ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Spatial planning - sustainable development'. I propose, after completing the list of speakers remaining and the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, that the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives be placed on the amendments. If there is a question - and he asks - a Member of Parliament should speak on the amendments, we will see that. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. Consequently, Mr Gregos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, before my colleague begins, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u4	Wait a minute, Mr. Grego. Here you go, Mrs Manolaku.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u5	We have two requests to the Chair. Firstly, the Minister must tell us which parliamentary amendments are accepted. If one of those accepted is some of those relating to another Ministry, we ask that the relevant Minister be present, to clarify the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u6	It will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u7	Secondly, the ministerial amendments are too many. That means we ask for tolerance from the Seed in the time it will give us to talk. At least the people we are voting against understand why we are voting against, to have the minimum time to substantiate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u8	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, when will the rapporteurs speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u10	As we said at the outset, once the list of speakers has been completed, the rapporteurs will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u12	Here you go, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, there's something embarrassing going on here. The bill has seventeen articles and so far nineteen amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u14	Thirty-seven amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u15	The House is to become a laundry of the incapacity of the SYRIZA Government. We cannot accept it. We want the Bureau of the Greek Parliament to protect the parliamentary procedure in a fundamental way. We, as a parliamentary group, have a total reserve for how to react to this humiliation of the national Parliament. The amendments cannot be brought to a chasm by an hour. I am sure that until our meeting is over, we will see further amendments by the government. It is incomprehensible that the amendments should be more than the articles in the bill! I repeat, we want the Bureau of the Greek Parliament to protect the dignity of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Maniotis, as you know, the problem is chronic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u17	No, it's not chronic, Mr. President. We're not going to balance everything. It's not chronic at all. He's taken scandal dimensions with that government. If the previous government dared to bring two amendments out of procedure, it would go up on the benches. And now "mug in the hump"! They are also responsible for SYRIZA's colleagues. It's not just the government's responsibility. That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Maniotis, you didn't let me finish. I repeat that the problem is a timely one, with outbursts and revolts. That's undeniable. Of course, now there is an outburst. I have the impression that all parties, not just the Democratic Reconciliation, must be consulted with the Government, and of course the Bureau will take a position. But, above all, it concerns all parties, not just one party. I therefore think it is the best way to reach a consensus, in a way, between the parties, the government and the Bureau, to find the gold incision. Because this problem, I repeat, is chronic. Other if there are any outbursts and blooms of the phenomenon. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u19	I think we will all agree that this is a process that we must avoid. But there are two facts and I wonder that Mr Maniotis speaks with so much tone. In the previous years, before the SYRIZA government, the statistics on the latest bills, before the House closes for Christmas, are vague at your expense to revolt with these tones. I can provide you with the statistics on the amendments that you have tabled for the two-three years in which you participated in the government, which, I repeat, are incomprehensible against you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u20	I'll ask you to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u21	So your intensification is too much based on data. The second is that in this bill, we have also warned ourselves from yesterday in the debate, there will be very much amendments which, in their overwhelming majority, are procedural amendments. In other words, these are issues which arise from the closure of time by 31 December and there are various ministries where regulations need to be made. We have warned all three - four important amendments that want a special debate and a special treatment and concern the implementation of some of the amendments agreed in the context of the second assessment. We warned about that. They facilitate the process to complete the second assessment to which the government is committed to progress. So I recap, tension is based on statistical data too much. Secondly, there are procedural issues, as the last bill by 31 December, of secondary importance, which simply require a wider consensus. We can't help it. Thirdly, there are three or four topics which will be discussed in today's sitting, which are emanating from a framework of agreements that have been concluded and which need to be established, particularly for product markets.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u22	Minister, I have listened carefully to what you have said. As I said before, the phenomenon has outbursts and revolts. Now we will not judge when the outbreak is and who is to blame for the upheaval or recession. But I have the impression that there must be a mutual debate and understanding so that the gold incision can be found, because once this debate is over another party will bring the same topic to the next bill. I apologise, Mr. Grego, for keeping you up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u24	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, the Minister continues not to tell us which parliamentary amendments he is accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u26	He'll say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u27	But we'll be done in an hour, Your Honor. And that's not all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u28	Ms. Manolakou, he'll say it. He hasn't spoken yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u29	Mercy! I have another question to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u30	Mrs Manolaku, please, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u31	Do you intend, until voting time comes, to bring in more?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u32	Well, he doesn't know that. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor, but not after the debate, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I want to be clear, as a representative of the Democratic Alliance, to this House. First of all, let the Minister answer the JRC's question. Can they bring us more? I asked this question before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u34	He'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u35	Secondly, my Minister, if I understood well from your documentation, you tell us that you are no worse than the bad guys who had sold everything out. So is it a comparison for you that you are no worse than the previous ones? And thirdly, please, since the Minister has come prepared and tells us that this has been the case in previous years, to present to us now the statistics he has and to prove that in the last bill of 2014, for example, or 2013, the amendments - the ministers, please, not the parliamentarians - were more than the articles in the bill that was being discussed. I repeat, we reserve our parliamentary reactions to the government's attempt to make the SYRIZA - ANEL incapacity parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u36	I would ask that we continue with the process and do not keep up with it. Mr. Grego, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. It is not only excessive that the number of amendments tabled in each bill is also what many of these amendments, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen of the government include. Because it often poses a risk of corruption and of duplication in some of these amendments. This is more important than the number of amendments. So in the shadow of the insults and blackmails of our so-called partners, who once again humiliate the Minister of Finance and the government, this bill will also be passed. These threats will be transformed into works from 1-1 to 2017 by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and then followed up. We are talking about forests and forests, and saints who have been imprisoned by great-speakers and contractors, forbidding access to them. There are really palaces in forest land, belonging to some who are not caught by the law, as you know, and who, although there have been too many latest technology machines - swimming pool machinery, expensive furniture, sports facilities and all kinds of recreational facilities - never, ever, ever, ever arrived a bulldozer - and only one - in order to demolish these arbitrary ones. In rare cases where some fines have been imposed in these arbitrary cases, they have been settled in an inflated bag that closed the mouth to many responsible and unauthorised officials. It is truly tragic that our cities have become monstrous, unlike the historic centres of other cities in Europe, with the first teaching of what some call a nation ruler. Unfortunately, there are many mayors who continue to destroy and degrade the cities and thus the lives of their inhabitants. We have asked many questions at parliamentary level on all these issues. And the Golden Dawn has clear positions and proposals on these issues. With this draft law to be adopted, it is attempting to regulate issues relating to spatial planning and sustainable development and to regulate other issues of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. Here I have to say to you that, if you continue the memorial policy and the policy of uncontrolled illegal immigration imposed on you by your Brussels bosses, there will be no generations of Greeks to benefit from this development that you mentioned, if you ever manage to achieve it. In essence, what you are doing is once again to incorporate part of the Community's institutional framework into Greek legislation. And I have mentioned many of the fact that the Golden Dawn is firmly against this practice, since it believes that the peculiarities of our country require a purely national policy in the field of spatial planning. Indeed, as you yourself admit, and this draft law is essentially a Memorandum of Understanding, since, as the Minister responsible, Mr Stathakis, the government, after a year - supposedly - of tough negotiation, as you say, has come to an agreement to amend No.4269/2014 with the draft law: 'Spatial planning - sustainable development'. As you yourself say, the purpose of the draft law is to improve territorial legislation in order to create legal certainty in order to attract investment and substantially reduce time by simplifying planning levels and administrative procedures for the establishment of the extended planning. This institution extends to three levels, as you say, the national, regional and local. As far as the bill is concerned, we say, for example, that the members of the national planning council are being reduced from twenty-one to nineteen. The position of the President is now defined and the current Executive Committee repealed. Here we must stress - and this is very important - that we strongly disagree with the participation of two NGOs in the National Planning Council, which will be selected by the Minister for the Environment and Energy in accordance with the criterion of representativeness, no matter what that means. We stress in all respects that we are the first to want the complete protection of the natural environment of our country, first and foremost for ideological reasons, because people's nationalism has an ecological aspect, but, secondly, because we live from this natural environment and partly in it. But the role of most environmental NGOs could at least be termed anti-national. We see his interventions in the implementation of the Pyrgos - Alexandroupolis pipeline, a project that would be of the utmost national and strategic importance for our country, as it would ensure de facto the eastern borders of our country. More specifically, in Article 3 you refer to the national spatial strategy, namely, at the end of the article you mention that the national spatial strategy depends on economic circumstances and programmes that run at the time. In other words, it is highly dependent on the wishes and directions given by Brussels. So, here you can't talk about any national spatial strategy. We are also opposed to the fact that we have not seen any real will in the past few decades to deal with policing and decentralisation of the population. We also do not agree with'may'. This is not binding on the nature of the relevant article with regard to the content and actions of the national spatial strategy. In Article 6, it states that there will be no Regulatory Plan for Thessaloniki and that the relevant provisions will be incorporated in the regional planning framework. We believe that, beyond Attica, the Thessaloniki co-chair should also have a Regulatory Plan, due to its size and particular economic and national importance, and not simply be part of the territorial framework of Central Macedonia. With regard to the reference to the maximum rates of construction, we believe that, apart from the conditions and the limitations of construction, there should also be rules of an architectural nature to address the chaotic situation in residential areas - and not just - areas. In Article 10, we come to emphasise the issue of essential decentralisation, which is of course not achieved by rebuilding areas around the big cities, but only by providing radical incentives to deal with policing and the development of regional towns or settlements. The most important issue of spatial planning and sustainable development in Greece, unfortunately, is in chaos, since the government in question changes the relevant provisions that do not apply most of the time. On the one hand, there is the view that development at any cost, even environmental, outweighs environmental protection and, on the other, there is the idea of protecting everything in the natural environment at any cost. The issue must be raised on completely different and much more radical basis, so that there is as much harmony as possible between the economic development of our country and the protection of the environment. Technology and knowledge in this area are available. The efforts of the governments concerned so far to achieve this balance we have referred to have killed mainly because of bureaucratic obstacles or the lack of political will. In order to have a modern spatial planning in our country, the particular factors that characterize it at geographical, economic, social, political, cultural and ecological level must be taken into account. It takes a clear target to demarcate the different areas. We are talking about areas of tourist development and areas of urban interest. Finally, Mr President, we believe that this bill, in addition to a Memorandum of Understanding that you have entered into, is both ineffective and ineffective. I wish, because of the days, to the Greeks a merry Christmas and a good freedom in our enslaved homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u38	Mr Constantopoulos from the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, the government brings to the House a bill with the urgency procedure, for which of course there has been no dialogue with the relevant bodies that are going to implement it. You have simply put it in a duplicate consultation ten days for the eyes of the world. You have even suddenly asked the parties concerned to present their views in eighteen hours, without being prepared. What do I describe? It's just cuffy. He asked the TEI to postpone the vote so that they could make a better contribution to its formation. What did you do to them? You ignored them. You obviously regard the competent bodies as decorative, which is unthinkable for such a key bill. You want to build a spatial planning framework of the country to attract investment to speed up administrative procedures and reduce administrative burden. The aim is to make it easier and legally secure for investors. But on such a serious issue you have kept all the relevant bodies on the margin. However, today you are changing spatial and urban legislation, the way in which projects, infrastructures, buildings and others can be made in the country and the competent scientific bodies do not take the floor to testify to their views and experience. He stressed the TEI that the Land register and forest maps, as the most developmental projects, must be preceded by all others. What did you do? You ignored and ignored them, and they will implement the relevant laws. Gentlemen of the government, you have no design. There's no seriousness. The country is wasting time and is getting away from growth, because the government is failing to rule. In conclusion, you abolished a law which was not implemented because of the government's failure, secondly, because of the government lost twenty-two months to prepare the country's spatial planning framework. As a result, the bill you are bringing today, Mr Minister, has fundamental problems and even fragmentary nature. It cancels the tool of special spatial plans. It introduces a pre-authorisation procedure with a ministerial decision to amend terms, which of course are approved by a simple presidential decree. He said the Minister wouldn't increase bureaucracy. However, there is an increase in legal uncertainty. The entities argue that the investor’s uncertainty, the administrative burden for businesses and the time delays are increasing. Others spoke of further concentration of powers and responsibilities. But the essence, ladies and gentlemen, is that this is a problematic regulation. Regional spatial planning is being upgraded, at the expense of specialists, and they are being regulated until the establishment of a underlying regulatory planning, as you say. In other words, they are transformed into regulatory plans with an unknown duration, since for an area it can spend many years drawing up a local spatial plan. Let me point out here, of course, that with the provisions of the government's regional planning plans will be adopted by a presidential decree and under the responsibility of the central administration, which adds bureaucracy and requires more time. Third, those relating to the digitisation and electronic recording of institutional lines, information, terms and uses of land, Article 11 of Law 4269/2014, are repealed. It was an innovative tool, but it required concrete actions for its implementation. Your weakness, gentlemen, the impossibility of the government has prompted you to abolish it. Thirdly, there is no funding for planning, where the resources will be available. Fourthly, there is neither quantification of objectives nor time planning for the implementation of the national spatial strategy. Fifthly, you have dealt with the construction factors in the BIP and BEPE and in the business parks, I would say. There will be misinterpretations here. Gentlemen of the Government, have you considered the critical spatial planning of modern trends in the European civil system and, in particular, the growing social exclusion, such as the accessibility of SMEs, the changes in the role and functioning of rural areas, the uses of land, the many problems of transport and networking, the necessary development of our natural and cultural heritage? I guess not. You are talking about sustainable development and development inclusive. But as you are facing, gentlemen of the government, these concepts are empty concepts. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, does not bring about substantial changes in relation to current N.4269/2014, but only some amendments. However, it is not surprising how you face the country's development perspective. Now you have left behind the promises of the productive reconstruction of the place and you come to ash in the eyes of society, to make fun of the Greek people that you are interested in development. We saw your intentions, gentlemen of the government, in selling PPA to Chinese investors, divestment of PPC, blocking the property of Afantos in Rhodes as archaeological site, in the shipyard to DESFA with the Azeri SOCAR and the loss of 188m euros, in the landscape of absolute abandonment in Greek and its conversion to hot spots - soul refugee warehouses, without any plan for its exploitation. The fight against unemployment, which is the great bet and demand for all of us, finds no answer, when seventy-five thousand jobs are lost only from the Greek. Gentlemen, these are your works! The Greek people are no longer deceived. That is why we are voting against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too. Mr Skourletis has asked for the floor to support two amendments. One is a general figure of 875 and the other is a general number of 876. The amendment, with a general number of 876 and a special 104, refers to the retroactive effect of 1-1-2016 decisions on compensation for work overtime for first and second grade staff and for those legal persons. The other is Amendment No 875, and Amendment No 103, which deals with regional rent costs. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I will start with the amendment of a general number 875 and a special 103. As you have already mentioned, it concerns expenditure relating to the rental of buildings for contracts that have already expired, but which has de facto been extended. They did not have the right to carry out a new competitive procedure on the part of the regions. So we give them the opportunity to justify these costs and within two months to make a new competitive process. It concerns mainly school units and it is compulsory that this should take place within two months of the publication of the amendment. From there on, these amounts have already been budgeted by the regions and do not bring any expenditure to the level of the budget. The second amendment is by a general number 876 and a special 104, and it concerns overtime expenditure again. We are asking for this amendment to have retroactive effect from 1-1-2016. These are decisions that have already been made, but have not been taken within the statutory time provided for, and were then taken. It is, of course, the responsibility of the municipal and regional councils that these decisions may be considered valid and that this money may be provided for work. Mostly it concerns cleaning workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. We are moving on to the next speaker, Mrs Theopevette, from SYRIZA. Here, Mrs Theophevettus, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about spatial planning in relation to sustainable development. These discussions had started, as we have said in this Chamber since the late 1970s. Several institutional interventions have been made in terms of spatial planning, and I would say more importantly: No.1337/1983, but according to him or after his amendments, either the studies were not completed, whether there was an opportune implementation of regulations, or there was an overhaul of basic mechanisms for their implementation and support, and so they remained on paper. To a large extent, there have been interventions, more to cure housing problems than to provide a development perspective. Here, we should point out the lack of the most important tool for regulating the space, the National Stock Exchange, which I think has been completed and we expect to see it. In the context of this, then, we should consider why all these institutional arrangements did not have the required results and we should judge what was to be done. On this basis we are discussing the changes made to Law 4269/2014, which certainly need to be changed, especially in the structure of these three basic levels of spatial planning, namely at national level, at regional and local level, which are well known to all of us in general town planning. The national spatial strategy is the main tool for the formulation of land policy for sustainable development both at national and cross-sectoral level and for strengthening the coordinating role of regional spatial planning priorities and their central position in the planning system. What should be done is to establish a specific framework of principles and rules. In the meanwhile, therefore, a crisis, not only economic but also environmental - climate change I mean - and social - social inequalities that have been exacerbated by the crisis - there is the need for an integrated plan that will promote the plan for productive and social reconstruction that we are trying to achieve. I would also like to mention two amendments which I have tabled and which I think can be accepted by the whole House. The first concerns a well-known subject, facilitating the installation of systems and independent units that promote the energy efficiency of buildings and restrict energy poverty. This regulation, I think, needs to be made available to L.4342/2015 for the installation of regulatory, measurable energy or independent heating units. We have too many properties that are not adequately heated, the energy efficiency of the whole is reduced. I think we should be able - and in accordance with the European Union's directives - to be able to autonomously choose how it will heat up. The second amendment also concerns the islands from which I come, Kefalonia and Ithaca, but it also refers to many areas of our country. It is an exemption from the production of tax and insurance information to those affected by natural disasters, i.e. earthquakes, floods, fires, landslides. Too many of our fellow humans are entitled either state aid or rent subsidies or hospitality, because their first residence has been affected. It was established by prior regulation that this amount is inappropriate, but that tax and insurance information was requested. This regulation essentially clarifies what goes without saying, that these subsidies should not be subject to any confiscation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. We continue with Mrs. Thleritis, MP of SYRIZA. Mrs. Thalerite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, with little improvements, however, able to put an end to deregulation of spatial planning, but also to restore its pyramid very close to the pretext situation, namely 1999 - before, in other words, demolition of the entire institutional framework of 2014 - we are now bringing a bill that just comes to solve all these problems. As we all know, L.4229/2014 invented the special spatial plans, where with the location of productive business, it has enabled the legalisation of derogations from the medium-term programme. What are the main objectives of this draft law? Firstly, the concept of sustainable development is defined as a strategic objective for the spatial planning system. Secondly, the whole system of spatial planning is improved, with all these policies being implemented at different levels, namely at national, regional and local levels, gaining greater coherence, greater functionality and better coordination of sectoral, spatial and local policies. For this reason, the content of the national spatial strategy is reinforced, where it comes to restore, even partially, the lack of the general spatial framework. The role of the regional frameworks is also strengthened and the potential is to form the basic pillar of the spatial planning system. Thirdly, it improves the way specific spatial plans are incorporated into the general system of spatial planning. There is an improvement with what has been the case in the past. The main aim of this improvement is to strengthen legal certainty for investors, but by preventing the consolidation of a parallel design system, that is, this 'extraordinary arrangements', which has been in force throughout the entire previous period with regard to the 2014 law that I mentioned. Fourthly, ensuring the role and prestige of the National Spatial Planning Council as a body for social consultation. Let us look at why spatial planning is an important tool for achieving national and social economic objectives, for development and fair territorial organisation, but all of this, while respecting the environment. It is also a decentralisation tool, since it allows design and coordination to be designed and coordinated. Not just above, but below. This draft law, ladies and gentlemen, comes not only to improve the existing design system, as I said before, but to redefine what existing spatial planning tools are in place in the context of a broader and sustainable spatial development strategy. It's actually coming to improve legal certainty. In what way? Strengthening the national spatial strategy and making the coordination tool of regional local planning frameworks. This way, what's going on? The basic guidelines of our country's spatial organisation are ensured so that there is genuine coordination of the different levels of spatial planning and that contradictions and possible conflicts at the three levels of spatial planning are limited. Also, there is the possibility of long-term strategic spatial planning, i.e. having a long-term planning before us. In addition, mutual assistance between regional and specific spatial frameworks is ensured, with a view to promoting the coherence and quality of spatial plans and, finally, harmonisation with national and European programmes and economic and social development policies. In this same direction, the specific spatial frameworks which offer strategic directions enable business to be promoted, but - and this is very important - the protection of the cultural and natural landscape. We are planning and assisting investment, but not, as previously, under the protection of the cultural and natural landscape. In addition, it extends the scope of the specific spatial plans to include guidelines for large investment and establishes procedures for their effective implementation, such as the forecast for the content of such investments. She also sets schedule and evaluation. Secondly, it comes up to this chaos of the so-called fragmentation of the placement of economic, productive and generally investment activities, strengthening the content of the coordinating role of the regional spatial frameworks. In this spirit, the law enables regional spatial planning frameworks to have a regulatory role in order to avoid overlapping and conflict with specific spatial planning frameworks and to facilitate decisions at regional level. Upgrade the region to a primary pillar of the spatial planning system by coordinating and specialising the implementation of the specific spatial planning frameworks and offering spatial and urban planning guidelines to municipalities as well. It also enables municipalities to space themselves so that there is no such pluralism, and at the municipal level, it is possible to maintain the support of local exceptions with adverse effects on both sustainable development and stability to ensure investment. Thirdly, it solves the issue of the overlap of the first degree projects by identifying and distinguishing the different needs at each spatial level. In this context, local government is strengthened to develop an integrated spatial planning policy and thus support local development, but through a single local planning with definitions through local spatial planning plans and the four major categories referred to in Article 9. To conclude, with the fourth point, I would like to say that it also ensures the adaptability of all projects through flexible training and modification procedures, so that we do not have these time periods and so that we get enough time to implement them. So, in other words, this draft law comes to be an opportunity to finally enter a class in national spatial planning through the coordination and harmonisation of the different spatial frameworks between them and the country's social development programmes. Furthermore, to strengthen legal certainty with regard to investors, in order to move towards sustainable economic growth both locally and at national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of seventy unaccompanied refugees hosted in refugee accommodation structures in Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides]] Also, SYRIZA MP Mr Baltas Aristides asks for a short-day absence abroad from 21 December 2016 to 22 December 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u47	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Deputy Minister of Economy and Development will support the amendment by general number 838 "Transmission every one year of the date of entry into force of the provision on the registration of operations under the Sectoral Operational Programmes in a collective decision per operational programme". Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. This amendment amends paragraph 3 of Article 27 of L.4314/2014, in which the law in the context of simplifications of procedures provided for a single collaborative project decision, i.e., per operational programme. This provision seems at first sight to lead to a simplification of procedures, but as I will explain, this is a provision which has not taken into account the public accounting system and the payment system as a whole of the Greek State, especially the Directorates-General for Finance of the Ministries. At the moment it is impossible to implement the one collective project decision per operational programme, since according to public software, each Minister is authorising the appropriations of his own Ministry. Obviously, the logic of simplification finds us fully in agreement with this and we have set up a working group of representatives of the Ministry of Institutional Support of the CFO, as well as of the European Commission's Structural Reform Agency. This group has already provided its first delivery with simplifications of procedures, which have been reflected in the provisions of Article 72 of Law 4443/2016, by downloading signatures for a number of administrative acts at lower hierarchical level in the Ministry. The same group is currently working on the simplification of CSR, project collective decisions, in order to propose a simplification procedure that can actually be implemented, implemented within the general institutional framework of public accounting and, of course, taking into account the competences and specificities of each ministry. If today we decided to apply the specific provision provided for in L.4314, since the projects co-financed by the Sectoral Operational Programmes have been included in many different collective project decisions by all the ministries, we would have to make a great deal of progress in the scanning process, which would have involved the annual budget limits for the ministries, which, as you can see, would have caused a great turbulence. Significant steps have already been taken to simplify the procedures of the Public Investment Programme. Already from a project-by-project system, many accounts in each AAR, we are ready to proceed to a payment process with one account per project collective decision. The relevant consultations with the Bank of Greece have also been made in order to make all the adjustments necessary to make progress in the safe implementation of this new system as soon as possible. However, this is a significant change, which requires changes in both the Bank of Greece and the integrated information system, the ESDP system and the operation of the Ministries' Directorates-General for Finance. Of course, the implementation of the RIS project, which will simplify and automate a number of procedures, the electronic, i.e. a payment system for the Public Investment Programme, is also under way. It is therefore imperative to extend the proposed extension by one year of the deadline for the implementation of the system of simplification of the procedures of project collective decision-making, ESAs, per operational programme of the co-financed programmes of the ESRB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. Mrs Triantafyllos Maria, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this legislation is to redefine the strategy for spatial planning, with a view to sustainable social and environmentally just development. In Greece so far, what did we have? We had fragmentary actions. We had no integrated development plans for local communities. We had pharaonic works. How far are these pharaonic works from our late, almost hinting way of our own relief and our own place? We had pharaonic works, therefore, with very little rewarding benefit, which was not part of a specific local or central design. We had no thought of what kind of growth and perspective we chose to give to the different regions of our country, on the basis of their advantages. We had no vision. I mean a vision that would be based on the national and the people's interests. We have had a conflict of interest and there is no cooperation between the various levels of administration. Polynomial, fragmentation and anarchy. Like the pope's forgiveness was the pluralism of legalization and exceptions. This was the framework within which both the central and regional authority perpetrated their status. Design of lawlessness with a toolbox, bureaucracy and customer rule. What did that do? There has been a gradual, but also a constant depopulation of the spatial strategy at national level, an unbalanced and heterogeneous enlargement of the Athens town complex and, indeed, without the basic principles and procedures being observed here to ensure long-term and sustainable development. Political decision was to scan the villages after the civil war, cutting people off from roots and production. What's left of us? What can one say? The abandoned Olympic projects, the absence of infrastructure to serve the social community as a whole, the dense structure and the inhumane living conditions, the disinvestment, the abandonment and the non-use of public property. Even from the region, a region mostly without basic infrastructure, without vision, lacking in investment projects, which lacks quality jobs, which is lacking in cooperation with the central government, which is lacking in organised and effective interventions and lacks a coherent and rational plan that gives prospects and justice. At the same time, many policies have been consecrated by the rhetoric of regional development, decentralisation, but tragically, when these actions have been reviewed and in many areas, not only in the area of education, but also in the area of education, for example. Is it just the rationality and consistency of planning? Oh, no. Spatial planning and sustainable and fair development should also be the subject of broad consultation of societies. A coherent plan is implemented more effectively when it distracts the consent and approval of bodies, scientists, youth and citizens. This must also be an option for this government. There was a great deal of mention in the previous bill and, as always, there was a review that was lame. You have to decide whether in relation to the previous bill, this brings about significant changes or just modifications, which is what happens. The previous bill was a problem bill, it did not work with pending decisions. You're defending it as developmental. In my view, however, there are two negative points: the first is that it generalised the offshore construction. It is a catastrophic structure and extremely expensive, without planning, and it is a strategy of the post-war state to ensure from one cheap labour and from the other to control popular classes. The second negative point of the previous bill is that instead of productively energising the non-active rural land, turning it into plots or trying, creating parallel settlements next to existing declining settlements and losing de facto rural land. I wonder about the Opposition and the Census and the rest of it: What are you defending? Everything's on the wrong side. For today's draft law, I would like to highlight three points. Priority shall be given to national planning at central, regional and local level and divided into two levels: Firstly, in strategic spatial planning, which falls within the specific spatial frameworks, which, as often as the Minister says, are not abolished, but are in a different context, exist, but with different content, you do not understand that. And secondly, in regulatory spatial planning, to which the local plans fall. In this way, it is attempting to eliminate conflicts, inefficiency and the absence of coordination of the central administration with the regional and local authorities. Really, why has this been happening all these years? Why was the effort of common placarding for all these years lacking? Why was it so difficult for the local authority to reach agreement on sustainable spatial planning? Why did we have plans and projects, even contradictory to each other? To exterminate what interests were they acting? It's worth to ask. However, it was not just incapacity or the absence of will or even that customer logic. There have been huge private interests that have speculated and are still speculating under this seemingly incompetent. Not all individuals are innocent, like not all politicians are innocent. Finally, in my view, the image of cities reflects a country's situation, economic, political and, above all, its cultural situation, its historic path. The concept of dwelling means that I am involved in social life. We therefore need a very important cultural approach to housing, space, in terms of the quality of everyday life. We need to deepen the urban approach today. It takes the city, the space, to be saved and recovered from the citizens. It's a right to life. Furthermore, the need for central planning, in line with the capacity for productive reconstruction, is obvious. And that cannot be achieved without control. It is therefore necessary to turn social consciousness from the benefits and restore collectively, collectively as co-responsibility and not as corporate discipline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u51	Mr Saridis, Parliamentary Representative of the Centroon Union, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall also use my dentistry. I will not go into the bill, it has been covered by our rapporteur, Mr Georgiadis. I will talk about the amendments, which are too many. I do not know whether my second language will reach me to cover the amount of the amendments. You will allow me to begin by making a statement. The dignity of the government in Macedonia has not yet arrived. It's stuck somewhere in Tempus, maybe a little down the street, but in Macedonia it hasn't arrived. And to be clearer, I say this and why Mrs Fotou said that the government may not have any money to give the citizens, but has the dignity and she gives it to the citizens as a left-wing government. I heard this statement from Mrs Fotio on the radio in my attempt to obtain information on the non-payment of some funds in the regions. My first reaction, to be honest, was that Mrs. Fotou was probably making fun of me, too. This is because, for the money I was looking for, because they had been delayed in giving the regions, it was Mrs Fotio herself who was responsible for paying that sum. In fact, at the same time as Ms Douros, the District of Athens, had taken all this money, the Region of Central Macedonia has not taken it and at the moment we are talking about it has not yet been taken. I cannot understand the difference between one region on the other, that is to say, whether we are talking about the same area or whether we are talking about two different areas. If we now consider that this money was intended to meet the needs of all the prosperous institutions of Macedonia and that people who depend on it live every day on human impoverishment and teach humanity, then the size of mockery is evident. These people face with dignity, daily, the results of the crisis in Greek society. Why should these people fight if the state thinks about them? Let the government look at what each government must be consistent with and what comments, to be honest, about dignity, are of value when they come from people who know what it means. Let Mrs Fotio show us that she understands that decent people are at the moment talking in the air from her own omissions. I call for this step to be immediately paid to regions for pre-school institutions. And now on the amendments which we have today to consider in this Chamber. This is where the saying goes - if you saw the TV series 'Inadmissible' - 'What happened, guys?' Only then can we show the size of the amendments that are being tabled today in this Chamber and yesterday and all the time. So far I have counted nineteen amendments. I will try to cover this time, but also in my second language the subject of the amendments. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he is prepared to do so. 830: Adjusting themes of the process of transition to the ESCB and other bodies in the General Register of Social and Solidarity of Economy. Efforts to support effectively and in a substantial way, those who give a daily struggle to strengthen the country's economy, according to conservative, realistic estimates of two to three points of GDP. For such amounts, we are cutting off pensions and allowances. The social economy must cease to be a wish. The people don't pay us to be "happy," there are others for this job. We're for another job. And you're the government for an even more important job than ours. The wishes for the future of the country are here to implement them, to do them, to be able to look into the eyes proud of the world when we go out. The social economy must become the third pillar of the Greek economy. In this context, we consider it very normal to support this amendment, which gives the possibility and the necessary time to the members of the ESCB, who already offer work today, to decide on their own future, whether as a social and collective benefit or as workers' cooperatives. The big issue, however, remains open and, therefore, the dilemma that is presented in front of those who are now allegedly giving them choices is becoming extortion. What tax incentives do the COMIPs have? If we don't answer that we can't answer anything. Amendment under number 831: Amendment of paragraph 9 of Article 11 of Law 4430/2016. For the same reasons as we agree to allow the COMPAs, which were deleted from the General Registry, to be broken down or to continue as a private enterprise, either in breach of the provisions of Law 4430. However, their respective obligation to distribute what must be done where they are converted into a private enterprise. And in this amendment, for the same reasons, we say 'yes'. In Amendment No 838, which was mentioned earlier by the Minister, Mr Haritsis, we say 'yes'. The government's arguments regarding the one-year postponement of the date of entry into force of the provision of Law No.4314 concerning the registration of operations within sectoral operational programmes do not fill us with confidence in how the timescales of the country's obligations are managed, not with regard to the institutions, but with regard to itself. Amendment No 839. Mr Pappas has brought us the amendment. Filling up, he says, the provisions of n.e.c. 123 on the relevant Minister for Public Broadcasting. In this amendment we say 'no'. It seems that the government sometimes forgets some important functions when it legislates. This is normal and next, because of the way in which it deals with parliamentary procedures. It's a costly cost. In the bill with which the Minister became famous, he forgot the detail of who he is responsible, who is supervised by public television. This unacceptable amendment makes it clear, and is described in a short way, that he is responsible here for the matters of public service broadcasting and is responsible for supervising this, is the Minister, Mr Papapas, but as a Minister for Digital Policy now and not as a Minister of State. Amendment number 852. The amendment of provisions of Law 4402/2012 ‘redefinition of terms and conditions for the installation of green points’. We're in agreement. And we will also support the strengthening of the consolidation of recycling practices and the green points. I would like to pay particular attention to this very important amendment on green points and to address the Minister, Mr Famelos, and to remind him of every tone that if the Greek Recycling Agency is not directly responsible for starting to operate for the first time normally, it will not change anything for the better, as far as recycling is concerned. There is no policy, Minister, no matter how good it is, unless there is a sufficient number of workers to support it. Today's leadership of the Ministry of the Environment must continue the work initiated by Mr Tsironis as Deputy Minister for the Environment, who has put in a series of efforts to strengthen the EEAN to defend the public interest and, of course, to protect the environment. All of this will fall into the void if there are no trivialities solved but dangerous bureaucratic obstacles that hold the board of the Greek Recycling Agency hostage. To help you today, I would like to ask you a question inviting you to commit yourself to a clear timetable for the staffing process of this agency. We cannot talk about green points and recycling, and the EEW can only be there for three people. In addition to this, I have two important questions in this respect, which are very specific, in the immediate interest of the services of the Ministry. Firstly, how do you ensure that, in the large green spots, citizens have access to and not to professionals? If this doesn't clear, we can't achieve anything. Secondly, the small green spots from where they will be financed? Is there any provision to be financed from the ESRB programmes? Minister, the economic and ecological crisis is a transporting vessel. You are in the unique place to do at the same time good in the environment and good in the economy. You'll find us allies in this effort. I would like to close my position at this stage and return to the amendments by referring again to an amendment by the same Ministry and Minister, Amendment No 858,'modifications to legal persons who can carry out energy inspections'. You once heard 'OECD toolbox' and explained to your voters that this phrase is equivalent to the phrase 'Capitalist toolbox for liberal torture'. But today, on Christmas Eve, you are telling us the arguments that these have long been put at the table of the country's choices, but you are just now and in accordance with the urgency procedure, in fact, choosing to adopt. Of all the options you had, you intervened in a specific speciality, that of the energy inspector, correcting your own law that you just voted on. But the I'm going to continue my position in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme of "Kappotistry" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, eighteen students and students and two teachers from the 1st Grade of Spata. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Tourism Minister Koudoura will support the amendment under a general number 862 ‘Public Procurement Provisions of Law 4412/2016’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is Amendment No 862/90, which comes to ensure that the legal framework is properly applied. It's pretty much. That's what I'm stressing. Law 3270/2004 covers precisely commercial and co-production. It is simply done to serve the services of a legal person governed by public law of the EOT, who needs to take a suggestion from the independent authority every time. In order to take this recommendation, therefore, they have given us the advice to go further than this, which clarifys that the association and co-production as agreements, concluded following acceptance by the legitimate Greek Tourism Organisation of an invitation from a natural or legal person to implement a proposed joint promotional energy for the promotion of Greek tourism, do not constitute a public contract, as described in Greek law, but a special form of cooperation, in which no services are provided by the natural or legal person to the Greek Tourism Organisation - EOT. It is therefore a particular form of cooperation, concluded at the initiative of a special invitation from a natural or legal person who finances and implements, with his own money, the joint promotional action proposed by the EOT. The EOT is also invited to co-operate, partly covering the costs of implementation. It simply clarifies this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too. We shall proceed with the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u58	Will Mrs Conordou come and defend her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u59	He'll be here. Here it is. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr. Diaras, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, too many amendments have obviously been tabled, as the Minister has rightly said, because it is the end of the year. It is a phenomenon that we do not like, but unfortunately it is necessary. They are also supported, since they are accepted by the relevant ministers. Unfortunately, we can't do any different. I shall refer to my dear colleague, Mr Skreka, because he has also made reference to my report. I will tell him, although I appreciate it, that there are serious ideological differences, differences that an economist has with a right-wing neo-democrat. What does an economist want from the bill? He wants more protection of nature. It wants to take care of instruments for sustainable economy and sustainability. It needs a coherent and sustainable society, which means more justice, more democracy. And what does New Democracy want today? It's a soft institutional framework, investing. We also want investment to be made, but with a framework that protects the environment, nature, historical and cultural heritage. And it will protect it completely and not loosely, because we know that in our country the exceptions are the rule, and the rule is not applicable. Avoid, Mr Screka, to refer to the points in my report, which say why we have arrived here. And you avoided doing so while I had specific references to the five-year New Democracy 2004-2009 that brought us to the crisis, to bankruptcy, to the memoranda and to the comitology, that is to say, to the causes of the compulsory compromises that we agreed to make. The figures I mentioned are official and undeniable. In the five years of the New Democracy, 120 billion were added to the public debt. Of these, over 50 billion were the primary deficits covered by new loans. With the EUR 50 billion and several dozen billion from European programmes in the five-year period of New Democracy, instead of having an increase in production, we had a reduction of 28% in the primary sector, agricultural production, fisheries, etc. We also had at the same time 33% reduction in the secondary sector. That is not what you mentioned, even though I mentioned it in my report. On the contrary, you indicted me negatively, because I was against fast tracks. I, too, am opposed to the fast track of investments, because they circumvent environmental protection legislation. That is why I mentioned negatively, and I know, of course, that these investments are necessary today and we are bound by laws and memoranda and we cannot do anything else. However, we can only ideologically say that we have not accepted these and would not have been in a left-wing and ecology plan these counties, if we had not reached the process of the memorandums. I would also remind you that in the five years of New Democracy, which I described and which led us to the crisis, we had a nominal growth of 4% a year, while at the same time sharing the reduction in production, we had 6% a year. Therefore, nominal GDP growth without conditions of viability has no value and rather expresses consumerism from credit and not a real and robust economy. That's the difference between ideology and ideology, Mr. Screka. So the need for the country to not collapse has been compromised and things will come in that are outside the plan of Ecology and the Left. The memorials and divestment from the need for basic infrastructure of the Greek State were not part of such a programme under normal conditions, not because we have obsessed and idealism, but because it is contrary to a viability plan that would serve the interests of the Greek people and, above all, young people in the present and future. That does not mean that we will be inconsistent in agreements, which we have signed, and we will do what the economy needs to get ahead. We really differ and have a goal gradually to regain our economic independence and not to surrender to the globalisation of the multinationals. In particular, it is not necessary for the country to implement the demands of the major investors for unregulated development with disasters in the natural environment. We want entrepreneurs who will invest in the country, respecting and protecting the environment. The policy of the unconscious market, linked to the right, is well known. First, the chips distributed the land to plots of plots without urban planning. Then the arbitrary buildings were built, and then the area joined the city plan with the existing infrastructure and, in fact, when the townscaping came, it had nothing to do but to implement the existing situation. Warlord was finally the chip, who defined and separated his land into small parcels. So who are those who have moved for so many decades and who have excavated the chaos of planning and town planning? And I'm making a reference to the dictatorship. The forced law of the dictatorship of 1968, which I experienced - I was a student - gave those incentives for anarchist construction, because here we saw some extreme right-wings appear as economists. If the dictatorship continued for a few more years, we would have made it from a urban point of view as the negative example of Europe, which is the coast of Spain. From the discourses of the opposition, there has been no substantiated question of the fundamental changes brought about by the bill, that planning should be done at levels such as the administration of the country, national, regional and local level. I want to report to the KIC's dear friends. They're negative what we're going to do. But what do we do until we get to the ideal society that everyone has in mind? And it's not all monochrome. There are shades in both red and grey and green, but in fact, we cannot expect the ideal society that everyone has in mind, but we must design conditions today that industry, these businesses, these citizens, how they will behave in this area, called Greece. I have also got a reference to the rapporteur for the PASOK Democratic Association. It directly questioned the structure of the three levels, claiming that the specific national spatial planning plans covered the national level and that TAP investments would be delayed by national spatial planning. I know that in this bill, which we brought, conditions of ecology and the environment were introduced that were not in the previous bill. In Article 1, in definitions, sustainable development and the protection of the natural and cultural environment have been introduced. In Article 3 for the National Spatial Strategy, but also at local level, axes are being introduced. The first axis is sustainable development and networking of the national area. The sixth axis is sustainable development of subsections of the national area with particular emphasis on marine, island and coastal areas. Uh, so you didn't find these positives, at least the environmental, ecological, to support them? The rapporteur of the Central Association spoke as if he did not hear my suggestion, that Article 24 of the Constitution gives the power of planning and town planning to the state. Therefore, this competence cannot go to the regions and municipalities. Nevertheless, we have put in the law, in the relevant article that the regional planning framework is being developed under the supervision of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, after informing the region concerned, and under the supervision of committees that did not exist in the previous law. In addition, approval of the regional planning framework requires the advice of the relevant regional council, which is provided within two months. So we've given all the space to self-government that he could get under the constitution. We also know that local spatial plans are on the initiative of the municipalities. So what the Opposition could get didn't get it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Nine good proposals have been tabled by my colleague Mr Mavrotas from the river. Mr. Mavrota, as far as I've contacted the minister's partners, five of the nine proposals were reasonable and joined the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u62	We are therefore open to dialogue to improve the bills, provided that the proposals are concrete and are not just complaints, because then neither a composition nor a national plan will be made. We will make plans, which the House will vote on at one stage and the other will come and dismiss them. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. I call on everyone to vote on this bill, because it really does not radically change the previous law, but in the context of what was in the promises of the memorandum, we did what could be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Skreka, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, the honourable Member, Mr Dimitras, expressed some personal views. But I should say, Mr President, that personal views do not always match truth and truth. In fact, we have seen too many times heard from members of your party, SYRIZA, and from members of your government, and opinions and statements, which, after all, are not only true, but are also in the opposite direction and on the opposite side. Of course, I understand and understand your attempt to justify the fact that you are bringing a law that, as we have said, and as you have agreed, is not a radical reform, but about 90%, 95% is a reproduction of Law 4269, the law passed by the New Democracy, supported by PASOK, in 2014. Of course your version has, unfortunately, some fundamental changes that change character. These changes may be small in size, only 5%, but they change overall the character and role that this bill has to play. But you mentioned some statements that I would not like to leave them in the light of what the New Democracy stands for. You called it New Democracy, you called it Right, you didn't say it on the right. You've unfortunately re-enacted statements of biscuit...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u65	I'll say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u66	Here, my colleague from PASOK is rushing to defend you. I do not know why we have been seeing this convergence lately, but I want to say that these statements had long been heard in the Greek Parliament and I am impressed by you, an open mind, as you really are. I believe you have made a mistake in this attempt. You said that the New Democracy does not love the environment, does not love the sustainable economy and sustainability. I would like to say to you, Mr Caramanlis, and to all my fellow Members, that the New Democracy - and I can also give you its founding declaration in 1974 with the leader and founder of the Constantine Karamanlis party - has been talking about a social market economy since then, it has been talking about a sustainable economy and sustainability and, indeed, of a strong development with environmental protection. And if you want to look back a little bit, because you love nature, I want you to study historically what those branches, which established the national parks and protected the country's forests and mountains. Who were they? Were they left-wing, centre-left? Or were they the centrelines, the New Democracy? The New Democracy and the centrelines have founded and installed the definitions of the national parks, and at the moment we have forests that we may not have. With regard to arbitrary construction, do you know very well when it was ejected, when was the phenomenon of arbitrary construction increased? It was not of course from 1974 to 1981. He was right after that. You remember that Tritsis had been forced to bring law, so that he could legitimise the arbitrary, the construction of which had been built since 1981. Why are you blaming New Democracy and even blaming it for 2004-2009? You don't like this five-year-old. Of course, you may differ from some colleagues who belong to this area. You said, for example, that the primary sector decreased by 28% and the secondary by 32%, but you must actually read the numbers. In absolute figures the production of agricultural products increased in five years 2004-2009. Their participation in the overall economy has been reduced because other sectors, such as the tourism sector, have increased much more, as was perhaps processing. Other sectors, therefore, have increased much more, much faster than the primary sector and for this reason its participation has declined. But I want to tell you that the New Democracy is the party and the party that over time tells the truth in the world. This is sometimes considered positive and is voted in favour. Unfortunately, in the last thirty years, from 1981 onwards, thirty-six years ago, it has been a few times compared with the rest of the government. The small percentage of 20%, 30% ruled by the New Democracy. 70 percent ruled a centre-left party. That's the reality. The New Democracy tells the truth over time and will tell the truth and will wait for the Greek people, who are now politically disciplined by your own poor efficiency rule, to judge it. Today you offer a project to the Greek people as SYRIZA and as ANEL. You're practicing the Greek people politically so that they don't believe any more lies, so that she won't get shot with demagogues again. You discipline him. Do you really produce a spectacular political work towards the Greek people, by a difference, that the price is too hard and that the weak ones are paying for it, especially those who lost the CSCE, those who have paid taxes, those who have increased their contributions, those to whom the heating oil subsidy has been reduced, those who are unemployed and who have increased in November, from what we have seen? Unfortunately, they pay this price of political discipline, which would otherwise be very good if they did not have that very expensive price, which the Greek citizen feels in his mind. So I would like to say a few things about the bill in terms of the articles of the bill, because we will not have time to do so. For Article 7, local villages. The content of the local spatial plans, which will include the definition of the spatial development and organisation model, as well as the total land use, terms and conditions of construction, shall be partially amended. You define as rapporteur for the approval of the relevant department of the Ministry of Environment and Energy with the corresponding opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. At the same time, there is no mention of the permitted uses, leaving it to the Ministry's authority to approve it. Here is really a significant change in the definition as rapporteur for the approval of the relevant department of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy instead of the decentralised administration provided for by No.4269/2014. This is how you weaken not only local government of first and second degrees, but overall local government and transfer the burden of setting up to a central agency of the Ministry. Instead of moving towards decentralisation, you are moving forward - I told you beforehand my position - at a gathering. Thus, the central agency must monitor, approve and promote three hundred and twenty-five local spatial plans, which can arise from the respective cultural municipalities. That is a matter. Why are you doing this? Please, the Minister very much explains us. Secondly, for the specific spatial plans, specific spatial plans for urban renewal programmes, environmentally important, programmes to address the consequences of natural disasters, are being set up at the same level of planning as local spatial plans, which, in fact, can and can be changed, and it is unclear whether regional spatial planning plans can also be amended. There is no reference to permitted uses, leaving it again in the judgement of the Ministry's office approving it and approved by a Presidential Decree. In the case of specific spatial plans, in cases where prior approval is granted for local spatial plans or residential control zones or other form of arrangements, a pre-study approval procedure is now provided for. We also told you in our previous report that it does not help at this stage of premeditating the premeditation of the premeditation of entrepreneurship, making it easier for an investor to come in and invest his money in Greece - a domestic or foreign investor - to create and recover and develop jobs and jobs. As regards Article 11, Article 11 of Law 4269 is repealed. Only the provision of the Legislative Committee for Encoding - standardisation of urban and spatial legislation is maintained. Article 11 referred to the digitisation and electronic recording of institutional information lines, terms and uses of land on the basis of existing geographical backgrounds, such as the Register. There's a big deal going on right now. There is an attempt to complete the Land register, which is a background, on which spatial planning lines, building or rhetoric could be captured. Why do you abolish this article and turn Greece into another era where maps are drawn up individually on the basis of what each service has? Why not take a background - we have it, the Register - and start using this? Why should every service take and run on its own maps, whether they are digitised or not, instead of taking the tool, which all of Greece should use at some point? Why are you doing this? Why are you turning Greece back for many years? Instead of modernising the institutional framework, you come back and return us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although there is much to do with the transitional provisions. I'd just like a minute. You're bringing in some transitional provisions. I am very grateful to the Minister responsible for coming and supporting them and explaining why you are bringing them. An example is that, in paragraph 1 of Article 15, the validity of old economic permits, which until the expiry of the licence, has been terminated by the building organisation, in order to allow for the completion of the eyes and roofs of the building, so that they can then be reviewed by Law 4030/2011. With Law 4067/2012 and Article 29, the validity of these authorisations was also extended. Why do you repeat, renew this extension? This extension means, finally, with the provision of Law 4030/2011 that these financial permits are extended indefinitely now. You can explain why you are doing this, so that we can understand it and agree or present our objections. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member relentlessly rings the doorbell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Furthermore, paragraph 2 shall also be extended until 31/12/2017 to the time limit for the issue of authorisations to carry out economic activities submitted, in accordance with the provisions of Law 1577/85, of the old financial regulation, and not issued within the time limits laid down. Why are you doing this? We're talking about licenses. Why have these building permits not been approved in a reasonable time? We're talking about 1985 law. Just explain to us what this is all about. Is it something photographic? Is that something that really needs to be done that helps growth? Explain it to us, so we can understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, too. Mr Arvanitides, a special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u68	Dear government rapporteur, you referred to me, but I honestly don't understand why. With the mayor's status in a critical environmental area many times I wondered about the words'sustainableity','sustainableity'. I was a mayor somewhere in the west of Thessaloniki, having steel, oil, Ramsar treaty, organized industrial area, unorganized industrial area in Kalochori. And I made the mistake of wanting to solve spatial issues. I was trained twenty years and even the ratification of the General Urban Plan, which concerned the Kalochori region, is in the air. And I remember once with my friend the Minister of State, Mr Famello, seeking sustainability and sustainability to work together for hours in my office to place a business that was at another level environmentally and would solve the huge problem because of the reconstruction of the demolition by-products, the well-known balls, in order to make a modern investment in order to make products that we can use on the road. We were therefore trained unlimitedly to put it in place, but unfortunately we both failed. The investment was made, of course, after a couple of years, but not where it had to be done. We found it somewhere, anyway! I say these because many times, in search of sustainability, we have committed crimes, in search of sustainability as well. As often on the left we are neoliberal and on the right we become prisoners. Let us all take this note, because the next level of dealing with the problems of the country is only going through national responsibility and cooperation. I would like to begin, as rapporteur, on the basis of the Minister's position yesterday, Mr Stathakis, who said that he does not understand whether we disagree with the bill because this bill looks like Law 4269, or whether we disagree because the bill brings significant changes to Law 4269. I shall therefore briefly repeat the reasons why the Democratic Reconciliation is voting against this bill. We are voting against for six basic reasons: Firstly, because you are abolishing a law which, under the responsibility of your government, has never been implemented without, in fact, disagreeing with its basic guidelines. Secondly, because we have lost two critical years, where we could have taken very important steps to complete the country's spatial and town planning. Thirdly, because you are weakening important development tools, such as specific spatial plans, with an extremely problematic pre-approval process, which will cost us both in time and in money. Fourthly, because on your own responsibility the country has turned back the status of land uses. Fifthly, why are you weakening the role of self-government in spatial planning? You oblige the municipalities to do local planning for the entire area rather than to the level of the old capodistrian municipalities, as is the right thing to do. For example, if the design in the old Municipality of Chalastra does not end, the design in the old Municipality of Echodorou, which has the most problems, cannot proceed. Sixthly, because you are abolishing significant possibilities of the previous law, such as the information system which enabled every citizen to be directly informed of where it can and cannot build or make an investment. It was a pilot project that had been implemented and you should extend it rather than abolish it. You said yesterday that the procedure for implementing each law does not end when it is passed by the House. Application means implementing, detecting weaknesses, correcting. You had two years to do all this and you didn't do anything. If you had done so, today we could discuss specific issues and not start over again. Also, I want to make a proposal for land uses. Bring a provision to the bill today, which will bind you in time. Bring a provision that expressly states that you are obliged, within a certain period of time, to bring the status of land use. Otherwise, every minister will come here and say he will do it and the job will never happen. Minister, I would like to ask briefly a few questions which I have put to the committee, but I have not received an answer. You spoke about improving the conditions for the applicability of spatial planning and urban planning. If we accept that there are partial problems, why didn't you bring points of change to Law 4269 and you chose to change the law as a whole? You spoke of a balance in the derogations, obviously with reference to specific spatial plans. As I said yesterday, more than twenty-five medium-scale projects had been submitted with this scheme from January to March 2005 for medium-scale investments between EUR 5 and 10 million. Were there any such clear derogations to these plans that prompted you to change the law? If there were, you can give us some examples, so that we can understand it. You also told us that the pre-approval mechanism does not increase bureaucracy, but creates legal certainty. If that were to be the case, how were twenty-five investment projects submitted in three months? You will allow me to tell you that the most important legal uncertainty that has existed is that the law has not been implemented. For two years potential investors have been hostages of the government. For two years the municipalities could not proceed with spatial planning. You also told us that the pre-authorisation mechanism does not replace the normal procedure. Consequently, it does not require the same number of studies. We therefore agree that the procedure of Law 4269 contained stages and control procedures. So why this new arrangement? I repeat: All you will achieve in this process is to charge extra delays and financial burdens to investors, without any obvious reason. Rethink this and withdraw this provision, so that you do not have to, as you have often had to, "do it - vote" in the future. Special Spatial Planning Council: Reduce members from twenty-one to nineteen. I also asked you in committee to explain why bodies such as the STEM, the ESRA and the Central Association of Chambers of Greece are excluded. Development: It is positive that both L.4269 and this bill recognise the need to link spatial planning to the country's development process. I would add that spatial planning should be horizontally linked to all government policies, particularly to see how we connect it to the co-financed national and regional programmes implemented by the ministries, public bodies and self-government. I now come to the question of the funds available. It is assumed that we will need significant resources to complete spatial planning on the ground, in a reasonable time horizon. It is important to tell us, Minister, whether or not there is an estimate of the total cost of this effort, as well as of the sources of funding from which you are considering raising these resources. As far as the articles in the second part of the bill are concerned, as I have told you in committee, we have no objection. It is also the only articles in the bill that we are going to vote for. I'm closing with the amendments. It is unacceptable that the amendments should be more than the articles of the law. I'll say a few words about some of them that we've been able to see. I repeat, however, that we will then determine our position. It is therefore positive that Amendment Nos 830/74 and 831/75 of the Ministry of Labour. These are legislative improvements to Law 4430, which the House recently passed on to the social economy. The first extension of the transitional period for the adaptation of the existing COMMDs to the provisions of the new law. The second amendment enables the solution of a COMECD, if deleted from the Social Economy General Register, because it has infringed the law. Amendment No 838/79 by the Ministry of Development also appears to be positive, although I must say that this is a typical example of rough legislation. A few days ago you set as the date of application on 1 January 2017 and you come today and ask for an extension of one year until 1 January 2018. On the contrary, it does not seem to be in the right direction, Amendment No 839/80 by the newly established Ministry of Digital Policy. There is no need for the Minister to have any more competence since public service broadcasting belongs to the Secretariat-General for Information and Communication. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want a minimum of time, Mr President. We are also opposed to Amendment 858 on energy inspections. We do not agree with the way you are bringing the regulation, because there is a risk of a balance being disturbed in the market at the expense of consumers. We are also opposed to Amendment No 859/87 on the marketing of petroleum products. You are able to allow IKE without facilities to have biofuels and liquid gas bottles, a provision which most likely refers to facilitating smuggling rather than the start of a legitimate activity and all that once you are supposed to fight to combat the smuggling of fuels. Finally, we are positive of Amendment 860/88 on the one-off aid to low-pensions, so that it cannot be seized for debts in public, insurance funds and banks nor be taxed. Thank you very much. Because we are at the last House sitting in 2016, I wish many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and three teachers attending the Achaea Dispatch School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Shahinides, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the amendments to the present draft law tabled, I do not want to be tiring and say what all of Parliament's wings have said. It is, in fact, unacceptable to table amendments that are more than this draft law, and at a time when we are in the last plenary session, which is very strange and wicked. After all, this is a common phenomenon, not only yours, but also the previous governments. Let us move on to the amendments. In Amendment No 830 and special 74, at no point in the explanatory statement you refer to the new forms of cooperatives and taking into account that in all the bills you have brought to the vote and using corresponding terms, you refer to illegal immigrants, Muslims and other religions in general, and you do not care about the genuinely vulnerable and vulnerable groups of Greek society. We're assuming you're talking about them now. You eliminate all your social sensitivity and fight to improve their conditions of life, but only foreigners who violated the Greek borders, land and sea, systematically violate the Greek legal order and still receive a specific immunity. You see disasters, attacks on islands, parts, and even on the structures in which they are hosted. We are voting against this amendment. As regards Amendment No 831 and Amendment No 75, following the previous paragraph, we are also voting against this because, even if it is not expressly mentioned, it is concluded by combining the provisions that are amended for the social groups in the previous amendment and, in particular, illegal immigrants. We are also voting against this amendment. In Amendment No 838 and special 79, it is extended by one year, i.e. from 01-01-2017 to 01-01-2018, the date of entry into force of the provision for the registration of operations under sectoral operational programmes in a collective decision per operational programme. That provision follows on from an amendment, incorporated as Article 72 of Law 4443/2016 on equal treatment, concerning the financing of projects that were part of the ESDP for the period 2007-2013 and their funding should now be made from national resources through the Public Investment Programme. In the preparation of that bill we had voted against, so on this basis we are also voting against this amendment. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'd be beg a little quiet. In Amendment No 839 and in Amendment No 80 we have a supplement to the provisions of Presidential Decree 123/2016 on the competent Minister for Public Broadcasting. Following the establishment of the new Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information is proposed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u71	Please, be quiet. It doesn't sound like the speaker. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u72	Following the establishment of the new Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, it is proposed that public service broadcasting be supervised. Public broadcasting does not offer objective information, as it was due, on the origins and goes hand in hand with governmental cheques, simply serving party interests. We are also voting against this amendment. With the amendment under number 852 and a special 81, the definitions and conditions for the setting-up of green points are given. The ‘green’ points are divided into small and large, depending on the volume and categories of recyclable materials they accept, the extent they occupy, etc., while they can be carried out public education actions. There are issues of placement of these facilities, as well as issues relating to the installation of mobile green points and recycling angles. Golden Dawn has specific positions for a model of waste management modern and environmentally friendly, which has as a priority the decentralisation of activities, the small scale, the encouragement of social participation, the exploitation of domestic production potential and, of course, the maintenance of public character in waste management. It is important to inform and raise public awareness of the sorting and recycling of waste. However, we are sceptical about the implementation of government plans, as problems are still arising from active landfills and the necessary measures have not been taken to ensure that workers are able to collect and manage waste. In this amendment we shall vote 'the present'. The amendment, with a general number 858 and a special 86, stipulates that energy inspections should be carried out not only by legal persons whose energy inspector is a member or partner, but also by those who employ active inspectors as employees. This extension of the possibility of carrying out inspections is in the wrong direction. The essential consequences at the practical level are that the conclusion of scientific conclusions will not be correct by non-certified officials who are misused to take the role of an energy inspector. We are voting against this amendment. In Amendment No 859 and in Amendment No 87, there are important provisions which change the licensing of fuel companies and their storage conditions, in a way that only fits in law after wide consultation. This amendment should come to a bill because it hides many strange things. Our proposal, and here it is against. The amendment, with a general number of 860 and a special 88, complements Article 65 of Law 4445/2016 on the national mechanism for coordination, monitoring and evaluation of social inclusion and social cohesion policies and arrangements for social solidarity and implementing provisions of Law 4387/2016, which was adopted only last week. With this provision, which under no circumstances solves the issue of bleeding into the realm of pensions, given that Law 4387/2016 abolished the CSCE and pension thresholds, the government is now trying to mold the low-pensions, but it has led them to impoverishment first. It is important, of course, to add duty-free and non-compensation to the debts already secured in the public or credit institutions for good reasons, although this should have been provided for in the previous provision. We are voting in favour of this amendment. In accordance with the amendment, with a general number of 862 and a special 90, in the case of commercialisation and co-production for the promotion of Greek tourism, the Public Procurement Act does not apply. In other words, the National Tourism Organisation will in this case be able to disburse funds to the media, without having the necessary control provided for by Law 4412/2016, and obviously the EOT will not proceed with the competitive process. The conditions as well as the economic and other conditions of cooperation will be established following a decision of the board of directors of the EOT and the approval of the Supervisory Minister, i.e. the Minister of Tourism. We are voting against it, but you should explain to us, Minister, what is the case with both of these?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u73	Of course I'll explain. Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u74	Let me finish my question. In the report of the General Accounting Office of the State and in paragraph 2, it states that the proposed provisions do not induce additional costs to the State budget and to the budget of the EOT, while in the explanatory memorandum to the second paragraph, it states that the activity is called upon by the Greek Tourism Organisation to co-finance part of the costs of implementation. Which one? The State General Accounting Report or Report? I continue with Amendment No 871 and specific number 99. The specific programme for the retraining, training and acquisition of professional experience for the benefit of former employees of the company ‘THRAKI SA’ is hereby extended. They are now employed in entities in the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace and in the Municipality of Alexandroupolis after the settlement of debt and credit balances for the implementation of the programme from 10-9-2009 to 31-12-2016 and their certification by the programme monitoring committee. The project shall be completed accounting and the guarantees by nature shall be returned to the institution which issued them. We are voting in favour of this amendment. Amendment No 872 and specific number 100. The provisions of Law 3028/2002 shall be supplemented and amended. The two articles contain amendments to Law 3028/2002 concerning the protection of antiquities and cultural heritage. Definitions of concepts shall be added, decentralised the authorisation procedure for the performance of an event or for the concession of the use of archaeological sites, historical sites, movable monuments or museums and it is explicitly laid down that the mergings and faithful copies are only made by the public and the archaeological Fund. Private individuals may produce copies with permission. Otherwise they are punished by imprisonment for up to three years. We cannot support this amendment because of the risk of commercialisation and unreasonable use of archaeological sites. Decentralisation in many cases will lead to incorrect use of these monuments. In the recent past there have been cases of arbitrariness. In any case, there should be a stricter legislative framework for the protection of our cultural heritage, something which to some extent is achieved by the Central Archaeological Council, at least as regards the preservation of cultural heritage as a public and legal asset. In the explanatory statement, if there were only the last paragraph, the provision referred to in paragraph 5 for the molds that I mentioned, we would vote in favour of this amendment. However, this cannot happen once archaeological sites are given for various uses. Unfortunately, we also have examples abroad where different parties are organized in the museums or in archaeological sites located ancient Greek sculptures and marbles. Amendments Nos 873 and 101. This provides for the possibility for RES power plants holders to conclude a operating aid contract provided that they submit to IPTO a declaration of payment of the total costs of connection in specified instalments. It is suspended from 1-1-2017 until the adoption of a Ministerial Decision, the operating aid for differential surcharge and fixed price for SITIA RES stations and wind stations. For the years 2015-2016, the holders of an authorisation to produce STHYA stations in hospitals shall be exempted from the obligation to pay an annual fee. We are saying 'the present' and we are voting 'the present' in this amendment. Mr President, there are several amendments. I won't make it to everyone. I'd like two minutes. Amendments Nos 874 and 102. The question of expenditure arising from the obligation to pay rents or allowances for property leased by the State, namely the Ministry of Culture, is currently regulated. It should be noted, however, what the particular assets and amounts due are, what is the reason why the provision was not introduced earlier since the debts are still for rents in 2014. It is necessary to present the establishment plan of the Ministry to determine whether the money is managed correctly. We are voting against this amendment. Amendment No 875 and special 103. This stipulates that rents shall be legally paid for property leased by the regions in cases where the lease agreement has not been extended, but that the regions retain their nationality and possession in respect of the property in question on a case-by-case basis. In fact, Article 21 of Presidential Decree 242/96 is invoked, but the application of that article requires the initial declaration of invitation to tender to have the possibility of prolonging the compatibility explicitly. This amendment is vague and we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u75	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u76	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr President, it is not our responsibility. When so many ministerial amendments and so many other parliamentary amendments come, we do not even have time to look at them. You don't even give us time to take a seat in the House. It is unacceptable how the Greek Parliament legislates and you should take it into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u77	Mr Shahinides, most of the time, however, you took him from the rapporteurs, there to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u78	Yeah, but I didn't have time to place myself. In the light of the amendments, we should also be given the right time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u79	Deal, but you took him most of the time. The other rapporteurs took less. Minister Kundura has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u80	To avoid any impressions, I will explain two things that are very important. EOT makes the promotion and promotion of Greece abroad, as far as the tourist product is concerned. In recent years we have had little money, and we have to manage them the best. To understand, there are only 7m euros from the Public Investment Programme, half of which are for our reports - normally competitions are made for our perimeters, when we go to the exhibitions - and the rest are for commercialization, which is done with very large tour operators abroad, in order to show Greece abroad. Also, the minimum advertising we do, unfortunately, is limited to very specific instruments, such as 'gogle', 'yahoo', 'facebook', 'twitter'. The amendment I made last week was to make it clear that you cannot, with the minimum money that is 600,000 euros to go to a competitive process and photograph 'gogle', 'yahoo', 'facebook', 'twitter', because in the last five years because of economic difficulties these are the only ones to which we are advertising, they take particular money and they advertise us in'social media', because we are not able to make advertising either in magazines or in newspapers or abroad. There's not a single euro. So these little money should go targeted at these'social media'. That is why we have passed this particular provision for three months, because immediately after that the Prime Minister has promised us that we will take a large sum so that we can get out with a big'spec', that is, with a big competition, say our needs and move on. The amendment which is now coming to the end of the debate is something quite different. Law 3270/2004 allows the EOT to combine and co-production at the time of the invitation and we agree with it, which in this case is not a public contract. Why did this have to be clarified? It had to be clarified, because what is more than EUR 209 000, whether it is a public contract or a simple contract that does the public but that makes it public to co-advertise and produce it, goes through the independent authority and the Court of Auditors. So when we addressed the independent authority and the Court of Auditors, they told us that this clarification is of the utmost importance. But the EOT must be covered in any control it can come and make a different interpretation. Every time we have to give a letter saying that it is not a public contract, so we cannot go through competitive procedures. Why can't he go? It can't, because TUI comes in and says "I bring you three million tourists and I make 3 million advertising. How much can you put, 10%, 20%?" So we make a deal, and we say 'We can put so much'. Very good. Why are we doing this? We're doing this to get together in a market where we don't have the money to go on our own. So this is not a public contract, why can't it go through a competitive procedure, because the contractor comes in and tells you "What can you put here?" Because our money for this is only EUR 2 million, we tell you that for years now TUI has taken from EUR 800,000 to EUR 1 million and the 'Thomas Cook' from EUR 600,000 to EUR 800,000 plus VAT. These are the only ones, unfortunately, tour operators that we can work with. For the most part, therefore, it comes to make it clear that the amendment is simply not a public contract, which the independent authority and the Court of Auditors have told us, as well as the General Secretariat of the Government, because it is technically not a public contract. It's just clearing up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u81	You're welcome. Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I would like to ask a question about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u83	It is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, I just want to ask the Minister about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u85	The amendment has been supported. Mr. Shahinides said a few things. The Minister answered. It's not a general debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, give the floor, since it is for one question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u87	Yes, but then we'll change the procedure, because he'll ask for another reason. I'm telling you this so you know it. The process is different. There will be no debate on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister something, because she refers to one, two major world organizations, so that there is no case behind the Minister - I am not saying for that minister - to abuse the amendment. Shouldn't I ask that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u89	There's no abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u90	Minister, we heard you, but we want to ensure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u91	You're wrong. Listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u92	I'm not wrong. I want to ask you to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u93	You're asking the wrong question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u94	Please, Mrs. Koudura.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u95	I want a second, Mr President. The amendment simply says that Law 3270, which talks about co-responsibility and co-production, does not fall under the public procurement law. That is what the amendment says. It clarifies that it does not fall, nothing else. Law 3270 shall apply. The amendment simply clarifies that it does not fall under this law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u96	The Minister for Health, Mr Xanthos, will support the amendment by a general number 879 on matters of the Ministry of Health. Please have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u97	The amendment, with a general number of 879 and a special 107, is a body of twelve regulations, most of which emerged as a result of the negotiations on the closure of the evaluation and most of which concern the EEA. One concerns the payment limit for hospital medicinal products. And one is the extension of a regulation which allows hospitals and health regions to be amended, not by presiding decrees, but by simple, joint ministerial decisions. With regard to the regulations relating to the EEA, what we have been able to negotiate with the institutions is, firstly, to amend last year's Memorandum of Understanding, Law No.4336, and increase the EEA's spending limit for the other than medical benefits to the insured. Based on n.4336, it was 1,402,000,000 euros. This year we had an overrun of expenditure. We have explained to the institutions that there were serious social reasons for this increase, which involved integration into the system of insecure citizens, who were concerned with the management of needs because of the refugee in relation to the increase in VAT in many species compensated by the EEA. There was therefore agreement in 2017 to raise EUR 123 million in the EEA's spending budget for non-drug expenditure on insured persons. There are other sickness benefits, materials related to diabetics, those with chronic respiratory problems, orthopaedics, optics, etc. It is a wide range of benefits provided by the EEAS. So they have an increase of 123 million euros. It goes to 1.525 for this year and in 2018 this amount is halved plus 62.5 million and goes to 1,462.5 billion euros. Since 2019, there has been a commitment to return to the original Memorandum of Understanding. However, to the extent that we have own revenues, increased own resources from the EEAS, the market threshold, that is, expenditure, can be restored to this year's level. I think what matters is that, firstly, when we have documentation based on specific social needs, we are making positive decisions with the institutions. This year was one year after intervention for uninsured people, we ensured that a portion of the population that was poorly treated in health has now been able to access both hospitals and laboratory tests and, of course, its medicines. This is evidenced by the data, as we have said in the debate on the budget. So when we prove to be documented, firstly, that we cover adequate social needs and, secondly, when we are convinced that there is a concrete plan of structural change and reform that ensures control of demand, without horizontal intervention and cuts, but also better negotiation of compensation prices for materials and contracts with private providers, then we can succeed in negotiating with institutional positive decisions. We also increased the set limit from the same Memorandum of N.4346 last year - they were late November, early December - for the limit of clawback on hospital medicines. EUR 570 million went to 590 million this year. That is where we had an overrun of expenditure. For the same reasons, there has been some increased demand for services from the public health system, which is perfectly understandable. However, we are committed that through the strengthening of e-government of the system, the integration of more diagnostic and therapeutic protocols and guidelines into e-prescription, this increase will not be carried forward - it will be one - off, as it is called - in the next few years. The oldest Memorandum commitment of EUR 570 million clawback limit for 2017 and EUR 550 million for 2018 will apply. There are also a number of changes, some of them related to the EEAS. These provide for the possibility for the administration of the EEAS, until the negotiation process with the providers has been completed, to adopt maximum compensation ceilings for services and materials with which the EEAS is contributing and which it grants to workers. That's the first. Secondly, there is a very critical change. It regulates the possibility of EEAS in the new EMS, the new Single Health Regulation - this is a significant change - to make contracts with suppliers of other health material. In other words, instead, the citizen, the insured, buys the material he needs from a supplier and then submits the cost to the EEAS to get a part back, the EEAS itself to become a direct contributor to suppliers, and the service of the citizens is free. I think it is a very important contribution to rationalisation and relief. Allow me, Mr President, to say two more words. There is also an intervention, again, for the EEA, which gives the pharmacists the possibility of extending the current system of auditing and clearance of payments, which in the opinion helps us to compensate 100% for expenditure submissions rather than 90%, as has been done so far, so that the liquidity of the companies and the contracted providers with the EEA is also strengthened. It is also possible from the same revenues acquired by the EEAS through the Intensified Control System to invest part of these own revenues and as additional financial incentives for staff participating in the checks and supporting the reorganisation of its administrative organisation, to support the information interventions of insured persons, to support prevention and health care interventions and to support public primary care structures. And the last - and I think it is more important - is the possibility that we will be given by the end of 2017 to review and amend all the current bodies of public hospitals and of the healthcare regions. We know very well that the organisations that have been voted on - the last amendments were made on 31-12/2012, a stay of time, under the pressure of the prerequisites and the Memorandum of Understanding - these bodies are totally out-of- fact, and do not even reflect the current staffing and functioning of departments and clinics in public hospitals. And there is one attempt - in consultation with the new administrations of hospitals and of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - to go to amendments, which: firstly, to guarantee the operating departments, to prevent anyone's job being jeopardised and to allow development prospects for the public health system. We are therefore bypassing the time-consuming process of issuing amendments to agencies by means of presidential decrees, which you know very well that it lasts about one and a half years. I think it's a framework of interventions that reinforces public health systems right now. It remains to be seen in practice its measurable effectiveness in health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too. Mr. Stathakis, you have two minutes to talk about legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for Health on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u100	Please, look, just one question, because previously on the same subject was created...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u101	Hey, what do we do? Minister, in paragraph 10, there is an increase in hospital pharmacy expenditure of 20 million for insecure immigrants, as you describe. Now, another increase in the spending limit and another increase in funding from the state budget. We ask you: is the pharmaceutical industry not being strengthened with EUR 20 million, since these will be deducted from overcompensation for the pharmaceutical costs that pharmaceutical manufacturers should have to pay back to the EEA? In paragraph 11 you refer to decisions to overpayment of health benefits in kind. Are you going to be chasing patients to pay for services they received, for example, in the disability certification centres, will you give a lower disability rate - which is the most common in recent years - and will not be entitled to free health services? Then the ones they got for the period until they're judged will have to pay them? I say it because it's a phenomenon that meets. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u102	Here, Minister, you have the floor. But let's finish, because other ministers are waiting to talk about the law-making.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u103	As far as pharmaceutical expenditure is concerned, last year it was EUR 570 million, of which EUR 490 million was for public hospitals and the remaining EUR 80 million was for private clinics and hospitals outside the RIS, i.e. ‘Papagorgios’, ‘NIMTS’, ‘Aretaire’, ‘Egyptio’, which are supplied by their medicines through the pharmacy of EEA. There was an overrun in spending. It'll close about 650-660 million this year. We, therefore, just so that we do not have problems supplying hospitals from pharmaceutical companies, which often invoke unbearable costs because of clawback, made a negotiation and managed to increase a limit which we believe was very low and we have said so since last year, but it was not acceptable. It was subsequently recognised that due to the increased accessibility of the health system, it was obviously unrealistic. Let me make a comment. At the moment, not only in our country but internationally, capital is producing medicines. Capital is researching, capital produces medicines, and states buy medicines and medical equipment. So prosecuteting that we give the industry money, I think it's a critique out of reality. The working class doesn't produce medicines and medical equipment, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u104	Definitely produces why he works!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u105	Ms. Manolakou, we don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u106	And as long as we are obliged to meet people's needs in this country, in medicines, tests, etc., we will give the capital money, but we will do so in a rational way, in an honest manner and on the basis of evaluation criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u107	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u108	As far as the second comment is concerned, this is not, in principle, about the CSRs. CIPA is a case that has to do with the Ministry of Labour. It's not about the CIPS. However, there are controls currently being carried out by the EEAS, intensified and random, which proves very great excesses and abuses in the supply of materials, obviously through a coexistence of many factors. Whenever such an event occurs, it is evident that the unpaid, mainly by the providers and not by the insured, will be sought.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u109	We should ask Mrs Connordos for permission to speak very briefly, Mr Nicos Pappas, who has an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. I also thank the ministers for their facilitation. With this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, it is simply clear that, as in the past, public television was the responsibility of the Minister, who had in his portfolio the General Secretariat for Information, this competence is in the newly established Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u111	Why is that not in the Prime Minister's decision and that's a law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u112	It's in the Prime Minister's decision. It's like this. The new Ministry consists of the three specific secretariats, the General Secretariat for Information, the newly established General Secretariat for Digital Policy and the General Secretariat for Telecommunications and Post, which moved to the newly established Ministry by the Ministry of Infrastructure. It is therefore clear that in the current legislation, which refers to the Minister responsible for broadcasting, the Minister for Digital Policy is now to be understood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u113	Thank you too, Mr Pappa, for the brief speech. The Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr. Lydia Konordos, has the floor for five minutes. I guess you're running out of time, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u114	So he has several aspects.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u115	All right, let's go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u116	With the first article of the amendment, the definitions of the concepts of uterus, model, molding, accurate copy and inspired applications are added to improve the protection of those cultural products. For the second Article, the proposed provision of the amendment replaces Article 46 of Law 3028/2002 as it is currently the case in which a regulatory ministerial decision setting out the general terms and conditions for public visits to organised archaeological sites, historic sites, real estate monuments is adopted. Secondly, the general terms and procedures for granting authorisations for the use of organised archaeological sites, historical sites, immovable monuments. For each specific request for the use of organised archaeological site of a site of a real estate monument, an ad hoc ministerial decision is foreseen on the Council's recommendation. During the thirteen years of implementation of the law, it has been noted that this process has been substantially extended the time needed to approve requests for the use of organised archaeological sites, historic sites, immovable monuments, which may sometimes make it difficult or even cancel their use and constitutes a significant administrative burden for the operation of the Central Archaeological Council, to which many other important responsibilities have been entrusted. The proposed provision retains, on the one hand, the provision of the relevant regulatory decision, but the provision of an ad hoc ministerial decision is repealed after the relevant opinion of the relevant Council for any request to grant an organised archaeological site of a land monument. Thus, it is possible to decentralise the system of granting the licences concerned and to transfer by the relevant Ministerial Decision the power to implement the law and the respective Ministerial Decision to the relevant competent authorities. By the same decision, it can, of course, be considered that requests for the use of museum sites will continue to be examined by the Council, such as requests relating to more than one site, requests relating to UNESCO monuments. The transfer of the competence to approve requests for the use of organised archaeological site of a historical property monument by the Minister of Culture and Sport to the relevant antiques of antiquities of new monuments is deemed to fulfil all the guarantees for the effective protection of archaeological sites, historical sites, monuments, since the adoption of the regulatory ministerial decision, setting out the general terms and conditions of public visit in organised archaeological sites, historic sites, real estate monuments, has already taken place. On the other hand, the farms are able to know the specific requirements for protecting the archaeological sites, the historical sites and monuments of their local authority which will enable them to determine the best possible conditions for carrying out the visits and uses requested. The proposed amendment forms part of a growing effort to make effective use of our cultural heritage and to facilitate access by visitors to archaeological sites. This amendment simplifys the relevant procedures and significantly reduces the time required to approve requests for the use of archaeological monuments, etc. This is how the proposed amendment aims to make our country more attractive to international film productions, to improve the tourist product offered, but also to increase the revenues of the Greek State by making more rational use of our cultural heritage. Paragraph 4 of the second article of the proposed amendment provides for the possibility of producing, reproducing and disseminating to the public in any way and means of copying or portraying monuments, movable or imaging real estate belonging to the public by private individuals, following the issue of a prior authorisation granted against a fee paid to the EPA. It is proposed to simplify the licensing system in the same way as paragraph 1. In particular, the Minister of Culture and Sport shall be authorised to adopt a regulatory decision setting out the terms, conditions and procedure for granting such authorisation. But ad hoc is no longer required at any time to examine the requests made by the Council and the adoption of a ministerial decision. This simplification aims to improve the services provided by the Ministry of Culture and Sport to citizens (simplification of procedures and a significant acceleration of the licensing process and optimise the operation of the Central Archaeological Board). I now point out that the provision in Article 46(5) of Law 3028/2002, as applicable, provided that the production of migrating and registrant monuments may also be carried out by individuals on the basis of authorisation. This proposed provision explicitly stipulates that the molds and faithful copies are only made by the public and the SGM, while individuals are able to produce from these manipulated copies and inspiring applications, subject to authorisation. This distinction is necessary for the protection of monuments. This concerns the amendment of the relevant law. In the second article, there is a legislative improvement in the Ministerial Amendment with a general number of 872. In the second article of that amendment, amending Article 46 of Law 3028/2002 and for reasons of good legality and consistency of the amended provisions, which have to do with references to other articles or legislation in that Article, internally renumber the paragraphs of Article 46. Paragraph 2 shall be renumbered 2a, paragraph 4 shall be renumbered 2b, paragraph 3 shall remain as applicable, the former paragraph 5 shall be renumbered 4 and the former paragraph 6 shall be renumbered 5 respectively. [[At this point the Minister, Mrs Lydia Konordos, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] Changing p. To enter page 122-124 Changing p.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u117	We now have an amendment on the regulation of expenditure resulting from the obligation to pay rent or indemnity for property rented by the State, in this case the Ministry of Culture and Sport. The relevant annual expenditure shall be committed at the beginning of each financial year with tables drawn up by authorising officers, on the basis of the relevant lease agreements and in accordance with the provisions on public accounting. In the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 due to the change in the establishment plan of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, there has been a delay in the services required in accordance with the provisions to commit the corresponding appropriations in order to subsequently adopt the relevant commitment decisions on the payment of rents or allowances for the use of buildings in which institutions of the central administration are housed. It is therefore important that the State so far has been unable to pay the due redundancy or user compensation for the leases which have expired and has been involved in legal disputes. The proposed provision, therefore, allows for the payment of the beneficiaries, prevents unnecessary judicial struggles and strengthens the confidence of public wage earners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Minister. Mr Andreas Xanthos, Minister for Health, has been asked for the floor for a very short legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u119	I have failed to say before that we have tabled a legislative improvement in three articles of the twelve amendments, which I now tabled on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u120	I would also ask the Bureau to be able to share it with the Members. Here you go, Mr. Maniots, you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u121	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture and Sport a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u122	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u123	Minister, because I have listened very carefully to your documentation, I understand that. We are amending an article of Law 3028/2002, which has been in force for thirteen years. My question is this: This amendment, which otherwise could be completely normal, why is it coming under the urgency procedure and as a matter of urgency? It shall be submitted in due time. Why should the Greek Parliament adopt it and vote on it now before the closure of the House in the holidays? Could he not discuss this amendment and vote for it, for example, with the new opening of the House on 4 January? That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u124	Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u126	Mrs Conordou has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u127	I think the time lost makes functions difficult, delays the necessary procedures. The new organisation frees the ability of the LAG to produce molds. We also have very strong protests from all inventions that their work is difficult and they cannot take decisions because of delays. It was our duty to speed this up as quickly as possible, because there is a difficulty in the work of the revenues and, moreover, there are delays which have an impact on the revenues, as you can see, of the public from the relevant regulations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u128	Very good, Minister. Mrs Manolakou had asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u129	We shall vote on the amendment from the Ministry of Culture, we have no objection. I simply take the opportunity for a request which we consider reasonable not only to take into account the Central Archaeological Council, the CAS, but also to pass through the local archaeological councils, because they also have a picture and say. We consider it reasonable, and we ask you to take this into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u131	Here you go, Mrs. Koniodrou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u132	But this amendment takes into account precisely these suggestions of local taxes and is intended precisely to facilitate their work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Xydakis, as former Minister of Culture, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u136	I would also like to explain to Mr Maniatis, who reasonably wonders why the 2002 archaeological law has endured and now urgently has to change. It is not a matter of urgency, I would like to inform my fellow Members. The debate on permits for the use of archaeological sites not only by the Central Archaeological Council and not only by ad hoc ministerial decision is a thought that arouses the government's political leaderships for at least two to three years. It's in the right direction. You are right, Mr Maniatis, to say why, as a matter of urgency and intentionally, the last days of the year. However, the whole content of the amendment is perfectly reasonable, it promotes all functionality in the right direction. There is no single antenna that is unfounded and for the exploitation of the land is in the right direction, the right commercial exploitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Stathakis, has the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u138	I'll take the floor three times in a row, as you understood, but the other two times when I'm ready 100%. Now I'm talking about the legislative improvements in the trunk of the bill. I'll testify. I'll point out three that matter. The others are either literal or clarificational. I am referring, first of all, to the bodies involved in the board. The Central Association of Chambers of Greece is added and the one member of the Committee is removed. The second point is that the pre-approval of the law was signed by the Minister. In order to make this process lighter, it is replaced by the decision of the Secretary-General of Spatial Planning and Urban Environment. Therefore, the pre-approval, following the agreement and the suggestion of the opinion given by the Council - I would remind you of what the law says - will be signed by the special secretary and not by the minister. As far as the third point is concerned, it is clarified, because it has also been raised in the debate, that the elements to be submitted to enter the process of pre-approval of the Special Spatial Plan do not include environmental impacts, which will be judged at the stage of final approval of a study. It is therefore simply clear that the papers that he is required to submit to the pre-authorization level are his plan, the Special Spatial Plan, in simple formats and not examine the environmental elements, which could be misunderstood that a specific study, etc. is needed. Therefore, a procedure similar to that procedure is followed. All the other legal improvements are simple. I will return to my second speech with the ministers and the third with the MEPs. [[At this point, the Minister, George Stathakis, presents for the Minutes the abovementioned legislative provisions, which read as follows:]] Changing p. Let the pages in. 134-138 Changing p.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u141	Here you go, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u142	I would like to clarify something, Minister. Does the pre-approval procedure remain?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u143	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u144	And you just remove the signature of the Minister and leave it at the level of the Secretary-General?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u145	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u146	Are you absolutely sure that this lightens the process and does not make it even more uncontrolled than the political leadership, which is accountable anyway at all times to the investor and the people? I'm afraid you're making it even worse. In any case, I will be present. The second question concerns the composition of the Regional Planning Council. We have asked that the National Confederation of Persons with Disabilities, as well as the STEM, be involved. Is that acceptable?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u147	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u148	It can't be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u149	Members don't change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, could I take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u152	Not now, Mr. Kegeroglu. The debate will continue with the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Lazarides, and after the speech Mr Mavrotas, Mrs Manolakos etc. Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. I won't be long. After all, three times I have developed our arguments here because we support this bill, which is in the right direction and has been giving a solution to issues that have been dating for many years. I would like to say two words about two amendments. One I tabled it on behalf of the Independent Greeks. It is the amendment under number 832/76, which corrects the mistakes of the past, which municipalities have been facing and have really risen in recent years. In the past, especially in the 1950s, 1960s, 1970s, the prefects decided to grant some land to the municipalities. In the judgments of the prefectures, reference was made to the number of parcels, since it was a parcel, or otherwise, if it were plots, i.e. the number of plots, squares, etc. By adopting these decisions, the counties took the decisions, translated them into the mortgage room, became the owners of these areas and proceeded with various acts. They once made parks or schools within these areas and other land they were dived in order for the municipality to obtain resources to carry out its plans. In any case, there were various acts. These specific areas were acquired in the Register. But this happened. During the period when the judgments of the prefectures came out, when they were sent to the National Printing Office, sometimes by mistake, some parcels were received. In other words, if, for example, the prefecture had thirty, forty, fifty, one hundred parcels transferred to the municipality, by consignee, it did not pass a plot or plot into the FEI, if it were land already in the project, which was clearly atrocious. Now, with this amendment - because the municipalities are at risk now by certain entities that are questioning the property of the municipality - we are calling for this mistake to be restored and now to register these parcels or land that have been received, which, I repeat, have already been transferred to the mortgage office and which have also been acquired by the municipalities. And we're talking about this is about a lot of municipalities across Greece. I am now going to talk about another amendment, which we are signing five Members from all parties. This amendment, which, I repeat, we sign five Members from all the parties, is about correcting a mistake - because I believe this is a mistake - because in 2013 a provision has been passed, which calls for an account of the Monasteries of Mount Athos to be taken of the year. I am talking about Amendment No 884/112. In 1932 the monasteries of Mount Athos had granted a very large number of land in Halkidiki to the public for the restoration of refugees. Then, because, with this concession, the monks of Mount Athos lost resources in exchange for the public, they paid, in the form of a grant, an amount annually on Mount Athos. And this, of course, appeared as an annual financial sponsorship, but I do not think it can be described this way because of the great economic offer of the Holy Monasteries to the Greek State for the rehabilitation of refugees, which none of us can question. In 2013, however, a provision came here and was voted on, which requires every year that Mount Athos gives an account, which is not right. With this amendment we call on the five Members - and I want you to accept it, Mr Minister, and I would also like my fellow Members to support it - to return to the former regime, because what happened in 2013 is an injustice for Mount Athos monasteries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr Lazarides, special speaker of the Independent Greeks. Mr. George Mavrotas, special speaker from the Potami, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill we tried to make a constructive opposition, making criticisms and suggestions, in a very important bill as that is. I would, in fact, like to thank the rapporteur for the draft bill, Mr Diaras, because he has tried in a climate of consensus and has incorporated some of our remarks, as he said, in consultation with the ministers at all times. A very serious bill, however, as this spatial planning today necessarily goes to second degree. The reason is a word. The word 'Amendments'. And to be more specific, unnecessarily and late. What is happening today in today's bill exceeds every limit. We have nineteen ministerial and twenty-five parliamentary amendments so far. It is the new record, because so far the record has been held by the National Executive Register with twenty-nine amendments. You take note that some of the parliamentary amendments are essentially ministerial amendments, which are given to Members, in order to be submitted. We have said in every way and in every bill that this must be stopped, the President of Parliament has said so, and yet the situation is getting worse. What happened? Is the administrative failure, or has the system been allotted to us, that we can at any time table an amendment and solve the matter? The bills have finally become the hosts of the amendments, i.e. the body, the substrate, to pass through the amendments, which are, to a large extent, rousphetological. We have found, in other words, a priest, the bill, to bury five to six, to incorporate a number of forty amendments, such as forty-four specific amendments today. Then we must not complain about the quality of political life when we ourselves do not respect legislative procedures. We therefore have to take amendments to this effect. And you really don't see the elephant in the room and nobody's talking about him? Who is it? It is the customer system, which is maintained by the amendments. That is to say, to avoid consultation, to go wrong, so that it does not get too steadfast, to become law, to legitimise rousfetti. It is a cross-party practice, and it is not a current discovery, of course, also applies in the past to PASOK and New Democracy government. But, gentlemen of SYRIZA, weren't you the ones who blamed the previous governments for the way they legislated? And you did very well. Now what has changed from unacceptable to negotiable, that way of legislating has become necessary? When are we going to put the brake on that descent? It's about disgracefulness. Anyone who remembers something, who wants a rousphetti, has the edge of a minister or a Member of Parliament is bringing it as an amendment. We have made the Rules of Procedure a rag of paper and they go through late, unreported, unregulated amendments, which are totally rejected. We've become the country of exceptionally and urgent. We cannot programme or are we happy with this regime, and the administration, but also the parties, and we say 'Come on, will we make an amendment and then end it'? It's not hard to see why we got here. The first step, therefore, to regain the political system is to commit ourselves not to legislate on the foot. We are calling for reforms for society by citizens. We are, however, prepared to make reforms to ourselves, to the House, in other words to get undone? And well, will anyone say, are there no cases where necessary, an amendment necessary? There are, but let's see the circumstances. The country, which took 'the perfect measure', is also the champion in its destruction. We cannot in a bill of seventeen articles - it is this bill - have forty-five amendments, which are the ones that are irrelevant, they are late, some are parliamentary, some are ministerial, and even parliamentarians are, however, essentially ministerial. I will not just close with criticism, but I will also go to some proposals. As a first step, we should say no more and no more amendments to start with. The normal amendments, when they come, of course, only by an increased majority of two-thirds of the Members or 50% of the parties, in order to substantiate their necessity across the board. So I hope a brake enters and a better processing takes place. So the phenomenon of the amendment is the cancer of our legislative work. We denounced it once, denounced two, now it's no longer working. We're always condemning, but nothing happens. So we had all the good will to vote on this bill - I said yesterday to Mr Dimitras - but this time we will not be taking part in this defiance of parliamentary procedures. We will withdraw from the vote of the bill, leave the theatre of irrationality, which gives the image of an illiterate and is not appropriate to the Greek Parliament. And we depart, sending a'sos' to the executive and legislative power, if this catastrophe stops. I think that this is how we offer the ministers, the respective ministers, to invoke it when they are under pressure for a series of amendments either by parliamentarians or by other ministries. One has to start by resisting a decadent situation that can suit all the parties in Parliament and the Ministries, but unfortunately it is not the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. George Mavrotas, special speaker from the river. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-one students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st General High School Argos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform students and students that they are following a legislative process of the Ministry of Environment and Energy regarding spatial planning and sustainable development. We are in the process of discussion, at the end of the debate there will be the vote, and the bill will become the law of the state. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamanto Manolakou has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u157	The night's burns are seen by day and laughing. That's what our people say. That is what we say about the many amendments, ministerial and parliamentary, particularly from SYRIZA, which show conciliation with the ministers, which were made in the middle of the night and continue in the day, and I do not know until the vote what will still have come. And the kids are listening. This is unacceptable with the amendments. Not even time to read you give and ask for improvements and votes. He's a nerve! You are also decoratingly using this urban parliamentary procedure, which, in fact, - as we call it, or as the children say -'spit it', and on the other hand, you see the institutions. We don't decorate them, the bourgeois state serves. However, some amendments look like you want to make Christmas bonuses to some and you are posing as the Ayobalis. Let me tell you something. The 'Kosovo' we shall vote on them, even if they favour workers for a while. However, some amendments are severely unpopular, they are at the expense of the majority, and some will crush self-employed scientists, such as the amendment by which legal persons who can carry out energy inspections only need to have an employee with a contract of employment that is an energy inspector, and so far only if they were a member or a partner of the company. What does that mean? It means that the self-employed energy inspector is crushed and hired in a block in the big business. This is how the concentration and concentration progresses and the small and medium-sized ones are crushed. You are also putting it at the outset that it is in compliance with the OECD toolbox, as if that were your atonement. Equally, it shows that you implement all the requirements of capital for greater profitability. The same is true of the amendment on the establishment of the green points. The 'green' points are an essential element of the local waste management plans brought by the Government with the national waste management plan, in a very anti-popular manner. The aim is to facilitate the placement of ‘green’ points along with those of similar content of the Recycling, Training, Selection Center in the Source. At the same time, the Minister for the Environment and the relevant Minister is given the opportunity to regulate, by common decisions, any other matters relating to the application of this Regulation, as written, i.e. the remaining object of the amendment, which is deliberately left unclear. In fact, it is not the cadete term, used by all, ‘civil waste’, but the vague ‘civil waste’, which includes non-civil waste, such as burned oils or motor oils, tyres, useless vehicles, etc., which is the sole responsibility of the industrial groups producing them. So these, which are private, are going along with municipal waste, making use of public land, which the people's family so much need, infrastructure, which will be made with public resources, and labour force, which the municipalities of course will provide. Furthermore, the legal status of green points is not specified specifically, leaving them open to private individuals. Green points can be seen in large and small. But their specialty will come out of a joint ministerial decision. The large green spots, although they are waste management units, can be located in off-site areas without any restriction, except those subject to special protective provisions, as you say. But in this case, they are also excluded from the ban on those areas which are characterised by a low degree of protection, such as residential control zones. Small green areas up to a thousand square metres are to be installed in buildings within the residential fabric, except for areas of pure residence. Uh, don't expect us to vote. We will vote against it. Now, for the suspension of the special burial fee. It is necessary, you say, not to cause economic suffocation to the Ottawas. Sure. But why don't you completely abolish this suffocating ending, which strangles the public as well? In fact, this measure provokes provocatively the mechanical treatment and incineration of mixed waste, the scope of investment and profitability for capital in the next period, to the detriment of landfill, a method which is much more economical and technically more accessible to the services of the municipalities and the relevant PVCs. Ultimately, it is a charm that takes off and forms part of the general tax raid in favour of the needs of capital. If it is implemented after 2017, it will take away from the already looted people's income through the cleanliness fee 125 million per year, to reach 2,040 million euros per year by 2020-2022. We, what are we asking you for? We are asking for the immediate abolition of this new rock for the people's family rather than the simple extension for one year. In the end, we ask you to answer a comprehensive question that we have asked you two months ago, precisely to withdraw this new carpet completely. We will be expressing ourselves with 'the present'. Now, let me say something about the Health Ministry's amendment. One could make a proper speech to answer what the Minister said, but also to all the paragraphs, which appear to come from the Quartet's assessment. This is why we are voting against, of course, because this is a package of regulations which seek to implement, promote and control the implementation of the policy of cuts - I repeat, the policy of cuts - in the area of health and benefits for patients and to maintain negative regulations, particularly for self-employed health workers. As far as paragraph 4 is concerned, I do not know whether or not it is changing it. If it was a special article, we'd vote on it. I say this clearly, we would vote in favour, because it provides for the payment of the self-employed. We are interested in them, not in the health businessmen who fall under the same rules as the state budget. I could speak in detail about the others. But I don't have time. What's the point? The fact is that under current conditions there are only one-stop shop needs to look for new business sectors with high profitability for ponds, overcompensated funds. That is why it requires that you too implement the abolition of any framework that has been created in the past to protect the environment and to change land use, which is not compatible with entrepreneurship. In this sense, a majority rapporteur, the JRC is in favour of planning the central land use planning, according to society's technical and science and needs, and not for the capitalist's profit, as this bill promotes. There are contradictions and antagonisms between the parts of the chapter, which are also represented by political bodies and there are controversies in this Chamber too, but conflicts about the effective way in which the wild anti-grassroots policy is implemented, which you voted cooperatively in the third memorandum. Finally, I would like to say about the articles that we are voting against them all. However, in Article 15 we are voting on paragraph 3, which deals with shocking and fire-fighting areas, and you have not answered the questions that we have raised for the other favourable paragraphs. Who's this about? You have not answered, so we are voting against Rule 15. With regard to Article 16, which is extended by the end of 2017 to the employees of management bodies, we are expressing ourselves with 'present', because these people need to be permanentised. They're useful. They're experienced. They have knowledge and can be exploited, especially in forest services, which have been dedicated. Can the New Democracy for twelve years have had them with such employment relationships, Mr Famele, but what are you doing? You perpetuate it, and let's talk about a better shower that burns better fuel. Finally, Minister, you did not respond because you abolished digitization and electronic recording of land use. You do not want there to be a trace of rapid and flexible changes in land use that some will gain too much. So you form a friendly environment for entrepreneurship and hostile to popular strata.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mrs Manolakos, the friend of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u159	I would like to clarify a few points on the basis of which Mrs Manolakou has been placed. I think this helps the whole parliamentary debate. My intervention concerns the green points of the burial fee, the environmental operators and land arrangements. I'm gonna need ten seconds for each. Green points make it clear that they are infrastructures which help to sort out the source and function of the municipalities. They are not related and are not granted to individuals. The only place that can handle green-point function is the social economy. That's a saying. There is no window and there must be no worries. At the same time, there is indeed a joint ministerial decision on two tools: the first, to give the waste codes that will go and no professional waste, to be municipal. Secondly, so that we can draw up the standard environmental standards so that the municipalities can be directly licensed, so that self-government and society can organise recycling with a distinct collection at the source and extensively. Secondly, regarding the burial fee, the extension of the burial fee for one year and the proclamation of the measures in the EMEA for the treatment and management of waste basically ensure that the citizen is not charged with burial fee and then constantly, since we and the government are supporting recycling and material recovery. So if we don't do this somewhere and either the professional or the self-government does it, there's got to be a stimulus to push. So for the time being, we are not abolishing it, we are suspending it. We finance these projects, and we have regional plans to find a solution from which the self-government will also be judged on whether they take appropriate initiatives, because we need to be responsible in a country that clearly wants to support recycling. Thirdly, as far as environmental bodies are concerned, there is an extension of the procedure of non-concentration and payment of employees and we have committed ourselves together with the bodies and workers and the 'Natural 2000' committee to have a legislative initiative in which we must also have public funding and job assurance, as you said. If there is no today, which if, for example, we were to vote 'at present' would not exist, then it would not be possible for workers to have work and pay. So we'd close our eyes to a real problem. That is why we are calling on you to have a common position. You will decide in this direction. Finally, for land arrangements, so that there is no problem after the Presidential Decree has been adopted, based on today's debate on land use and design specifications: we have already said - and I have already said it personally in the budget debate, and I repeat it in the debate - that there will be codification of environmental legislation and imprinting into a single digital map system, all land protection and usage arrangements, so that rules are clear both for self-government and for society and for the citizen to be able to control and not get involved in bureaucratic swings and provide services on a case-by-case basis. It is clearly done with land uses on a map for all Greece and the protection areas. I think that's what we can say. It's a common tool for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u160	Minister, you're an engineer and you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u161	Not like that. We thank the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr Socrates Famelos. To give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Ephi Ahtsoglou, to defend an amendment ministerial. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment presented by the Ministry of Labour provides for the extension of a specialization and training programme for former employees of the company "THRAKI S.A." for two years. In fact, it is a sixty-three remaining beneficiaries of the special programme for former workers in Thrace. The extension of the programme is considered extremely important for the lives of these people, since beneficiaries whose contract expires on 31-12-2016 will find themselves in a particularly difficult position, on the one hand, as they do not meet the conditions for retirement, on the other hand because the unemployment rates in the region are relatively high. We are talking about the region of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace and the Regional Unity of Evros. In any case, this programme is one of the targeted programmes of the Ministry of Labour to access employment and maintain jobs in the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace and in the Municipality of Alexandroupolis. These workers, these beneficiaries are already working on projects in local entities in the Regional Unit of Evros on various services and structures, building cleaning, infrastructure maintenance, etc. Obviously, the possible termination of the grant would seriously make the operation of these hosting bodies more difficult, but most importantly, it would leave these sixty-one people unemployed on 31-12-2016. With this amendment, therefore, we are amending the last subparagraph of Article 38 of Law 3762/2009 to extend the programme for these sixty beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u164	Madam Minister, we will vote for it if the extension is for work. But, apparently, these people are useful, exploited in the region and in the municipality. So many years that they've been prolonging their work means they're useful. Our question is: why don't you permanently permanently, even in personal positions, until they retire, given the unemployment of the region?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Madam Minister, I don't know if you want to answer. I'll leave it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u166	He's got an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u167	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u168	As you know, the permanentisation of positions cannot be carried out in this way. Personal positions cannot be created and they can be permanent, that is, to the institutions in the way you describe. That, anyway, would not have been the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour. But in any case it can't be that way. It's not in line with the Constitution. At the moment, what we are doing is giving people immediate relief, so that they will not be found at the end of the year without work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u169	Thank you. The Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Olga Gerovasili, has the floor to support her amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about Amendment No 878/1996. I would remind you that we had extended workers' contracts to the cleanliness of the municipalities. Some municipalities had, however, prior to and conducted notices for the recruitment of staff for 2017. This created a problem which, if we left it without the amendment, without the regulation we are bringing today, would affect the budgets of the municipalities, which would not, of course, be easy to withstand. So, with this amendment, those municipalities who have launched notices on recruitment in 2017 and have made the issue of final listing tables, do not have to recruit directly the successful ones, because this would create the financial burden on their budget. On the contrary, they will cover the cleanliness sector with the extensions to staff, which already employs and, at the same time, transfer the recruitment of this staff for 2018. Of course, in any case, if their budget allows it, it will be possible to recruit from these staff tables in 2017, if the corresponding posts exist, of course. I would remind you that we proposed this solution at the CEDEFOP conference, which we were asked by the mayors of the country, and that is where we agreed with the CEDEFOP that this amendment solves this issue. I therefore call for this regulation to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the list of speakers. The first is Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios of the New Democracy. As you can see, these are speeches on the amendments. You'll have time for two or three minutes, that is. We're not talking about anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, may I ask the Minister something now or then?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u173	Ask now, Mrs Manolakou, to proceed with the list of speakers. Mrs. Gerovalis, Mrs. Manolakou asks you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u174	Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, we want to vote on this, but we have a problem from now on: Good people who are prolonging. Don't get fired. But, of the people that have been approved, some of them can fill a few gaps. Okay? However, you are condemning them to be recruited in 2018. So, there's no possibility for these people who were approved and hovered? I say this because there are risks - and you know - that they should not be paid in the end, that there should be no warrants and that there should be no payouts and that contracts should be found in the air literally. We would like this issue, if it can, to be regulated and I do not know how.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u175	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u176	The question of the payment of accruals is resolved. We have made the corresponding communications with the Court of Auditors, which was one topic there. I also informed the OTA trade unions yesterday at a meeting we had, the WTO - I mean, OTA. Another amendment may be necessary, but it is now being studied by the lawyers. In any case, however, it is solved. These people won't be paid in any way. As for what you say, they are of course both workers and future workers. Our respect for the need for work is precisely the same to all citizens. You know that in our logic it was not the country's main employed staff and the municipalities to be on contract. We are in favour of stable and permanent employment. However, you realise that these are steps which enable longer work than for an eight-month period and to the extent that we are given by the legal status of our country, we are doing so, because our political will is clear. As you can see, however, this is not the case. I agree with you that it is a regulation, which does not solve the issue definitively. On the other hand, because they have been informed since last year, very few municipalities have launched new SAPA competitions. Most of all, the cleanliness people, who are prolonged, will work. I think the mayors were aware that the new extension would be given. We give this opportunity to work in the municipalities in 2017 and perhaps in 2018. There was no other possibility. Really, we'd all like to be able to work. However, each municipality cannot raise a greater number on its budget than it has budgeted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Minister. Let's apologize to Mr. Georganta. Mr New Democracy MEP, you can now take the floor for a very short time, as we have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Colleagues, what the Minister is asking us today, if you do not understand - why we need to read the legislation to understand it - is this: Those who kept the legality and then entered the AACC procedure - the tables have been set up to work on cleanliness contracts in the municipalities - they must wait for 2018, first the extensions of the contracts which the government completely arbitrarily and illegally decided to do and then perhaps work in 2018, unless the government is back in 2018, as it did last year, gives a new extension for 2018 for those who are already working and those who have been judged through AACC that they are those who have to work, stay and wait for a life! That is what this provision says. In other words, the perpetrators of the AACC, with the criteria set by the law, must stay and wait until the government has exhausted all its legislative initiatives, which are in complete contrast with Article 103 of the Constitution. The Minister knows that very well, and I think we should all know that. In this article, what means a fixed-term contract is distinguished and clearly formulated. For this reason, the Court of Auditors did not find payment to be lawful on extensions of contracts that have been made in this way. Also, political courts have judged in cases of workers who were by extensions of contracts and who have been removed and have asked for them to come back, that this cannot be done because there is the provision of Article 103 of the Constitution and of other, of course, legislation which distinguishes the fixed-term contract from the contract of indefinite duration. Ladies and gentlemen, especially in Ottawa clean-up agreements, we have this absurdity: Without the bodies themselves coming to demand an extension of contracts, without coming to ask for the government to take a legislative initiative to cover the gap that exists, the government is arbitrarily coming and prolonging cleaning contracts, it gives a favourable treatment to some workers, at the same time denying the right of others who had CSCE criteria to work. All this, while no one forbids any municipal council, whenever it judges and when it decides - precisely because the funds of cleanliness are of a contributory nature, and if you do not overtake them you can hire everyone you want - if they want to, hire another ten, another twenty, another thirty, either with fixed-term contracts or on a permanent basis. Because it is not forbidden, especially for cleaning contracts, even this. Instead of allowing each municipality, each body to do what it chooses, to set the priorities it sets out, because within the amounts and funds of cleanliness, there are also those relating to wastewater and their replacement, and with such other issues, the government is arbitrarily coming in to extend these conventions to create a permanent expectation to these officials, who are now trapped. And I'm glad to hear that before the previous Minister mention that they can't simulate themselves. Yeah, they can't simulate. There is a constitutional ban on that. Nevertheless, we are creating a expectations by breaking the Constitution and the laws in all these cases and in order to enable some municipalities to cope, are already being forced to increase, without cause, municipal fees, 23% of a municipality, 30% of another municipality, to meet needs that they did not have, which they could meet on their own initiative and through the legal procedure. Indeed, we cannot understand why the government insists on this, and the decisions of the Court of Auditors, but also of justice, are contrary to that. It is a flagrant violation of the Constitution and it is not only legal, but also morally unacceptable. The government must stop legislating like this. Let one of our colleagues answer what we have to say to those who have succeeded with ASPs to work in cleanliness. We have to tell them 'Wait until 2018, why should the extensions of contracts be terminated' decided by Mrs Gerovassili?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr. Georganta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, just to answer for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u181	Yes, Minister, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u182	Yeah, for a minute, 'cause the main part of the answer I've already given it. However, I must say to Mr Georgioda that this regulation gives the opportunity and the municipalities have agreed - and the mayors in other words - that they will not have any problems with their budgets. So anyone who uses - in his rhetoric at least - the argument that, on the basis of this, the municipalities will be forced to increase the fees, they will do so - to be clean here - just because they want to increase fees and not because they have a problem that is resolved through it. One is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u183	This is for the extra, Minister, not the extensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u184	The other is that we have never violated an article of the Constitution. We're talking about extensions of contracts. They're contracts. They are not permanent appointments. If we had broken it, we would have talked about it, Mr. Georgioda. But you're overreacting. I think you're getting ahead of yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u185	I'm not. Let everyone read 103.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u186	We've read it very well. There is no violation of the Constitution by extension of a contract. Also - not to say inaccurate - previous cleansing workers have also been judged by APRC. The ones we're talking about have been judged with an AAP. No one has entered any other way from 'the windows'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u187	The two months were not judged by an ASP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u188	Please! They're working people in cleanliness. We're not talking about positions in high hierarchy. And they've been judged through SAP, both of them. In any case, and the municipalities will not work because, as I said before, except for very small exceptions, this year the municipalities had not made notices for 2017, as they knew there was already the intention to extend contracts. Therefore, objectively, no problem arises, and this arrangement only comes to solve a problem in a few municipalities that have been caught up in the run-up and tendering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Minister. Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for a little while too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Today we have seen the Minister of Tourism table an amendment and its anguish for the coming years, for this season, for the tourist season and even for a period of time that gives the Dodecanese and island Greece the fight separately. On the occasion of this position and the fact that we have a roll-call vote today, Mr President, on the Nisser Prime Minister's announcement that he is suspending the abolition of reduced VAT rates on the islands for one year, I would like to remind him that this is a European acquis, which is now in force in accordance with the European Charter. On the other hand, I am tabling a number of points in the Minutes showing that the reduced rates of taxation apply throughout Europe and up to very low rates, from the North to the South. I would also like to say, Mr President, that in the Minutes, the institutional framework between 1987 and the 2000 amendment, which recorded the reasons why these VAT rates apply to the islands, which have not been abolished until now. I must also remind you, Mr President, that the statement by the Ministry of Finance on the abolition of these rates and the extension at the same time is the cause of the refugee problem. So we have two pounds. With regard to the suspension for a year, the Prime Minister also announced from the Maximos Mansion that, until this flow of refugees comes into force, the measure will be suspended. Does he assure us that for a year the refugee issue will be over? I guess not, because the consequences on tourism are very great and will last for many more years. The second element is that the suspension concerns the islands except Rhodes and Karpathos. Let me remind you, Mr President, that Rhodes has been affected by the refugee problem, like Carpathos. According to official indicators, more than thirty - six thousand immigrants and refugees have only spent the last year from Rhodes. The worst, Mr President, is that they are not only refugees but also immigrants. It tends to create a very difficult migration problem in the region. So I would ask, as was the case with Samothraki, that a legislative improvement submitted yesterday to the House by the Ministry of Finance should apply to Rhodes and Karpathos. We invite them even now to suspend this measure for Rhodes and Karpathos. We, as a New Democracy, had taken care of this measure for a long time. The Samara government had restrained any attacks on its abolition. The same is true of the government, because the anxiety of the citizens is enormous, as the Prime Minister of Nisserro has clearly said, in the presence of the bodies, mayors, the district manager of productive classes, that it will apply to the Dodecanese as a whole, unless the Prime Minister believes that Rhodes and Karpathos are not a Dodecanese. I am tabling a number of documents from bodies, chambers, chambers, municipalities and region pointing to this anguish and I very much ask the Government to suspend the measure for both Rhodes and Karpathos. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Consola. Mr. Lappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I will be supporting the amendment on the issue of legal instruments in the TAs. I address, in particular, the legal thought of fellow lawyers and all colleagues. Mr President, our country has been a global originality, making it compulsory for Ottas and their legal persons to bring an action, appeal and appeal. It is well known from the theory and case-law of civil procedure and of law in general, that, from Article 20 of the Constitution, a basic principle arises, that, like the right to appeal to the courts for legal protection, it is a right and discretion, and that is precisely the exercise of the procedural powers. Never can it be the subject of a mandatory provision, but it must be the duty of the parties to bring an action before the Court. Proceedings shall be chosen, shall be a right arising from Article 20, shall be judicial and shall be reserved only to Ottos and their organs. Do you want to put an insurance policy on it? After all, the text of the law is also provided for. This trial is to have a unanimous decision by the Economic Committee and assent of the Legal Adviser, which is the only person - knowing the data on the file, the case-file, assumptions and judgments of the judgment - to assess whether or not a court should be set up. After all, if we are to make the exercise of legal remedies compulsory - I repeat that it is a global originality for our country - then the self-interest and autonomy of the Ottawa guaranteed in Article 102 would be abolished. It cannot interfere with the state and tell the Ottas "do this legal instrument" or the other, because the autonomous nature of the proceedings is undone. We cannot legislate contrary to the Constitution, after all, it is a constant request for decades. But how was it legislated? Let us say that they are comitology conditions and that is how mistakes are intruded. But, on the other hand, political thoughts need to be rectified and something that we have afflicted most. Yes, in the years of surveillance, emergency and budgetary adjustments we can make mistakes and legislate such things. But you know, it's not just the defeat of politics towards the economy and the financial system. Unfortunately, it did not escape this defeat, in short or in many respects, I do not know - even justice, Mr President. We must now restore it. Therefore, the amendment signed by Mrs Theleritis, the speaker and many other colleagues, which says that the exercise of the trials is left to the discretion of the local government I and II bodies is something that is compatible, paralleled and provided for by our Constitution. If we really want to have a restored legal order in our country, we must now legislate. There is no room for manoeuvre because we must stop being black sheep, not only at pan-European, but also at global level.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Lappa. Mr Koudourras, Minister for Tourism, has the floor, if I understood correctly about a withdrawal of an amendment. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u194	Since the amendment under number 862 and expert 90 have not been understood and many colleagues have not understood that we are not amending the law, but we are coming and clarify that this law in this way, Law No.3270/2004, has nothing to do with Law No.4412/2016 on contracts, I withdraw it, as it is most of all and because I spoke with the independent authority, whose recommendation was "just clarify it to be covered by the staff when they sign up". We have just spoken to the independent authority, which has told us that this is the most important amendment. I'm withdrawing it. There doesn't have to be. They will give us their suggestion, which will say exactly what the amendment says. They're going to suggest it to us themselves, so that they can cover up the staff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Minister. And if you're kind enough, stay in the Chamber until someone comes to the cabinet. Thank you. Mrs. Thalerite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u196	The amendment, under general number 856, relates to the extension of the TSE programme for six months in order to complete the TTE projects and to ensure the absorption of funding. The second amendment, number 857, relates to the payroll of the persons employed in the elderly care centres, which are not covered by the NRP for this period until the next NRP is mediated. That is why the time has to be paid as laid down in the article, that is to say by the CFPs. The third amendment concerns the non-publishment of data in the central database. It is proposed to delete from the financial lists of fines, because these refer to the fact that the data were not published in the centralised database by the candidates who participated in the electoral process, so that there is a level playing field because some regions have extended and others have not, and have imposed a fine on the applicant's omission to submit their data to the central database. The fifth amendment concerns the Public Investment Programme and, in particular, the tendering contracts. According to the law that we voted on for contracts, he was supposed to start the competitive process after the expropriation process was completed and the decision came out. Here, in order to save time and cost which is in the interests of the Greek public and public works, it is proposed, after being discussed in the courts, that we do not expect the decision to be taken two and three years, but that the competitive process should be initiated so that it can earn time. Finally, an amendment concerning the Secretary-General. There is a clarification in the law that they must have a diploma or diploma in university or technical education. And it defines what technological education means. This is because in many regions the Court of Auditors did not accept what technical training means. And so there's a clarification that they're holders of a degree and an EIO, but also of technological education. Finally, there is another amendment concerning the implementation of democratic operation and protection of cooperative property. And it became the conversion from IAC to S.E. According to the law passed for cooperatives, there should be no shareholder with more than 20% dividends, i.e. shares. Before this process takes place, it should take into account the distribution rate of the shares held by the cooperatives prior to the conversion from RU to S.E... So there should be a ratio of cooperative units for conversion, as set out in the register book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Thalerite. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor for a moment from the Democratic Commit tee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. In the past few days, a parliamentary amendment was accepted by the Minister and then our question 'How many are concerned about and why does it come under a law?', the Minister's answer was that it concerns twenty people and is in the process of a judicial decision. It has been shown in hindsight that none of the two were true and the House was misled to vote for such provisions. That is why all of what has been seen here as 'female' - all these are parliamentary amendments - and what my colleague has just said about a few amendments - shows precisely the dismay of Parliament in the management, government and public administration, without this being the case of the relevant ministries. As there are many times in which we have been able to vote, we are telling you that as long as the Ministries do not take advantage of their services and of the partners who have a provision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and give it to Members - there are also the methods to do with the act of legislative content, the Constitution provides for this, if anything is urgent - we will in no way agree to continue this whole thing with the fumes, the ministerial amendments. That is why we are tabling a proposal to the House, which will be discussed in accordance with the procedure of amending the Rules of Procedure, according to which amendments by Members tabled in plenary can only be accepted by Ministers if they are relevant to the draft law in the short term and are mandatory in the report by the General Accounting Office of the State. No other parliamentary or ministerial amendment can be accepted unless it has these conditions. This mess we have today, as well as the day that the executive register was being discussed, cannot continue. It cannot, for example, be interpreted as precluding the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior, Ms. Theleritis making a government policy as if she were Minister and deleting fines! Mrs. Thalerite's fines. Oh, no! It may be fair to delete the fines, but it will be done in accordance with the procedure through the Ministry of Justice! It's no different! This game can't be played anymore! It may be necessary to pay social structures, but it will come with an amendment from the relevant Minister, Mrs Ahtsoglou, who was here and could have tabled it. It may be fair to say one thing or another, but finally this 'female' game here, the amendments! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu, throws the documents of the amendments into the air.]] This game is over! Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u199	Don't show, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u200	And they're less than yours!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u201	Mr Kegeroglu, regardless of whether you are right or wrong, the way in which you fly fellow Members has proved to be a parliamentary ethics. Don't make me call you in class. This style of throwing the amendments into the air by wanting to defend what we have been saying before - I repeat - if you are right or wrong, it is outside the character of this Chamber. I would ask you very much, even verbally, to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, I was influenced by Mr. Dritsa who had done something like that without having denounced him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u203	Each one takes his own conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u204	Let me tell you that it concerns workers who will stay on the street because there is an extension. Get the blame!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u205	You're making ruffles!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u206	You appointed them, not us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u207	You appointed them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, please. I would like to tell you that we are at a time when students have entered Parliament and are attending the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the first part of the 2nd Amalada High School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Maniatis, what are you asking for intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u211	As a parliamentary representative, I ask the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u212	Apparently you'll have the floor. Just tell us what you're asking for the reason, to know the time I'm going to give you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u213	Because today is a black day for the Greek Parliament, it is the humiliation of the parliamentary process. The Greek Parliament is used consciously by SYRIZA Government - ANEL as a washing machine for government incapacity. Mr President, you are presided over - because the responsibilities are also of the Bureau - these are the amendments. Do you see them? It's a hundred forty pages. That's the bill. It's 12 pages. Is that what you, Mr President, honour you as President-in-Office? The Conference of Presidents honors you? Do you know what the Minister of Culture told us, to whom I did not answer only for reasons of respect for her previous term of office? He told us that there is a law of the Ministry of Culture, which was tabled as a late amendment a few hours ago and changes a law that has been in force for thirteen years. Why couldn't that happen right after the holidays? Why do you know where the government is being driven consciously? Conscientiously he wants to make a process in which social accountability exists. Because this Chamber is the climax of social accountability and the government wants decisions to be made only in the Maximos Mansion in enclosed rooms, where, as the Prime Minister showed yesterday, there will not be any civilians, no cameras, no journalists, when he set the example and gave it just two years ago, where everything was a tool in a public life-threatening strategy of the country. So because things have a limit, we have said that this government must stand up and leave now. But you also have responsibility for the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u214	Is this a position, Mr President, as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u215	The Bureau is responsible for not allowing the dignity of all the wings of this House to be humiliated anymore. And the responsibilities will be politically attributed to you, Mr President. It is a bill with seventeen articles, nineteen ministerial amendments and no more than fifty other Members of Parliament, half of whom are at the request of the Ministers, to save the report from the General Accounting Office of the State, so that there is no assessment of the cost of each MEP's amendment that the Minister accepts, so that the Greek Parliament can vote, without the Greek people knowing how much each decision, at the request of the Minister, costs. It's over! The sand to the Greek people is over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u216	Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Xydakis, wait a minute. Before I give the floor, I have to say that, in essence, not the specifics of Mr Maniotis's words, I agree. I agree that the tabling of amendments without prior discussion in committees undermines the parliamentary procedure. We have said so in the Conference of Presidents. We are making huge efforts and reducing legislative acts and normally coming to the relevant bills. For the specifics you mentioned, I have no idea. Mr Xydakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, obviously wants to say something. If necessary, Mrs. Manolakou. You have the floor, Mr. Xydakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, thank you. I am amazed by the violence, the cruelty and especially the theatre, because here we claim the YouTube one-minute to play the channels or the sites today. There is a basis for the objections and Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Maniatis, but the style, phrase and context are humiliatingly the same process. They defend the process in the most virtuous way. That is the one point. As for the second amendment by Mr Maniotis, I assured him. Let him read it! It is a legislative thought that exists since 2015. Obviously the previous Minister had completed it and it is not Mrs Connordou's product. If he doesn't want it, let him vote against it. Let's say it. There was neither fraud nor machinery here in this particular case. And Mr. Kegeroglu acknowledges that some people who were appointed by others must not pass black Christmas. Can this Parliament within this framework of custody and comitology give a small ray of light...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u220	They can't make it right now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u221	You don't want to? Good! You want to throw the papers in the air! That's it! I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u222	Since June there has been the problem!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u223	I have to say this: we have a very serious draft law on spatial planning, which talks about the national economy, about a development thought, about how we settle space, home and national economy. There have been a few amendments in this bill. But it always happens at the end of the year. The Minister, Mr Stathakis, at the beginning of today's sitting, said that eighty-eight amendments were cumulated at the end of the year. Would you like some to leave them outside? Let us discuss this with a world style and with respect both in the Chamber and in the democracy. That's all I had to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u224	Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u225	I would like to remind you that since the beginning of this part-session the Communist Party of Greece has made two requests to the Chair which, as I understand it, were accepted. One was that it should be said by the Minister which parliamentary amendments are acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u226	Immediately afterwards, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u227	Ms. Manolaku, the Minister will do it right after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u228	At the same time, for those who will be accepted and which are concerned with another ministry, the respective Minister will also be present to know whether or not he supports them. Secondly, we have called for a tolerance of time for the amendments on which we do not have time to put ourselves. Finally, I would like to say at the moment that the Members who have tabled amendments have every right to support them. Now, as to how everyone judges them, that is of course an individual problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u229	As far as the speakers are concerned, I see Mr Dritsa. Mr Dritsa, you have the floor for a moment to support your amendment. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. I wish to support the amendment, with a general number of 870 and a special 98, which I tabled yesterday, on the subject of 'Urgent needs for the supply of fuel to the Port Authority, Greek Coast Guard and Shipbuilding'. You will allow me, Mr President - I will not abuse time - to fully agree with what you said in reply to Mr Maniotis. But before you and before this House, I have experience of being a minister for twenty months. Just because my parliamentary term has made me respect these procedures, I have tried as Minister not to violate these provisions, and I have done so a few times. However, I left behind a number of twenty such amendments that I did not bring them, and I did not ask my fellow ministers to bring them, precisely for that reason, to respect Parliament's Rules of Procedure and the data with which we have to operate. I don't know if I won, but surely neither the public nor citizens nor services nor many others won it. Because there must always be the criterion relating to whether these amendments are feasibility amendments or necessity amendments. And that must be in our critiques. She can't be completely missing. We know the tradition of other times, where there were night's amendments, but which were appropriate amendments. And that distinction must be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u231	You make them day after day!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u232	The amendment to which I referred extends from 31-120/2016 to a semester, up to 30-6/2017, the provision of Article 75(2) of Law 4413/2016. It refers to the possibility of inclusive supply of fuel and emergency services for regional services of the Port House and the Pilot Agency. This is a short-term arrangement for services in the meantime to serve and complete their already started processing in order to adapt to the provisions of Law 4412/2016 on procurement. This amendment does not create any financial costs. It is certain that the General Accounting Office of the State would confirm this. The Ministry's DG to the Ministry confirms this, and the Minister, Mr. Stathakis, has the GGO's attestation. The Minister's away. He cannot be present to defend it and propose it himself. The amendment is absolutely necessary. There has been a competition, but for the regional structures of the Port House, no contractors came to the competition. A new notice for 2017 is expected. I would like to inform the House and the Bureau that this procedure is one of all aspects covered. I would also ask the Minister to accept it and the House to approve it, because it is really urgent and absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. Mr Georgios Stathakis has the floor to tell us which amendments he is accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u234	First of all, I owe Mr. Maniots a statistical fact. As I quoted in my introduction that it was normal practice for the last bill of the year to have too many amendments, parliamentary and ministerial, I am tabling the figures. [[At this point, the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One hundred and two of you have been the amendments to the respective last bill of 2014. The evidence is there to study them. [[Noise in the Chamber]] From the outset I asked for understanding of the cries that were heard about the unprecedented and so forth. I'm not going into your argument about what's the worst practice. I have made it clear from the outset that the amendments that I accepted in the last bill belong to three categories. I believe that this idea is being respected. There are no appropriate amendments. It is absolutely essential. They include elements of the second assessment and have a time limit on 31 December. Let me turn to ministerial amendments first, starting with four amendments from the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. I am referring to Amendment No 858/86, which deals with the possibility of carrying out energy inspections not only by inspectors as natural persons, but also by legal persons who have as employees of energy inspectors under a contract of employment. Therefore, in addition to individual inspectors, legal persons having energy inspectors may also carry out such audits. The second amendment is 859/87. It concerns the organization of the oil market and other provisions. In fact, there is a lifting of restrictions or weakening of the criteria of the initial capital, the size of the minimum storage capacity, the minimum facilities etc., in order to facilitate the integration into the market of mineral oils and other undertakings. The possibility of disposing of biofuels is therefore extended, as is the possibility of carrying out the activity of marketing mineral oils in EIA and IE companies. A new marketing licence is added for the Aegean islands, excluding Crete, Rhodes and Argosaronikos, with a minimum share capital of EUR 150,000. It also reduces the minimum required volume of storage spaces, for LPG bottles it decreases to twenty thousand and a number of other provisions relating to the reduction of conditions, to include other companies in this market in order to increase competition. The third Ministerial Amendment of our Ministry refers to the Evia interconnection of IPTO.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u235	What amendment is this, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u236	It is Amendment No 873/101. The issue, as you know there, IPTO has paid, while it has actually set the line, at a cost of about 81 million. We are now talking about the regime in which wind producers are to be connected in the South Evia region. Here it is specified: First, the method of payment within one year, i.e. 2017, of the costs of connection to that line of IPTO. That is the first paragraph, it provides, 20% -40% -40% within 12 months. That is to say, a advance when they obtain the license to connect to IPTO's cable. Within one year they will pay the full price as determined by the relevant law. In the second paragraph and in the third paragraph, it is specified that no operating aid contracts will be concluded outside competitive procedures for power amplifiers of more than one MW and wind power stations of more than six MW until the adoption of a Ministerial Decision provided for in Law 4414/2016. This regulation is necessary for the compatibility of the legislation with the decision of the European Commission approving the new EIA support framework in our country. With the third paragraph - it is on the same subject - we are trying not to divide the licenses into this system, so there are any problems of circumvention of the new institutional framework, which will lead the holders of production licences to seek the division and separation of their existing production licences into two or more licences. Finally, the fourth paragraph provides an extension of the maintenance fee for 2015-2016, until the end of 2016 and 30 March 2017 respectively, and stipulates that for those years public hospitals are not required to pay this annual maintenance fee. With this arrangement we motivate hospitals to invest in electricity production in order to reduce their energy costs. The fourth amendment is 877/105, and it concerns IPTO and the law on the transfer of shares and their valuation to the new scheme, which I would remind you that under this law it will be a new scheme with a majority of the government of 24% purchased by the Chinese side. This transitional period shall be completed on 10 March. The Act - as it was - predicted that the valuation, the transaction of the shares of IPTO would be made on the basis of the price paid by those who won the competition, that is, the Chinese company that took 24%. From the point of view of state aid - and once we cross-checked it - the price paid by the contestants, the Chinese side that won - includes, in the view of the principle, the goodwill of administration and the goodwill of strategic planning. So the determination of the price, which will pass into the public's hands, requires that there be a new valuer who will reduce the goodwill of administration and the goodwill of strategic planning. This is what this amendment does, which means that the public company should hire an independent valuer in order to reconstruct the exact price in order not to be considered State aid and dynamic the whole agreement. These are the four ministerial amendments concerning the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. The ministerial amendments tabled by other Ministers are accepted in their entirety. I would mention them - they are all, except for Mrs Kundura's amendment, which has been withdrawn - so. It is 830, 831, 838, 839, 852, 858, 859, 860, 862 withdrew from Mrs Koudoura, 871, 872, 873, 874, 875, 876, 877, 878, 879 and 881. You'll give me some more time for the MEPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u237	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for some clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u239	Specifications. Of course, Mr. Maniot. Minister, Mr. Maniotis would like you to clarify a few things. Here you go, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u240	The first question concerns the table presented to us by the Minister, on the alleged amendments that were tabled in 2014, when the government fell and nearly elections had been called. He told us it was a hundred two. Minister, you're probably making a mistake. The ministerial amendments, if I counted well, are twelve.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u241	I've got them in red.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u242	The ministers, then, are twelve, not a hundred two. Unless you, who brought twenty-two, have already "drung" and you just haven't understood it yet. However, then the ministers are much less than the ones you have tabled as government today. That's for the truth of the data. A little lie. It's all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u243	And none of the Members of this House then were accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u244	It was the government's last bill. Something like that happens now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Besiropoulos, a little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u246	I have three questions for the Minister, for the amendments. Minister, you obviously accepted the amendment so that they could carry out energy inspections and legal persons. Today Greece has around 12 and a half thousand energy inspectors and this is constantly expanding. Are you aware that if you go through this, you are actually creating a hindrance to engineers and especially to young engineers, who will be blackmailed by a number of smart guys to sell their signature to young engineers for 100 euros a month? And what will the respective legal consequences of both the engineer and the legal person now be? Why are you doing this? Second question in the second amendment on the trade in oil. I really would like to ask you who recommended this amendment, because - I am not saying that it is, but something I do not like - when I see restrictions on the oil stores, when I see too much air circulating, I smell an air-trafficking facility. The more stringent the specifications for oil companies with their obligation to have warehouses, to have specific accounting records, to have the minimum capital, etc., the more difficult it is to have smuggling procedures. Check it out - I always think you have good will, personally - do not be in a general logic of the Holy Grail, which is to unleash everything and wherever you are completely intertwined with the New Democracy, lead to a dead end. And the last question. Here I raise my hands and want your political interpretation. Mr President, the last question says that the Chinese buying 24% of IPTO paid 320 million - those who follow them, we know - which means that each share of IPTO - costs so much. Under the law, the government should give the same percentage, the same amount per share in PPC to buy the state its own percentage in order to satisfy Mr. Skourlets, who wanted to save 51% of IPTO. Their right. It's about a government policy. But what does the Minister say here in the documentation of the amendment? That the Chinese paid more than the state would pay, and that's why they put on other valuers, because they paid for the goodwill of administration and the goodwill of strategic planning. In other words, Mr President and Minister, do you know what you told us? That the great boss of IPTO will be the Chinese, which is why they paid for the goodwill of administration and the goodwill of strategic planning, which should not pay the Greek State, which is supposed to be, but which is why you are also falsifying the world - that it will be the great boss of IPTO. The question, then, is this: The Chinese are suckers and have paid goodwill, or is something else being played, which the House of Greece does not understand? Mr President, I have these two questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u247	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u248	The protest, if I recall the papers that Mr Kegeroglu threw, were the parliamentary amendments and I think the truth was restored to all the ministers and parliamentarians who were tabled at that time. That's all I owed. I filed it in the House. I do not think it is to be assessed by colleagues. Secondly, I begin with the two comments on oil and environmental inspectors. Both are part of a debate, which has been completed and I imagine you are aware of the OECD study on individual measures to facilitate this more competitive situation in many individual markets. I find the formalities excessive that individual environmental inspectors are being destroyed if a system prohibits any legal form of company, partnership, cooperative or legal company, which of course also has employees, that it overthrows any procedure, which will benefit, I do not know what, who and they will be damaged, I do not know who others. It is an obvious, self-evident, I would say, modernisation and, as you know, the functions of these markets are constantly expanding with the additional legislation and the new wide range of energy activities, which all these operators are involved in. So the exclusion of legal persons was an anachronism that obviously had to be corrected. The same applies to mineral oils. The terms, as you know, were only anonymous companies, so we had a complete blockade of more small and medium-sized enterprises, but it seems from the outset that there is no reason for that. It does not change the terms, conditions, characterisation, security and rigour of the law on what each company should do. Scales are being reduced in order to make it easier for other companies, which have so far been excluded because they were specific types of public limited companies and only very large scales as a minimum so that a company can enter. And that is within the OECD the agreed ones. I repeat that the Greek Government has had a long and creative debate for one year to come to issues that facilitate the better functioning of the markets and that has also been part of our strategy. On the subject of IPTO, the debate with the central state aid unit has had as a peril in this matter: a company that comes out of Europe gains two advantages. It is considered by the assessment of State aid that the price it pays is ready to pay a premium - the rate can be differentiated, that is to be valued - in order, first, to enter the European market. This has also been done in the respective competitions and partial privatisation, such as in Portugal and Italy, where companies that entered out of Europe - Chinese in this regard - are also paying a premium to enter the European market. The second is of course the premium administration. It has nothing to do with what you said about reality. There is an agreement now of 51% that will be public with the 24% holder on how to run the company. It naturally maintains a strong public presence in the management system, but also provides the necessary safeguards for the management of the company on the part of the private shareholder. This is therefore absolutely true that the way in which it will be valued, the money that the public will pay to PPC. They should be valued in a specific way that does not include this premium. That was necessary in order to ensure that it is completed, that 51% remains under public control. This was a great achievement of the government, as well as the fact that it will be completed on 10 March in a coordinate way, lawful and will not dynamise this process at any stage. That is what we are doing with today's amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u249	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the process. Mr Vorides was one of the last speakers. As you know, we have very little time, two minutes, we can hardly support the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u250	No, I want to make an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u251	You will obviously place yourself on the table, but for an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u252	Degrading. For amendment, I shall speak anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u253	I'm not gonna dictate what kind of position you're gonna make.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u254	No, because you told me that I would support the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u255	We are now in the process we are talking about - political position - for the amendments, not for other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u256	For the amendments, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u257	I can hear you, Mr Vorides, and we have a little time, two or three minutes, as everyone has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u258	The misunderstanding, Mr President, was because you said that I would support an amendment. I shall dismantle an amendment, not support it or attempt, in any case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u259	That's your right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u260	First of all, I think that here - a very rapid comment - this situation with the amendments is unacceptable, leniently unacceptable. I heard your argument, Minister, that the same - or something similar - was happening at the last meeting of the previous government. I should therefore like to wish that the last sitting of the House, with this government, is that, since the analogy and the association that is being provoked, is that. Now, it is characteristic, because it is not possible to introduce such types of amendments. I am referring to the amendment tabled by Mrs Gerovas, to which you now hear what is being regulated. We have some data. Recruitment was made to various public bodies and OTAs. Those recruitments were extended until 2016. These recruitments were deemed to be non-legislative, by a decision of the Court of Auditors, so that the agencies could not pay. Therefore, this has led to the denouncement of contracts being terminated, precisely because they cannot be paid. Watch out. The workers appealed to the courts. There are already the first judgments in interlocutory proceedings, which workers lose their case, because the courts consider that these recruitments are not legal. And Mrs Gerovali comes here and instead of complying and giving solutions, what does she do? It extends these contracts until 31-12-2017. And they come and say, "But we have done an APA process and we can hire them legally according to the APA process." And what does Mrs. Gerovali say? ‘You can hire them, but after they have finished, after 31-12-2017, in 2018’. Excuse me, is this a serious piece of legislation? In other words, you come and say we have our own, now there is a problem, and the others, who have gone under the ADP procedure, can not wait, because we are still bringing in an illegal extension of these specific terms. Excuse me, but it is totally unacceptable and that explains, Minister, why you are now legislating and why you are legislating in this way. Legislate in this way, because all that you are obviously going through is such, scandalous, unacceptable. Otherwise, you would allow the debate to be carried out in full transparency, in full parliamentary order, what we are going to do. Well, that's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... He has to retire. And you know, you're not making it easy for people, you're creating a problem for them. You also raise a problem for workers in the local government, and you are in fact bringing your Rusphetological policy to the heads and workers and the agencies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Vorides. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u262	(Minister for Environment and Energy): Because Mr. Vorides was gone when the thorough discussion was held, he tries to steal your colleague's glory. And it's not right. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u263	It's done with consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u264	My colleague is present for stealing his glory. Consent became theft. It's consensual theft.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u265	(Minister of Environment and Energy): Because I was in Ethiopia, while Mr Vorides was absent from what he seems, I have to say that we have followed a much more extensive exchange of arguments, including his arguments of how he creates additional costs to the municipalities or not, but also dozens of other arguments, which I have heard with very strong conviction that it was a very documented objection, which was answered, but by Mrs Gerovasili, as long as she was here. So I have nothing to add and propose anything more than to look at this very good dialogue that took place a while ago in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u266	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Amalialada High School (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To tell students and students that you are following a legislative process. There is a bill from the Ministry of Environment and Energy on spatial planning and sustainable development. We're on our way to the end of the process. There's a debate in the House. After one, one and a half hours, perhaps less, we will vote for this bill and, if it is approved by this House, it will become the law of the state. We are now on the point where the parliamentary representatives of the parties will speak. Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, if there is to be an overall position on the amendments, the Minister may first tell us if he accepts some of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u268	Sure. Mr Stathakis therefore has the floor to tell us which of the parliamentary amendments he is accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u269	Good. There are twenty-seven of the parliamentary amendments. I will stand one by one in two words for each one if necessary. I'm starting at the first. Amendment No 816/72 is accepted and concerns derogations for the construction of existing sacred churches. Secondly, the amendment under number 825/73, which refers to the issue of suspending administrative acts and protocols from deposit - an application until decision is taken. It refers to the contradiction that I apply to the Forestry for "legislation" or not of large buildings, micro-interventions that have precedented in the forest. In the course of the year, until the office has delivered its opinion, it is obliged by the legislature, in order not to be considered as failure to do so, to carry out administrative acts against what has already been requested, to make his application. It therefore normalises that the adoption of administrative acts is suspended, i.e. it does not require the master to carry out administrative acts until it assesses and responds to the specific application made. The amendment under number 832/76 concerns the transfer of land to municipalities, communities with a view to recognising property ownership. It is Mr Lazaridis' amendment, which has analysed the matter for a long time. It is acceptable, however, that a phrase should be added. The phrase we add is 'to have been translated into the relevant mortgage office', that is not only to say, it is not just what has been done, but that the whole process has been done and it is not only missing publication, but has been transferred to the relevant mortgage office. This is the key point and I only accept it under these conditions. Amendment No 834/77 concerns facilitating the installation of systems of independent units that promote the energy efficiency of buildings. It's acceptable. Amendment No 835/78 unfortunately cannot be accepted. It is a matter that is very important to Florina. I pledge publicly that we will speed up the adoption of the respective presidential decree on the placement of the university and the schools in the region concerned. The next, Amendment No 854/82 is not accepted. He has retired one who had tabled another group of MPs. It is not acceptable that the one that has not been withdrawn should also be accepted. Amendment No 855/83 is inadmissible. Amendment No 856/84 is acceptable, concerning the extension of the TSE programme. Amendment No 857/85 on the payroll of staff from the Elderly Day Care Centres and the Day Care Centre is accepted. Amendment No 861/89 is not accepted. It's Mr. Tragakis, I think so. The next six amendments to be tabled are accepted. I shall start with Amendment No 863, which concerns the non-publishment of data in the central database. It is a provision which has to do with nominations to trade unions. Amendment No 864/92 is accepted. It is the extension of those who are in the law of arbitrary law who end their three-year term. Another year is given and there are, in essence, four years in which this process is completed. Amendment No 865/93, which deals with the equation of CEEs with TEIs for general secretariats of municipalities, graduates of technology, is accepted. Amendment No 866/94, concerning the extension of the possibility of seconding to the Board of Governors, is accepted. Amendment No 867/95 is accepted. I'll come back to her. I don't remember who she is. I'll check it out for a second. And Amendment 868/96, concerning the technical councils and an ambiguity of the applicable law on the functioning of the technical boards, is accepted, but by deleting the last paragraph of the proposed provision, which is "From the entry into force of this provision provided for in d.o.100/2016 instruments and responsibilities are transferred to the Ministry of Tourism". This verse is deleted and the previous one remains exactly as it is. The next amendment 869/97 has been withdrawn. Amendment No 880/98, analysed by Mr Dritsa, is accepted. The next one is Amendment 880/108, which relates to the exemption from tax and insurance information to those affected by natural disasters - earthquakes, and refers to those who receive benefits from the earthquakes and disasters that have been made - is Mrs Theophevette - and is accepted. The next amendment is 882/110, which concerns the exception of the Private Debt Management Secretariat by L.4400/2016. He's one of my former responsibilities there. It facilitates the system of secondments to this new Private Debt Management Service set up two months ago, which will manage the entire red loan system and will be recruited mainly by the wider public sector. This amendment is acceptable. Amendment No 883/111 is for the deletion of certain amounts relating to three non-governmental organisations. They refer to the Greek, they were clubs which had housing there and then, by various legal procedures, ended up in the courts with heavy fines, which, obviously, cannot be paid by these organisations. It's Mr. Balaura's.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u270	Which is accepted, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u271	Yes, it's accepted. Amendment No 884/112 is accepted. It is a cross-party amendment concerning the status of the sacred monasteries of Mount Athos. It contains the way in which the grant agreed this year will be considered to be sponsorship, with what this entails. Amendment No 885/13 concerns the extension of the theatrical and cinema leases for five years. It's accepted. Amendment No 886/14 concerns legal proceedings within the local government agencies and officials when a preliminary ruling has been made. Instead of waiting for a final and secondary decision, it is possible to resolve this issue by means of an extrajudicial compromise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u272	Can it be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u273	Yes, it's accepted. Amendment No 887/115 cannot be accepted. Amendment No 888/16 cannot be accepted. It is also about the agricultural cooperatives. Amendment No 889/117, concerning the extension of the law on the dumping of workers, is accepted. Amendment No 867/95, which we accepted, is about the expropriation procedure and the opening of the competitive procedure. There is, in fact, a parallel procedure which shortens time. It concerns projects, for which, as you know, the legislator provides that expropriations must first be completed, and then the project will be announced. With the proposed amendment, these two are actually taking place at the same time and have a shorter process. I think I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u276	You have the floor, Mr. Jelloney.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, this is a cross-party amendment tabled. All three proposals in relation to cooperatives have actually been rejected. It is an issue that has been agreed and has a deadline of 31 December and are being led innocent today, which may have sentences up to imprisonment. And there was at least one agreement between three parties to table the same amendments and all three have been tabled and rejected. I really am asking myself: Who are these cooperative administrations struggling for so many days here? Who don't understand the problem of being innocent in prison? They accept the amendments by one Member, and here there is a date of 31 December, which ends the suspension until the final liquidation has been made to give rise to the responsibilities. Ten days now we have come into a joint procedure to agree on these amendments, which are the same. Finally, let the cooperatives who hear us that the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict does not want to solve the problem, it simply enlarges it and motivates them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u278	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u280	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u281	Since I was the signatory to this amendment, Mr President, on behalf of SYRIZA, we have really said that if the parties agree, each of them will make its own amendment with the same content, which will give a suspension of the administrative, criminal and civil consequences of the associations of agricultural organizations. Until an hour ago, there was no proposed by the New Democracy, which was in line with the content of the joint proposal, namely our own and the Democratic Assent. Because, in fact, the Minister is not present - he is not present in Crete - these agreements could not be made. That's why. There is no other reason why we as a party say 'no' to this amendment. Unfortunately, the Minister for Rural Development is in Crete and we did not have the time. And the New Democracy just now, just now, he filed it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u282	Two and a half hours ago, we testified her! It's not a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u283	Okay. Anyway, because we're talking to the committees, we said that these are agreements...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u284	Mr Lappa, however, you will allow me to say that there is a deadline for 31 December.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u285	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u286	In other words, we cannot accept what you say, that is to say go and then see the Minister for Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, I will tell you. Because the courts with the new year start after 12 months, at the first sittings, at any sitting of this House by 12 months of the month, we will have the opportunity to reach agreement and restore this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u288	Now we have to give it a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u289	How do you mean? In what way?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u290	Let us say that the deadline is extended until 28 February or 31 March.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u291	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u292	These are three amendments from three parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u293	I don't know if that's possible. Minister, can we say something about this or anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, for these two, there is no case today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u295	Yes, sir. Good. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. This is the first time I've had the floor today. I shall begin with a comment on the number of amendments tabled by the Minister. It tabled a document on the amendments tabled at the last meeting of 2014, which, as my colleague Mr Voridis rightly said, was in fact the last meeting of the government to be held. Of course, the gatherings are similar and wicked. But from that point on, I'm over it. The question is: It is not important how many amendments have been tabled, but how many amendments have been accepted. If I counted correctly, the Minister only accepted seventeen of the eighteen ministerial amendments - beyond which he rejected - and nineteen of the twenty-eight amendments. The total is thirty-seven amendments, from forty-six, which have been tabled. Mr President, I think that this figure should be compared to the fact that we have a bill of extension of about ten pages and sixteen articles before us. We have a number of amendments. We read this bill and compare it to the amendment, and we see that the amendment often goes beyond the bill itself, which we are discussing at the moment. In fact, many of these amendments, which the Minister accepted - of course, have been introduced under the responsibility of the government - concern bills within the bill. We consider this practice to be a bad legalization. I personally cannot accept Mr. Minister's argument 'but, you know, you did so too.' The current government was supposed to come out under other conditions and would bring about a different parliamentary air. This, unfortunately, seems day after day that is not the case. Unfortunately, it is a continuation of the bad legacy that has taken place in the past few years. Instead of going beyond this, we see that, in fact, not only does it prolong it, but it is often much worse than the one we have seen with previous governments in previous years. So in no case is there any justification for the fact that so many amendments have been introduced today, for many of which we have seen - because the Minister has had the capacity to refer to them one by one - that they are not referring to the closure of the evaluation, but were amendments, which are made to resolve local issues many times and amendments, which are totally irrelevant to this draft law. But you will allow me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to extend some of these amendments to the time left. The amendment with a general number of 835 and a special 78 - which, fortunately, the Minister has not accepted - may refer to a personal and local issue in Florina, but I think we have now exceeded level and see that even topographically they are tabled to parliamentary amendments. Amendment No 859, and Amendment No 87, we see that it is a ministerial amendment, which introduces - pay attention! - 11 provisions. The bill has sixteen articles, and this amendment itself introduces eleven provisions. In other words, as I have said before, it is a bill within the bill that you are discussing. There was another amendment, which fortunately did not accept it, although it is unprecedented to accept a ministerial amendment from the Minister of Government. I am referring to the amendment tabled by Mrs Kouduras, which in a kind manner she has tried three times to justify her decision, which is, in essence, an amendment to what she refers to. It refers to a procedure for the advertising expenditure of the EOT, in a particular sector, of course, which evades public procurement, from the framework that exists for public procurement. And there may be every good intention from the Minister in question, but because here we legislate and legislate for the next generations and for the next and next ministers, those and those who come to this particular competence, we cannot put down the corresponding differences. Of course, if it is combined with what the Minister had brought in three days ago in the Banking Code bill, namely that the EOT now has the right to go directly to the sums of up to EUR 200,000 - look, it was EUR 20 000, it doubled and it did 200,000 - then it makes sense for the meetings of bad past practices. In other words, we can think about what it means to give a board of directors of any public body such as this, to be able to make direct assignments of EUR 200,000, in conjunction with the amendment - which has fortunately been withdrawn and I hope that it will not be tabled at least in this form - which enabled the same body to escape the framework that concerns public procurement. I come to Amendment No 864, and Amendment No 92, which was accepted by the Minister. We see here that the three-year deadline for the arbitrary procedure is extended. I would say that there is a political hypocrisy here. We see, on the one hand, the rapporteur, Mr Diaras, a sensitivity, if you would like, on the ecological issues and on the other, the deadline from three to four years for a new generation of arbitrary people to be extended. Let me remind you, in fact, of the terrible discussions that were taking place here in plenary on the part of the then Anti-Population, of the SYRIZA, for this law, and now suddenly we see that in order for more guidelines and cases to be set up, it is from three years to four years. These, not in contrast to the substance of the case, but in demonstrating the political hypocrisy that exists from the point of view of SYRIZA on this matter. In Amendment No 865 and in Amendment No 93 we see that there is a retroactive force from 29-12/2012, which we believe is possibly covering some photographic provisions for specific persons. We are therefore voting against it. In Amendment No 867, and in particular No 95 here, one really deserves to read the explanatory statement, which says in particular: 'The specific amending provision is introduced to avoid unnecessary bureaucratic burdens and unnecessary burdens on the participants in the tenders for the presentation of a number of legal documents'. Take note of what article it refers to, ladies and gentlemen. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official A few months ago, the same Members who tabled this amendment voted for a law and a few weeks later, saying "the law that we voted as SYRIZA, as a majority, in fact, imposed an unnecessary bureaucratic burden and unnecessary burden". And I ask: when did they know they were legislating properly, then or now? They don't know what they're legislating? They are the same Members. We are talking about a parliamentary amendment, and I will not personally mention who is tabling it, so that there are no personal retaliations. The amendment with a general number 879 and a special 107 is similar to 859. There's actually a bill inside the bill. Ten provisions relating to the EEA, the rebate and the clawback mentioned by the Minister for Health. It's another example of a bad piece of legislation. I will conclude with two amendments which have really made me a very good impression. The first is Amendment No 883 and special No 111, which actually deletes not only increases, fines, but also capital for some private associations that do - look out! - arbitrary use of public building or space. I'm saying that for the Minutes. I should like to end by congratulating the Parliamentary amendment number 885 and specific number 113, which, in essence, if you read the explanatory statement, gives five more years for the granting of a licence for cinemas and theatres. Note, however, that it refers to cinemas and theaters whose license has expired since 2011. The additional five years are therefore practically until 31 December 2016. In other words, we are actually coming here to cover some illegality that has taken place over the past few years, to cover specific cases, perhaps even 'our own' people, who have been using these areas arbitrarily. Because this provision will apply for the next 10 days and retrospectively comes to cover some possible and criminal responsibilities of particular individuals. I should like to close, Mr President, by saying this: in no case does the previous bad example of a misdemeanour, as I mentioned in my introduction, justify, in order for the government today to do what I have described earlier, namely thirty-six amendments, the seventeen of which are ministerial and the other nineteen - the majority - to come to you. There's no such precedent. Furthermore, with regard to the number that the Minister has mentioned at the beginning, which the document has also submitted, he will see that - because he is diligent - there have been no exceptions, apart from the ministerial, Minister. I would ask you next year, with the new parliamentary term at least to stop. That should also be put to the Bureau, because there is a responsibility from the Bureau too. We will not accept the continuation of this unacceptable legislative procedure under any circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u297	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Kefaloniannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute, to make a comment on Amendment No 863, to help a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u299	Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u300	Minister, you have accepted the parliamentary amendment number 863, on the fines for regional elections in 2010. The New Democracy could vote in favour of it if it was not horizontally deletion of the fines, but there were two conditions: one, that there should be no fault of the manager for the non-publishing in the database, and the other, that this fine has not been judged in law. I put it at least last, because now it's been known to me. I've come to an agreement. You can with legislative improvement or with a new amendment accept this and vote in favour of the New Democracy, under the two conditions I have mentioned, in Amendment 863. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. Minister, would you like to say something about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u302	Not now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u303	All right, let's leave it for later or whenever you want. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u304	Madam President, wouldn't it be better for me to speak first?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u305	Madam President, let Mr Maniotis, the parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Reconciliation first speak, and then I speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Maniotis, would you like to precede Mr. Xydakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u307	Because, I guess, he'll want to talk after me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u308	Good, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u309	Ladies and gentlemen, I confess to you that I would like the climate to be different today in this Chamber. It's the last day before the House closes. There are holidays coming. I had the hope that there could be a climate of national understanding, much more when we see the 'typhoons' that surround our country in general. We see terrorism setting up festivals in neighbouring countries: Turkey, Germany, a few months ago in France, Belgium. There is a deep need in this place to unite the forces that believe that Greece can. Unfortunately, the climate once again was dynamised by the government alone. Once again we are talking about a climate of tension, which is being created consciously, because only through the tension can this government be held in power. He's been detained so far by telling incredible lies. The lies end, however, and the only remaining one is social automation, the one social group across the other, and the exceptional tension in the political scene, so that the image of something is created every time. The worst of all, however, is that this tension consciously and deliberately is caused by the government and international image of the country. So we see various cases where, on the one hand, the government decides what the sum of EUR 631 million will do and, at the same time, is kneeling - today or yesterday - by Mr Tsakalotou's letter, with a confession that he will not do so again. Rayadiation! A government that does not stand at its feet because it is not supported by the Greek people. Even worse, there is an absolute impairment and disappearance of each system of values: values of aesthetics, values of respect for the individual's personality. We are with a government that deliberately puts everything below the minimum, because that is the only way it can survive. These days we have seen various events. We live the thriller of who will run the National Bank, Piraeus Bank, the Greek banking system. Have you realised that your Government, which, colleagues of SYRIZA, supports, after the tragic mistakes of Tsipras and Varoufakis, who have failed the Greek banking system and passed to the capital controls, is today following as a discomfortful viewer foreigners, the TSF, to fight with each other for who will command the National Bank or Piraeus Bank? Does that honor you? Is it an honour for the Greek Government to have a nonexistent banking system, on whose body the various major investors fight, not to whisper a word about it and to remain unintentionally in the country's largest banking institutions for many months? Dikilikia, pudding, buffaloes standing up and at the end "yes" in all Mr. Shoeble. Dreams of Mr. Tsipras! Only with the dice the sixs is won by Mr. Symble and for the Greek people there is only the assodus. Because Mr. Tsipras is Mr. Soible's golden sponsor, who finally acted on his dream of colonialism. Ninety-nine years has been sold to foreigners with the signature Tsipras! I repeat once again. We as a Democratic Incorporation of this colonial law will change it and will be one of our central demands in the next elections whenever they are made. We should be voted on by the Greek citizens to overthrow this unacceptable colonial law. We have another issue. Yesterday we watched the government - an observer - see again the insecurity of the citizens of Athens, too, the Mayor of Athens, logically, calling for the resignation of the Minister of Public Order. Three more trolleys were burned yesterday. Public property. The country's security system does not see anything, because the political orders above are that "do not move on to anything". Because they are purely political orders, without any responsibility for the leadership or officials of the Greek Police. The 1.5m euros costing three SYRIZA comrades and comrades, who's gonna pay for it? It's the property of the Greek people. You guys who let them burn the trolleys or vandalize the cancellation machines at the U.S.S.S. stations that destroy public property, who'll pay for them? Why don't you proceed to a process, to be blamed on themselves and on their families? And why do you let Mr. Spirtzi, the other 'Gigant' of politics, receive urban traffic profitable at the beginning of 2015 and have them made with a deficit of EUR 60,000,000? Who moves with the buses and the trolleys? The Kifisia or the state or the poorness of Drapetsona and Peristeri? Why don't you care to keep urban transport up and from the two thousand buses that have road transport, currently only eight hundred buses? And why do you put - but you're so sloppy? - general manager of human resources in road transport as a building contractor to run the six and a half thousand people? He's a building contractor, but a friend of your competent minister. Of course we also had Mr Tsipras' panic yesterday, because life itself is punishing. Tsipras obviously did not stand dialogue with the Cretan farmers yesterday, because he should answer them, because farmers' taxation from 13% is 22% and will reach 45%. They should be answered, because for the first time the Common Agricultural Policy aid is taxed. They would have to be answered, because they triple the insurance contributions and reach 27% of the agricultural income. They should have answered them because the OGA has been abolished, which was a conquest of farmers. And they should be answered, because VAT on agricultural supplies from 13% has reached 24%. Because there are no answers, it is preferable for cameras to come out, outside farmers, from a man who has made a political career on agricultural carts in Thessaic Campos, calling for cameras and farmers to be underneath and cheering him up. And now come to the main body of the bill. I admit I don't understand sometimes. Mr. Secretary of State, you represent the government but it doesn't matter. Land uses. Yesterday I analysed why a tragic development crime is currently taking place in the country. A country that wants investment and does not yet have a land usage system, because some obsessed people canceled the 2014 system of land usages and have not yet brought anyone and see when they will bring it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like two or three minutes, Madam President, to finish. The Deputy Minister told us something that I fear has not understood the issue of land use. "We will build a system of land use and until then, after we have built it, we will also build the geographical information system, which is ready to digit land uses, so that people do not have to go to the different services and search hard copy maps. Please inform the Deputy Minister that today there is no need for any further legislative initiative. Today, if he gives a simple mandate to the contractors, who are in progress in the studies of the Land register with a cost of EUR 10,000 or EUR 15 000 per county, they will hand over this system ready. But he wants political will and someone to be above the head of scholars and services, to understand what commands he gives and demand that commands be implemented. Be careful, colleagues and colleagues, the land-use codes must be consistent with the Ministry of Development's code which finances investment projects. Why all the game and to avoid complication and corruption, what is it? Be very clear about the landscape in which investments are being approved and which are not and which are legal. So, what we had done this, the correlation between the land use codes of the Ministry of the Environment and the investment codes of the Ministry of Development, bring it back again. It's ready. Do it. And at last do something, something that you also found ready for the e-building. For six months pilots were operating until January 2015 the system, the platform, with which any engineer from his office could submit the building permit to the town building, the town planner answering him electronically and no one needs to go to town. While a simple joint ministerial decision is needed - the specifications are ready, we handed them over to you - to be implemented, it does not come into effect. I do not understand why we do not apply something that is ready, it brings transparency, it cuts the entire transaction under the table. I repeat. It's ready. Put it in action. We're not asking you to do anything more, just sign something that's ready. I will make another comment. It is a political approach. Listen to it. Minimum countries in Europe have a general spatial planning plan. The few who have, they have a strategic spatial planning plan in general with directions. Germany and the Netherlands, which have such a plan, allow it to be flexible enough so that the administration, the government and the government can move within a strategic framework of sustainability support - support for the cyclical economy, activation of all standards - which is broad. Watch out. You will now find this if you do not change the corresponding article. You will be going through a regulation whereby anyone who wants to appeal to the Council of State and cancel any major work will rely on your law article, which says that the country's General Spatial Plan gives direction to the underlying levels and you will suffer damage that you do not imagine. So the proposal is - you are a government, you will handle it for you - to leave a broad spatial planning framework with strategic directions. Minister, because you are dealing with energy, I will tell you with one example. The East Med pipeline, which will carry natural gas from the deposits of Cyprus and Israel through Cyprus and Crete to Greece, which I have supported, supports him and supports him. Do you know that the East Med pipeline, if you pass this law on spatial planning, will you not be able to implement it, because it will forbid you from the spatial framework, which will reasonably have not provided for each East Med pipeline?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u310	Finish, Mr. Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u311	I will end in a minute, Madam President. We have asked, ladies and gentlemen, for the National Spatial Planning Council to involve disabled people, the RESEMA, the National Confederacy of Disabled Persons. We consider it fair and it will be a good message for people with disabilities to participate in the general spatial planning of the country, as will the STEMs. Also as regards spatial planning tourism, for typical reasons the Council of State in 2015 canceled its spatial tourism. The country today has no spatial tourism. We have returned to the old 2009, which obviously has nothing to do with the needs of 2016 and 2017. Minister, the previous ministers from you - not to give you responsibility for this - have not even commissioned a scholar to update the tourist planning plan. Instruct a scholar to update it to you, to obtain a modern regional tourism framework in a few months' time. He's going to the Council of State anyway. But let's get this started. Make the trigger. Next item. We all know that, in order to produce wealth and jobs in the country, we need to make use of mineral wealth. I'm not talking about oil and natural gas. I am talking about the EUR 50 billion hidden value of geological mineral resources - industrial minerals and other minerals - which Greece has. These are well known both by your services and the IGM and by geological schools and by melting schools. To move this story forward, we had started this. There must be a special landfill site, so that we can know, for example, where a town planner or a landfill is planned, that underneath there is something - nature has placed something - that cannot be moved. So if there is mineral wealth that can bring public revenue and jobs to a place, the town and countryowner must know that. But for him to know, one should build his special land-based tourism. We have already commissioned - your services know that, they had handed it over to me - a full account of the public spaces of mineral wealth in the country. It's over a hundred twenty of those spaces. And there's the rest. Why don't you ask with a quick process what I had run and canceled? In other words, we must draw up a landfill of mineral resources so that we can make use of the country's mineral wealth and where we are constraining and building, with respect for what nature has placed. I shall conclude and thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u312	What tolerance? And 15 minutes ago you spoke!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u313	About the management bodies, the Deputy Minister told us he'd do something he'd give. In September 2014, after a consultation of eight months, all management bodies with the Ministry of the Environment and non-governmental organisations reached a 50-page unanimous conclusion on how the protection areas should be managed. I have tabled it, Minister, in the Committee on the Environment of this House and the chairman of the committee has never accepted, despite my request and the representative of the river, to discuss it. Today the country has a ready proposal on how environmentally sensitive areas should be run and financed. Bring it in consultation! Talk about it so we can all agree. There's a road. Get up and let those who rule us out right now. Because retro punctures don't pass! We, as Democratic Reconciliation, say once again that only national understanding can solve the problems of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u314	Why do you all think that you have important things to say? I don't understand that. It's awesome! Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u315	Was that a comment for me, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u316	Yeah. You think you have so much and important to say that you need to speak for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u317	Let's see what the Minister's gonna say, 'cause we're tired of the rest of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u318	What right do you consider MPs to be? You're presided over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u319	I'm not judging you. You've spoken 17-and-a-half minutes! I should have interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u320	You have other criteria, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u321	What can we do? We also have rules in this Parliament. You should know!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u322	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u323	Mr. Xydakis, I'm sorry, but the Minister is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u324	I would like to make three clarifications in order to make it clear what we are discussing, following the criticism that has been made. I suppose you are not referring to the uses of land, which is an institutional process in this easy conversion of fifteen thousand for the Stock Exchange, but to the coverage factors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u325	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u326	For the special spatial planning of mineral wealth, the specifications come out and the process begins on how the study will be done. For the Special Spatial Plan on Tourism, of course, this 2009 applies, there is no law gap. The financing of the new Spatial Spatial Plan for Tourism from the NRP has also been guaranteed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u327	Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Madam President. From Mr Maniotis' speech, I have two - three proposals and interventions, which result from his ministerial experience, and that is indeed a constructive one. But on both points which he added and which were constructive on an empirical ground, both in the field of mineral wealth and in the urban tourism sector, the Minister immediately says that we are moving forward and that there is no problem. However, the 2014 law on spatial planning was yours. I have one comment to make. You said it was all the same. We agreed at the first moment - and the special rapporteur and the Minister - that 'yes, we have taken a law and corrected it, we have improved it and extended it'. I'd say we added him a philosophy. Of all the basic concepts in both 1 and 3 of the old 2014 law, there is not a single reference to the basic concept of modern democracy and modern economies, which is sustainable development. There is no basic meaning, that we are introducing environmental protection, extending and interpreting and specialising Article 24 of the Constitution, constitutional protection, constitutional welfare. Is there a spatial planning philosophy inspired only by the protection of investment? We must protect investment and ensure an environment, but also sustainable development must protect and ensure that we create a framework and ensure the protection of the environment. I think this is the most important of this law, which alone if the new law on spatial planning had not done any technical arrangements, would have been worth voting on it. It shows a care and concern for the essence of development, which is to safeguard natural resources and the anthropogenic environment. Potami, in its paradox, while yesterday he said that he would vote for the law, today he rejects it - I do not know what will happen later - because many amendments have been accumulated and the process has been broken. I'm so sorry. I, too, am not an experienced parliamentarian, but from what I learn from the most experienced, at the end of the year these amendments always accumulate, there are always some loose ends and some economic solutions are given. Here the experienced colleagues of both the New Democracy and the Democratic Association break their clothes and perform theatrical performances, and I think that the climate of Christmas Eve and the bill that we are discussing is to make compositions, find out where we can agree and make the necessary critical speeches and improvements. Instead, we have an anguish to draw political impressions on the ground that does not give many handles, and the anguish to draw goodwill even from a roll-call vote. What is the political advantage of this roll-call vote on VAT? Don't all parties agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u329	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u330	Leave that, Mr. Kegeroglu. These on YouTube, not in the House Hall. Let go. And Mr. Maniatis has come to tell us he's fighting for the banks. Good. A few years ago the National share had 48 euros and on your own government reached 20 minutes. Who was fighting for then? What about the phenomena of bank robbery, the scandals? Who's responsible for Pssmaid? The SYRIZA government? Who is responsible for Vegeopulus? For Laurentiadis? For Philippidis? When were these born? There has been great suffering both in the national economy and in the country and in the civil service and not always in the hands of the civilian staff. You have now reached the point of plundering, accusing populism. That's what's happened, that paradox, a luop. You're in a lube. In the end, I would like to answer both the New Democracy and many colleagues. The Minister showed it in his way and in his actions, because it was even found by the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative that it is not customary for him to reject ministerial amendments. Well, it can be done. We are actually putting the legislative work on the table, and Members are being loaded with the responsibility of legislating without full knowledge, full debate and full documentation. There is already an attempt - and I would like to inform my fellow Members and the House - from the General Secretariat of the Government since the new year to become a careful and diligent work table, to help the legislative body to the extent that this can be done and to the extent that the forces of the General Secretariat of the Government allow. But we have the promise and commitment to assist in this matter. No one likes to legislate under pressure without argument and without debate. However, I do not think that it was always pink and the present government and the present parliamentary composition came and made it worse. I think that in many respects and many of my fellow Members and within the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, there is constant sensitivity and respect for the parliamentary procedure and the entire democratic process that we have in place. I would like to say, for my part, that I will try in every way to improve parliamentary practice, to respect the people who have voted for us and the Chamber that is hosting us both the space and the city, and above all, when there are opportunities, to be able to discuss and reach a creative composition. For the national audience that is watching us, let us avoid the show and the performances and send a message to the world that is watching us for hope, courage, smile in these days that are coming. Happy holidays to you colleagues too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u331	Thank you for your brief speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u332	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u333	Wait until the cycle is completed first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u334	Wait a minute, Madam President. Let me just remind my colleague Mr Xydakis that the Greek banks in January 2015 on the Stock Exchange were worth 28,000,000 euros and SYRIZA became valued under 1,000,000,000 euros. Going back to the past twenty years... Anyone who wants to can turn around. Let's see now how we got from 28,000,000 to 1,000,000,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u335	Mr Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue my position on the amendments from where I stopped this morning. You see the number of amendments is great. I am very sorry, too, for the way the government legislates. It's something we have to get used to at some point, but no one's ever used to it. Democrat procedures do not allow this to happen in the same way as the Rules of Procedure of the House. As regards Amendment 859 by Mr Stathakis, our position is no. It concerns the amendment of provisions of Law 3054 relating to the organization of the oil market. The truth is that it is an initiative to allow private capital companies to act in the field of the disposal of biofuels. It could be termed groundbreaking. It was also important that this amendment enables the trade in petroleum products other than arable land to be carried out. and of ebbs. and in p.m. We did not, however, hear the arguments which led you to the need to clarify the restrictions on E-type permits, but also the elements on which you were based for the establishment of a new E-type licence for the rest of the Aegean. At the same time, we do not believe that things have been discussed as they need to be discussed and dealt with in the House. There, basically, we say no to this amendment, because they need more consideration within Parliament. As far as Amendment 860 is concerned, the provisions on the one-off aid to low-pensions are supplemented. Fortunately, even late, the government manages to send out where and where the message is that it is not completely out of reality. It seems that what the Prime Minister has said, as the government has done, does not give a single gift without problems, even if he is the Prime Minister himself. This amendment is proof that Mr Tsipras and the government are better aware of the fact that there are 'blue' waiting for 'blue', a series of 'blue' institutions that care about the people, collectors, tax collectors, banks and municipalities, to suck his medal, to grab it at nothing. The government knows that well. And we are still waiting for her to tell us why she has not been able to implement her commitment to the immediate extension of the irresponsible and professional accounts. You cannot, gentlemen of the government, invoke ignorance. You know what awaits Greek citizens. You are proving this with this amendment which you are bringing here today and where the Central Association is voting on. With regard to Amendment No 862 by Mrs Kouduras, the Minister did well and withdrew her. The responsibility of the Minister of Tourism, as its overall responsibility would be, for what it described in the amendment as a unique type of agreement and did so, referring to the co-productions to which the EOT will participate, presenting the argument that they are not provided by a natural or legal person of some kind of service and are therefore out of competitive procedures. With regard to Amendment No 871, which extends for another two years to the specific programme for retraining, training and acquisition of professional experience for the former employees of the company 'THRAKI S.A.', we are positive. We'll support her. Sixty-one worker in the "THRAKI" care had to wait until 21 December to find out if a very important project would be extended, as well as how the Ministry of Labour is facing the titanic effort of our acronyms to bring the land of Evros to life. So in order to send out a message of solidarity to the people of Evros, we will support this amendment, noting that what has been done so far by the government for Evros is unfortunately little. That's not enough. In Amendment No 872 by Mrs Konordos, the provisions of Law 3028 on the protection of antiquities and of cultural heritage are supplemented and amended in general. You are asking us to authorize the Minister of Culture to make very important decisions on the proper management of our archaeological sites. Only with Mrs Conordou's assurance that she will be the same to adopt this decision, we could gladly vote in favour of this authorisation, as her own contribution to culture guarantees that the result will in every way protect our monuments and culture. How, of course, the Ministers' instructions will be implemented and how the responsible departments of antiquities will implement them will be for us a different chapter in the exercise of parliamentary control at all times. We are voting 'yes' on this amendment. In Amendment No 873 on the arrangements for operating aid contracts for RES and SITUs and for licences for the production of stations, we are voting on 'yes'. In the possibility of paying rent or property compensation where the central and regional services of the Ministry of Culture and Sport are housed, we say 'yes'. We shall vote 'yes' in the amendment with a general number 875 on regional rent costs. You will allow me to make the point that we cannot accept that, at the end of the day, you cannot stop your side from resorting to temporary and sloppy solutions to serious issues which, in essence, require a fundamental review. On the one hand, you welcome the possibility for regional authorities to be able to testify to the use of buildings from the region and, on the other, you are exhausted to assure us that a permanent framework is not created, but that it is a temporary solution to correct some distortions. As a result, we are all judging your results in the management of the critical problems in the region of the country. We expect to see the competitive processes to be started and completed transparently and smoothly, in line with what is foreseen in d.d.242/1996. In the case of Amendment No 876, we shall be saying'represents'. In Amendment No 877, which deals with IPTO, we shall vote 'no'. You have too many explanations to give. The government's policy on energy concerns us, as not only does it produce results, but it creates permanently new problems and new obstacles to those who have chosen to act in this very important area. In any case, I think the way in which the price of IPTO shares is determined is a very important issue, so that it can come to plenary. According to the proposed amendment, therefore, the acquisition price per share of IPTO will be determined following a valuation of 25% of the share capital of IPTO S.A. as an autonomous set by an independent valuer. We have told you that we will not support this amendment. We will not support Amendment No 878 on how to deal with the cleaning requirements of buildings in the public sector by recruiting staff. We'll explain that. Another amendment on the cleanliness of public buildings. Another chapter on red gloves. It will be large in size, the book that will try to describe SYRIZA's political action and government applications once and for all on the issue of the cleanliness of public buildings. This issue offers strong arguments to those who say that you are not managing things but at the moment. In Amendment No 879, which concerns the Ministry of Health, our position is'residents'. In the context of this amendment, there is an issue created by the reimbursement of money for the Papageorgiou Hospital. Papageorgiou Hospital, you know, has fulfilled its obligations to pharmaceutical companies. Pharmaceutical companies for their part are not informed about the Papageorgiou Hospital and we do not know how to return the money. How will the 8m euros, which have already been paid by Papageorgiou Hospital, be reimbursed? Who's going to determine this? Why hadn't the hospital been informed in writing so long that he had to join? Have pharmaceutical companies been informed about Papageorgiou Hospital? In any case, the way of legislating is not what it should be. Let's hope the new year changes things for the sake of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u337	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u338	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u339	Minister, how long will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u340	I'm gonna need five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u341	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u342	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to return to the bill itself and to clarify a few things on the basis of the debate now under way. I think it is a common place, that this bill gives a new start, gives a new start, to solve problems that have been accumulated for many decades. This bill, coupled with the completion of other basic data such as the Land register, forest maps, delimitation of the beaches, can jointly be a goal, a pursuit that must be a common place for all of us, finally the country to acquire a complete spatial planning plan and full rules for the entire Greek territory. I would remind you that the philosophy of the bill determines the three levels. The national, which forms the framework and the rules under which the projects are drawn up. The regional, which has coordination and other responsibilities throughout the region and the exclusive planning field, which has a strong foundation with local spatial planning plans called on the municipalities of the country to complete within, if possible, at the earliest possible time and which will form the solid basis of the planning for the coming years. I repeat that this philosophy and this way of planning goes through the whole bill. Its focus is sustainable development and the need to take care of many conflicting functions in the area that have not been regulated and we are now being called upon to regulate them. Let me say two more comments on specific spatial planning. I would remind you of the specific spatial planning for tourism. Cancellation from the S.E.L.D. A specific spatial planning process has had too many problems, also concerns the substance. So there is a question of redesigning the special spatial planning for tourism. The specific landfills as well as mines and others that are to be done should in turn comply with certain specifications and rules, in which the future process is called upon to determine the essential level of spatial planning. There has been a lot of discussion on the specific spatial areas, and I would like to make it clear once again here. There is a lot of discussion about the relationship between specific spatial and investment. That is why I want us to be very clear about what we are talking about. We put the mechanism of pre-approval as a process of creating security for investors. But let me also make a more general comment. The large volume of investment, more than 90% of investment in the country today in 2016, is made under the general rules. Investments made this year in the Greek economy are estimated at around 25 billion, 9.5 billion, and 16-17 billion private investments. Specially peasants have asked for six investments. There is one measure and we must all feel that the specific spatial areas concern a very small proportion of investment, which, for various reasons, legitimately calls for a derogation from the general rules in force. 95% of investment is carried out by general rules either on general urban rules or on specific spatial planning as they exist and operate. There is therefore an excessive debate on this dimension, and in quantitative terms we must all have a feeling that they have a small specific weight. They relate to a very limited number of investments and a disproportionately large debate takes place, assuming that the two phenomena are identical or almost identical or that the investments are made only with specific spatial ones. The example of tourism is very characteristic, because in 2016 we have a record of tourist investment in Athens, which is very important. The number of large tourist investments and, of course, far more small and medium-sized ones has increased. 2016 is a year of peak investment in major hotels in Athens. There are major investment initiatives. There's no one of them in a special peasant. They are all done in their entirety with the applicable rules. I am saying this precisely so that we can have a sense of measure, because there has been a lot of discussion. Special villages are ultimately provided for in the law by the simplest procedure that could exist. It is analogous to the process of strategic investment, where there is a pre-approval process. The advantages are therefore very strong and will also facilitate these specific categories of investments that we need. However, the substance of the bill is, and remains, the great work that we have before us to do for a law and a philosophy that sets out the terms, procedures, conditions and the way in which we will move in the coming years, so that we can finally have a complete system of spatial planning. It is what we have to do on the pact over the next few years. We have set a limit on 2020. We hope that these hopes will come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being guided in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and three attendants of their teachers from the 8th Elementary School of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy 'Spatial Planning - Sustainable Development and other provisions' is closed. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u346	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u348	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u350	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u351	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u352	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Sustainable Development and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u359	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u361	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u363	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u364	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u365	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u368	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u370	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u372	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u375	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u377	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u378	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u379	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u381	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u382	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u383	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u386	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u388	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u390	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u391	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u392	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u395	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u397	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u402	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u404	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u406	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u410	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u411	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u413	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u415	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u418	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u419	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u420	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u422	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u424	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u426	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u427	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u428	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u431	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u432	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u433	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 10 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u437	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u438	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u440	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u442	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u446	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u447	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u449	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u451	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u454	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u455	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u456	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u458	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u460	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u462	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u463	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u464	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u465	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u467	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u469	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u471	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u472	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u473	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u474	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u476	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u478	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 15 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u480	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u481	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u485	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u486	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u487	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 16 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u492	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u494	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u495	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u496	Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 830 and a special number 74 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u503	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u505	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 830 and a special 74 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree to the amendment by a general number of 831 and a special number of 75?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u507	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u512	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u514	Therefore, the amendment under general number 831 and a special 75 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 838 and a special number 79 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u516	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u517	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u521	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u523	The amendment under general number 838 and a special 79 were therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 839 and a special 80 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u527	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u530	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u532	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 839 and a specialist 80 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 852 and a special number 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u537	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u539	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u541	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 852 and a special 81 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 858 and a special number 86 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u543	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u544	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u545	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u548	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u549	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u550	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 858 and a special 86 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 859 and a specialist of 87 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u553	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u554	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u557	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u559	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 859 and a special 87 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 860 and a special number of 88?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u561	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u566	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u568	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 860 and a special 88 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 871 and a special 99 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u575	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u577	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 871 and a special 99 was accepted as it has unanimously been adopted and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 872 and a special 100, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u579	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u584	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u585	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u586	The amendment under general number 872 and a special 100 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 873 and a special number 101, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u589	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u591	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u593	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u594	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u595	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 873 and a special 101 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 874 and a specific 102 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u597	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u598	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u602	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u603	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u604	The amendment, by a general number 874 and a special 102, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number of 875 and a special number of 103?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u606	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u607	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u611	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u613	The amendment, by a general number 875 and a special 103, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 876 and a specific 104 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u615	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u616	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u620	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u621	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u622	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 876 and a special 104 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 877 and a specific 105 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u624	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u625	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u627	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u629	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u630	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u631	Therefore, the amendment under general number 877 and a special 105 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 878 and a specialist 106 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u633	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u638	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u640	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 878 and a specialist 106 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 879 and a special 107, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u642	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u645	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u647	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u648	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u649	The amendment of a general number 879 and a special 107 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 881 and an expert of 109 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u651	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u652	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u656	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u658	The amendment, by a general number 881 and a special 109, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 816 and a special number 72 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u660	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u661	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u662	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u663	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u665	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u666	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u667	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 816 and a special 72 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 825 and a special number 73 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u670	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u671	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u672	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u674	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u675	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u676	So the amendment under general number 825 and a special 73 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 832 and a special 76, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u678	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u679	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u681	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u682	Yes
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u683	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u684	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u685	Therefore, the amendment under general number 832 and a special 76 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 834 and a special number 77 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u687	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u689	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u690	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u692	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u693	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u694	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 834 and a special 77 was accepted as it stands, by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 856 and a special number 84 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u696	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u697	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u698	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u701	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u703	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 856, and a specialist of 84, was accepted as it is, by a majority, and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 857 and a special number 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u705	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u710	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u711	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u712	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 857 and a specialist of 85 were accepted as it is, by a majority, part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 863 and a special number 91 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u715	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u719	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u721	The amendment under number 863, and a special 91, has therefore been accepted as it stands, by majority vote, and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 864 and a special number 92 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u723	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u724	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u726	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u728	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u729	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u730	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 864, and a specialist 92, was accepted as it is, by a majority, and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 865 and a special number 93 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u732	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u734	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u737	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u738	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u739	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 865 and a specialist 93 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 866 and a special item 94 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u741	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u742	Not and we explain why: we are not saying not in control, but in the mode of staffing, which is to be done by a ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u743	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u746	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u747	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u748	The amendment under a general number 866 and a special 94 were therefore accepted as it is, by a majority, part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 867 and a special 95 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u750	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u751	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u752	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u753	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u755	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u756	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u757	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 867 and a special 95 was accepted as it is, by a majority, part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 868 and a special 96, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u759	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u760	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u761	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u762	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u764	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u765	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u766	The amendment, by a general number 868 and a special 96, was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 870 and a special 98 in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u767	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u768	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u769	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u771	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u773	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u775	The amendment, by a general number 870 and a special 98, was therefore accepted as it stands, by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 880 and a specialist of 108 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u777	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u778	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u780	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u782	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u783	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u784	The amendment, by a general number 880 and a specialist 108, has therefore been accepted as it stands, by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general figure of 882 and a special figure of 110 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u785	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u786	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u787	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u788	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u789	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u791	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u792	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u793	The amendment, by a general number 882, and a special 110, has therefore been accepted as it stands, by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 883 and a special number 111 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u794	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u795	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u796	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u798	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u800	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u802	The amendment, by a general number 883 and a specialist 111, has therefore been accepted as it stands, by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 884 and a specialist 112 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u803	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u809	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u811	The amendment, by a general number 884 and a specialist 112, has therefore been accepted as it stands, by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 885 and a specialist of 113 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u818	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u819	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u820	The amendment, by a general number 885 and a special 113, has therefore been accepted as it stands, by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 886 and a specialist of 114 in its own right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u823	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u827	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u829	The amendment, by a general number 886 and a special 114, has therefore been accepted as it stands, by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number of 889 and a specialist of 117 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u830	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u834	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u836	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u838	The amendment, by a general number 889 and a special 117, has therefore been accepted as it stands, by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u839	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u840	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u841	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u842	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u843	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u844	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u845	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u846	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u847	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Spatial planning - sustainable development and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on the articles. We shall now proceed to the vote on the entire bill. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u849	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u850	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u851	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u852	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u854	The river is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u855	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u856	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Sustainable development and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u857	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u858	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. [[Changing p.]] [[To enter page 319 a]] [[The Commission's proposal is ……]] At this point we interrupt our meeting for the 19.00, when the roll-call vote will take place on number 837/71 Amendment to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Governmental Code, Administrative Justice, Fees - Paradoxicals, Voluntary disclosure of taxable material in the past years, Electronic transactions, Amendments to Law 4270/2014 and other provisions".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u859	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on number 837/71 Amendment to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Governmental Code, Administrative Justice, Fees - Paradoxically, Firmly Disclosure of taxable material of the past years, Electronic Transactions, Amendments to Law 4270/2014 and other provisions". Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for the roll-call vote of Members of the Democratic Incorporation PASOK - DIMAR, Member Ahmet Ilhan from Potaki and Independent Members on Amendment No 837/71, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u860	I will read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to see if the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mrs. Genuine Lights. Here. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Hara. Here. Mr. Koutsoukos John. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Maniotis John. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Costas. Here you go. Mr. Jelephus Michael. Here you go. Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Here. Mr. Karras Georgios - Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Ilhan Ahmet. Here you go. Mr. Gregorakos Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Panagulis Stathis. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u861	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on number 837/71 Amendment to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Governmental Code, Administrative Justice, Fees - Paradoxically, Firmly Disclosure of Taxable Stock for Years, Electronic Transactions, Amendments to Law 4270/2014 and other provisions". I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to accept this amendment. The non-acceptance of the amendment is said to be 'OH.' The voters say 'PARON'. They are called on the list: Mrs Anastasia Gara by SYRIZA and Mr Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy. Let me make an announcement before the vote begins: Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and four educational sessions from the 1st General High School Argos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u862	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and take the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] In the meantime, I'll make two announcements: Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, 50 students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st General High School Argos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that colleagues Mr Mustafa Mustafa and Mr Theodoros Fortsakis are applying for a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u863	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. [[The protocol to the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there have been letters from colleagues, Mr Panos Kammenos, Mr Konstantinos Zouraridis, Mr Aristides H. Fokas, Mr. Katerinas Markos Anastasios Megalamustakas, Mr. Andreas Michalidis, Mr. Socrates Vardakis, Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenides, Mr. Aristides - Nikolaos - Dimitrios Baltas, Mr. Emmanouil Thrazaniotis, Mr. Antonis Balomenakis, Mr. Karamanlis, Helena Raptis, who know us that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote "NEI". These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u864	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 259 Members voted. In favour of Amendment No 837 and a special number 71, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 259 Members. No Member voted against the amendment under a general number 837 and a special number 71. No Member of Parliament has voted 'PARON'. Therefore, the amendment under general number 837 and special 71 was accepted unanimously and is part of the draft law as the same article, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol: To enter page 346a
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u865	We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u867	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u868	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u870	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u873	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u874	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights “Bovernment Code, Administrative Justice, Fees - Paradoxically, voluntary disclosure of taxable material of the past years, Electronic transactions, Amendments of Law 4270/2014 and other provisions” was accepted in principle and on articles. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the draft law and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u875	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u876	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u877	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u879	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u881	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u882	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u883	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Government Code, Administrative Justice, Fees - Paradoxically, Firmly Disclosure of old-year taxable material, Electronic transactions, Amendments to Law 4270/2014 and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u884	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u885	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-21-S1-commons.u886	The vote will take place at 7.51 p.m. and the vote will take place at 7 p.m.
