ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 22 April 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister of Health about the needs of the Artificial Leaf Unit of the General Hospital of Halkidiki. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 808/19-4-2016 by MP Aitolakarannia of New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Karagunis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the increase in the number of importers in Pan-Hellenic Examinations for the academic year 2016-2017 from earthquake areas of the Prefecture of Itonokarnania. 3. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the energy upgrade of the Municipal Pool of Nafplio. 4. The Question No 804/19-4-2016 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problems of the operation of the Epirus TEI from the lack of teaching staff and equipment. 5. The Question No 801/19-4-2016 by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the removal of the titles from 123 Greek families in the village of Dramadas of Himaras. 6. The question under number 797/18-4-2016 by MP B' Athens of the Union of Centres Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the risk of losing funding from the European Union financial institutions for the help of refugees. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 809/19-4-2016 of the New Democracy MP Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the treatment of the immediate serious issues of the Rethymnon Police Directorate and the construction of a new Police Palace. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the exclusion of the Municipalities, under 10,000 people from the "Centres of Community" programme. 3. The Question by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Konstantinos Steerios to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on redundancies of workers in the company "Industrial Facilities Metal constructions S.A. (BEMKE S.A.) which operates in Volos Second Industrial Area. 4. The Question No 802/19-4-2016 by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance, concerning “the loss of the regulation of 100 instalments due to the failure to inform the debtors of the new amount of the instalment after the increase in interest rate as well as the one-sidedness of the banks, a reduction in the amount of the instalment paid by the debtors in the settlement bank account”. 5. The question under number 779/12-2016 of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the Regional Road of Thessaloniki. 6. The question by No 785/12-4-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Sakis Bardalis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, about the re-entry of extracted land by PPC S.A. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Environment and Energy, about the biomass power plants in the Municipality of Gortyna, Heraklion Crete. 8. The Question No 708/28-32016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health on the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia. 9. The Question No 663/15-32016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Finance concerning the participation of Greek entrepreneurs in the increase of the capital of Greek Television Channel and the delay of loans granted to Pigasos SA. 10. Under number 771/11-4-2016, a topical question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the "energy future" of the Florina Prefecture. 11. The Question No 775/11-4-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on ‘Public Money Laundering, due to the arbitration of public projects co-financed by Community funds’. 12. The current question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy regarding the establishment of the Academy of a Port Body. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of its Rules of Procedure). (Parliament adopted 1. Question No 3694/3-3-2016 by Mr Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, on pharmacy hours. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question and application under number 37844/267/8-32016 by MP B' Athens, George Amyras, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the government's delay in the promotion of actions and the development of broadband by depriving 1.5% of GDP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 786,134-2016 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the multiple cost for the economy from the exclusion of the railway line of Idomeni. Mr Hatzidakis' question will be answered by the State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Marina Chrysovelonis. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, for the thirty-fifth day the country's rail network is closed, our link through the former Yugoslavia to the rest of Europe. And this is the second time that this is happening in 2016, because it had been shut down two months ago for about twenty-five days. Twenty-five days had been closed then, thirty-five now. A two-month period, the country's basic access to the rest of Europe is closed. I'm not just standing at the image level. I'm actually standing there. And the substance is about the damage suffered by many Greek companies, it is about the damage suffered by TRAINOSE, particularly in the face of privatisation, and it is about the contracts signed by TRAINOSE, with a number of colossians, such as - not to say - that I speak theoretically - the 'HEWLETT PACKARD' and the 'SONY', which I wonder at the end how they will be placed against these developments. The fact is of major importance. Here are two questions: First, has the government following this issue, without doing anything specific to give a definitive solution, assessed the damage suffered by TRAINOSE, has it assessed the damage suffered by Greek businesses or not and simply sees the trains stopped and not pass? Is that what the government does? Secondly and more importantly, perhaps: This government, this government, had managed to open the railway line at the time when it was first closed. But it's closed again. Again, this government a few days ago managed to reopen the railway line, which suggests that we are not asking you to do anything impossible when we tell you to keep the railway line open. Your own action proves that the line can be opened. For God's sake, Minister, can't you keep the railway line open? After you managed to do it for a few days and a few hours last time. Is it now so difficult that you started to complete it, so that the self-evident thing can be done and there can be unobstructed access by rail to the rest of Europe? In these two very specific questions I would finally like to receive a reply from the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis. Mrs Chryssovelloni has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Maybe I'll run out of my position on prototype. We'll see it along the way. First of all, Mr Papoutsis, I would like to thank you for the question you have asked me, because it is a very good opportunity to place us on the authority of our Ministry, of course, because I very much cannot answer both your questions. And you'll understand why. First of all, I would like to say that the situation in Idomeni and, more generally, the refugee - immigration issue is a major issue for the SYRIZA Government - Independent Greeks - I would say to you - a national issue. The same is, of course, for the co-legislative ministers. This issue at the moment the government is dealing with sobriety, it is being treated wisely, with stamina, with caution, with efficiency, which I would say - and I would say internationally. As the sole ministers responsible on this point have said, the situation in Idomeni is expected to be extremely relieved until Easter, but always, with respect for the human factor, human dignity, which, for us, is a very high priority. With regard to the issues you raise with your question, I will start with the first, which concerns TRAINOSE, which, as you know, is very well supervised by the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. So you ask what is the damage that TRAINOSE has suffered since the exclusion of the TEN. So the evidence that I will give you and which the company itself has given us - and it is certainly, at any time, at your disposal - proves that, for the period from 19 March to 19 April of this year and this month, there is a loss of around EUR 1 million and for the period from 19 November to 11 December of the previous year, the estimated loss amounts to approximately two million. As you will see, there is a difference - that is, less damage costs - because the new administration of TRAINOSE, which has always undertaken, in cooperation with our Ministry, but also with the co-legislative ministries, has quickly reacted and adapted, as far as possible, to the situation that exists in Idomen. The question is whether the resulting damage can be reversed. The answer, therefore, is that, first of all, there is a design to be covered by an increase in the company's transport work. The necessary steps have been taken on this. There is also our demand - which always remains - for payment of additional funds from the European Union. I would also like to point out to you that in order to prevent the exact occupation of the railway line in the area of Idomeni, the OSE, which is also a supervised body of our Ministry, in collaboration with and with the suggestion of the Police Directorate of the area, built a fence on either side of the line from the Idion railway station to the border in February 2016. The purpose of the construction of this very large fence was to prevent the takeover of the lines and ensure the smooth movement of the trains. You will probably have been informed - without responsibility of our own government - that this fence has been vandalized on some points and yet there has been a direct restoration on the part of the OSE. The refugee issue, Mr Papoutsis, and its impact on rail transport is an issue whose solution is a European solution. I mean, that this problem is a European problem and that is exactly what the markets see. There is therefore a strong effort on the part of TRAINOSE to limit the problem of freight transport by choosing, at this stage, the alternative railway route through Bulgaria. However, I would like to point out the following, in reply to your relevant question: The cost at the moment for customers amounts to EUR 1 000 to EUR 1,300 per train and one to two days later. These elements I am quoting you are not arbitrary. It is evidence that the company itself has given us, and it is certainly at your disposal. So, in view of this, I really wonder where you have collected information that damage and costs amount to five thousand to ten thousand euros per train. And of course, you refer to your question about TRAINOSE's compensation to customers. I can assure you, therefore, that so far as we speak, no requests have been made and there is no indication at present that they will be made. This, of course, will take place immediately - I said it at the beginning of my position and I say it again - is the restoration of the rail network as soon as possible. Mr President, I may need very little time in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u7	Of course, Minister. Thank you. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, the Minister told us that the government is dealing with the issue wisely and with endurance. That is why this admirable result has been closed for a total of two months. The closed railway line is for the government the definition of tolerance and wisdom. It is clear from the same logic that the railway line should be opened. Do I know? Words have lost meaning. That was the first point. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased The Minister told us that these days, on behalf of her own "TRAINOSE" the company - as if it were true - has damaged 3 million euros. But TRAINOSE is marginally profitable. And that figure is in danger of being loss-making only because the railway line is closed. Do you understand that, Minister, or not? And how's the damage going to be reversed? In a magical way, because some TRAINOSE officials gave you some information to present it here in the House, some beliefs? Because it's not about evidence. On the contrary, what is at stake in the company is that significant contracts should be cancelled. And in this way to undermine the activity of both TRAINOSE and the port of Piraeus and Thessaloniki and undermine the economic activity of the country. Be careful, Minister, you're new to the Ministry, but it's not a joke at all. The damage to TRAINOSE and the economy can be very large. And the evidence I drew in relation to the company damage you can find all over the press in all the media. They are statements of all those affected by the matter. That's where I found them. Thirdly, you say that you will be confined to the responsibilities of your ministry. I don't think the Ministry of Public Order is in another government. You are in the same government and you are due to give total answers. The most important thing you did not answer is that you opened the line yourself a few months ago. You reopened the line for two hours ago. What is it that keeps you from keeping her open? You said that the problem is a European one. So, should NATO also come to keep the railway line in Idomeni open? What should be evidently done is an integrated operational plan of the Ministry of Public Order and the Government as a whole. You started applying it and you left it in the middle and the line closed again. This is a great responsibility and diligence of the government. And I think what I'm saying is common sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u10	Your Honor, sincerely from your position, I cannot understand what you mean. What are you paying off? That the government wants to keep the Observed line closed? So, can you give an answer? Is there any chance that the government will want to keep the Yeltsin line closed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u11	I'm saying you opened it and closed it again. What was the right thing to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u12	But let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Hatzidakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u14	So, is it not the best answer that the government does everything possible in a difficult environment to manage? And isn't the fact that I told you that by Easter the situation would be extremely relieved? At the moment in your position you have questioned the government's intentions. You have questioned the work of the competent ministers and you have questioned what I said to you that the government is doing soberly, wisely, with caution - Mr Papoutsis, I am replying to you! - and with respect to the human factor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u15	What is the wisdom? Should it be closed or open? Both of you can't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Hatzidakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u17	What do you propose, Mr. Hatzidakis? Put the MATs on and get people by force? What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u18	Didn't you put the police on? Did I put it? Keep trying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u19	We keep trying. I may be news at the Ministry, Mr. Hatzidakis. I very much understand the seriousness of the problem. And I am not the only one who understands it. It is understood by all the ministers and the government and above all by the Prime Minister. Well, I told you that by Easter the situation would be relieved. I think that's what he should tell you. Now, from that point on, you told me that I am making reference to some of the elements that some of the "TRAINOSE" gave me. I was not given by some of the 'TRAINOSE'. The administration of TRAINOSE gave it to me. So I told you that the particulars are available to you, and you compared them to me in the press. Mr. Hatzidakis, I'm not coming to the House to reply with press reports. I come with particulars, assembled, costed, documented, and they are at your disposal to give them to you at any time and at any time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u20	So the three million is very little? Shall we make it ten or twenty?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u21	Nobody told you it was very little. The question, however, is whether there is planning in the administration to limit the damage. I answer you that there is a plan to limit the damage. Well, to repeat once again that normalising the situation in Eidomeni is a government priority. Let me repeat once again that I am referring to both the Minister of Public Affairs and Mr Kammenos and the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Vitsa, and to the statements made by Mr Musala, but also to the Prime Minister's own statements - the situation will normalise until Easter. You address a question to the Ministry of Transport and Networks. I gave you answers that fall within our ministry's circle of responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u22	Once again we will submit it to NATO, since it is a European matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u23	I do not like to be involved in the competences of other ministries, because that is how the order is imposed. In view of this, then, you wait. Easter is very close and you will see that the situation will be normalized, because this is a desire and a basic targeting of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the Parliament is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd High School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the two topical questions and I explain immediately. In particular, the question under number 780/12/42016 of the President of the Republic of Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the planning of the Government and the objective of the Ministry for the seat and functions of the European Network and Communications Security Agency (ENISA) and the question of the second-cycle question of Heraklion of Potamios Danelis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the decision of the European Parliament Committee on Budgets to remove the European Network and Communication Security Agency (ENISA) from Heraklion, Crete in Athens, will be discussed at the same time without affecting the rights of MPs for their speaking time on the basis of Article 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. We will give the floor to Mr Kegeroglu, then to Mr Danellis, and then the Minister will answer. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. It is important, on the other hand, to answer the question, which is not the two Members of Parliament, is a question for the whole of Crete, as to what is going to happen with ENISA, what is the government planning to do with its headquarters and, of course, the future of the organization. The route of an organization founded in 2004, based in Heraklion Crete, is known for the safety of the networks by the FORTH, the most important research institute on communication networks. There were preconditions for the development of the organization, which was covered one after the other, and in particular the site, which is ready for the permanent operation of the organization in a building of over 4,000 square meters. There are forces, including the last executive director, who have drunken or tended to shift the agency's seat both inside and outside the country, but also outside it. The European Court of Justice even complained that they were not served by air and were lost. The Greek governments, apart from the fact that they ensured the conditions, in good faith, gave the right and agreed that there was a meeting office here in Athens, which was then a branch. The purpose of some, however, is to transfer the functions of the organization as a whole here and possibly others to be transferred outside Greece. Mrs Chrysofelonis in the previous question I had tabled and discussed in the House, closing, said that the government will do everything possible to keep the seat in Greece. This obviously worried us a lot more than the publications and the information that he is in the process of getting the seat out of Heraklion and coming to Athens. The question today is, and I would like to know from the government's side, what design is there, so that not only do they not leave Heraklion, but they also come back directly to the object and cannot be far from HEI. Secondly, what it intends to do to negotiate 2017 with the regulation, with the permanent mandate that we need to take, and in any case as a country we determine the functioning of the seat, etc., as was at least the original regulation that was passed. This planning is what we want to know from the government's side.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, our management of the ENISA case, namely the European Network and Information Security Agency, is a representative picture of our new Greek situation which brought us to bankruptcy, and brought us here. And I mean that the inappropriate management of the issue from the outset, which we did not understand in 2003, on the Greek Presidency then, the seat in Greece of such a critical organisation, did not understand what that body meant to mean, made us not consistent with the three contractual obligations that we took. Unfortunately, within time these obligations have not been implemented as they should and not by accident. However, at the edge of the spear, our allegiance, the forces that wanted to move the organization outside Greece have, by working together, with high-ranking officials of the then Ministry of Transport, the equivalent of yours, on the Voridis Minister, to come to an acceptance, in a compromise with the Commission and then to decide on the transfer of the executive arm of the EISA to Athens - since, of course, it had just been said, the establishment of a meeting office in Athens - and the stay in Heraklion on the administrative arm. That, of course, has been what we have been talking about since, that was certainly unsustainable, neither economic nor organisationally and functionally. And with the crew of time, unfortunately, on 13 March it is decided unanimously in the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets that this unsustainable economic choice made in 2012 cannot continue and that is why the administrative arm is also being transferred to Athens. The demand for our own and our concern, which we have been expressing for years for all this, through the diffusion of the EESC, is not of a topical nature. It was selected and the seat of the ENISA in Heraklion came, because it was precisely the internationally recognized existence of the Research Foundation and of the University Institutions of Crete, which provided an environment of innovation and technological excellence. That would support the ENISA. Unfortunately, it is considered unsustainable today what was decided in 2012 and so we are implementing what we were all predicting, namely the departure and the administrative division. Since there was no government representative at the committee meeting, which I mentioned just before, in the European Parliament and because Mr Kurchos, the only Greek member of the committee, said that he also agrees, but also the Greek Government - he said - has no objection, I would very much like the official view of the government in relation to this loose end. And I want to say, by closing here, that the information that it costs the Greek Government, in the Greek budget of EUR 640,000 per year, has seen the rental of infrastructure needed by ENISA in Athens. For this reason, because the publicity figures state that this cost is needed not to close the ENISA office in Heraklion, I would ask you very much to clarify it. Because the infrastructure for use has been given to Heraklion, it is simply not used, since it is only the administrative part of ENISA. So the cost of operating the buildings in Athens is an unnecessary cost that burdens the Greek taxpayer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. The Minister has the floor. Know that your time is twice as much for both your protology and your denology, that is, six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u29	Yeah, I'll try to be short. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for your questions. It is a good thing once again to clarify a number of issues. I would first like to begin my position on the issues raised by Mr Dannelis in his question, which, admittedly, is quite enough. But you will allow me, Mr Members, to tell you that some of these are based on evidence which is not accurate. And I would like to explain that the minutes of the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets on a number of of what you said, Mr Papoutsis, are disputing you. And I am saying this with a great deal of stress and I really do wonder why you have been a Member of the European Parliament and therefore you can know some things better than anyone else. The stay of ENISA in Heraklion, Crete, in general, as we have pointed out in other similar content answers that I personally have given to relevant topical questions, is a matter of utmost importance to the Government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks and therefore also to our Ministry, given that our Ministry is the supervising Ministry on the issues of this organization. In this direction, therefore, we have ensured that we meet and maintain all the essential requirements - specifications of the relevant Community services and the heads of ENISA, in order to ensure that it is fully operational and fully operational. In particular, I have said this in reply to Mr Kegeroglou's question - for the European School of Heraklion, I have already pointed out from the same position that after the concession of land by the University of Crete and the studies involved and thus the availability of funds, the building of the relevant building should have been completed in September 2013, which was not carried out. And, of course, why it may not have happened, Mr Kegeroglu, you are more competent to answer this to us and I say that since then you were a member of the New Democracy - PASOK Government. So today, and following ongoing contact with the "Creative Infrastructures SA", we have been informed that the study of architectural designs has been completed and delivered and that the implementation study, which is expected to be ready in 2016, will be followed by the auctioning of the project with an implementation schedule in 2018. Meanwhile, due to problems presented in the building in which the European School is currently housed, it was decided to relocate to a building of the University of Crete. It is precisely for this purpose by the end of this year that the projects - intervention to form this building - will be auctioned so that the European School, immediately after finding the functionality of the building in question, will be transferred there as soon as possible. You have made a reference to your question on the direct air connection between Heraklion and Brussels, Mr Dannelly. I imagine that, as a Member of the House, you are very well aware that there is currently no state air carrier, and that is why we, from our side, in any case, cannot influence the airline routes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u30	I didn't ask that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u31	Yeah, about the airline. I think that in this respect there is a possibility for local operators and therefore also the region, which can be organised for this purpose. With regard to the transfer of ENISA to Athens, for which you and Mr Kegeroglou have also referred, I would like to say the following: In 2013, as you rightly said, Mr Dannelly, by the then Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr Vorides, it was "invented" - and I say it in introductory form - and finally a state of operation of the organisation's operational arm in Athens has been established. So you now come and make accusations to our government, claiming that we are sobering the removal of the organization. So the cost of this situation - and I am referring to the cost of the rental payment - amounts to EUR 300,000 per year. So you can do some acts very easily, some mathematical calculations, to see what the burden of the Greek State was from 2013 until today. Because you have made some references, I would like to tell you that the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Spirtz, is planning - is his immediate priorities - to meet with the President of the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets, Mr Hughes, on the ENISA. This results very well from the minutes of the committee meeting, which obviously, Mr Dannelly, you have not read. As you mentioned the absence of the Greek Government at the meeting of the respective committee, I would like to tell you that in any case there was a presence of the permanent delegation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u32	But the representative was not present.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u33	I'm going to go on in my dentistry. I'm not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Danielle, don't interrupt. You've got a second. You'll put your questions, you'll be placed. Are you finished, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u35	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u36	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u37	You've spent six minutes, but I think no one understood, nor did his colleague, SYRIZA. On this occasion, I would like to say that all the Members of Parliament in Crete, regardless of the prefecture and regardless of the party, are supporting all the efforts, because the forces are not only within a country, they are also outside the country, who want to overthrow the desire and the agreement that exists. Of course, I referred to the good intention - within or outside the introductory part - of governments to make things easier. However, this was exploited by those who want to take the organization from Crete. In the light of the review, in view of the need for a new mandate - the five-year mandate is now ending - in view of these discussions that have already begun, we want to know what the government's position is clearly and unequivocally. What you are telling us, that he will meet with the chairman of the committee, is very good. The cost you're referring to is for within Athens, if I understand. If it was in the building that was given to Heraklion, we wouldn't have any cost. And then we all stood up in Voridis. And Vorides, by his methods, which we hope you will not continue, brought this result. And of course they also took advantage of the good intentions of the Magriots of the meeting office. So you will not put your way within the people who want here in the country to keep the organization, etc. But you should only stand as a government on how we deal with them. Our proposal is for a full return to Heraklion and Crete and to all functions. There is no longer any more of the objections that are based on, because, as you quite rightly said, despite the problems of spatial planning, land use, it is necessary to agree on the bodies that have been delayed, at the same time, had been granted a building and there are other buildings that are granted when the needs are not met. So there has never been a problem of homelessness for the European School, under any circumstances. If you say so as a government, it goes on to say that the arguments of others are correct. But I don't think you're saying that as a government. So today, because all the conditions have been fulfilled, with that main building, the accommodation of the organization itself in Heraklion, in four and a half thousand square meters, which is ready to be delivered - completed and I mean to be delivered for use - the question of the total return to Heraklion must be raised from the outset. That is the request and we want the government to go along with all the arguments. The Government must have a link between Heraklion and Brussels. It's not the government neutral. A government that grants licences, even for coun­tries, to airlines, must tell the airline in writing, to all of them and to one of them in Greece that there is an international obligation. And this international obligation must be covered in one way or another. It is not right what you said, that there is no state air carrier, and that is why we have no competence. No, it's a country's international obligation. You're wrong the next time we meet, I want you to show us the document you sent to Aegean on this subject. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u39	Madam Minister, I am not one of those who thinks it is always to blame for what is happening to us. We are responsible for the management we have done on such a critical and delicate issue as ENISA. I am not used to talking about such issues, without any evidence confirming what I am saying. That is why I will table in the minutes the link between the European Parliament's website and the seventeen-minute debate of the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets, where exactly what I referred to just before or what I referred to in my question. Not only have I not attended, I have not read, but I have discussed with some of those who participated in the committee meeting. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There, therefore, the Greek Government did not express an opinion because the MIA spokesman did not speak. And those who spoke unanimously came to the conclusion that what had started to be implemented must be implemented, namely the complete removal of ENISA from Crete and its establishment in Athens, that is, the administrative part, because it is neither functional nor economically viable what is happening today. I said just before that, of course, all my fellow Members, like all of them in Crete, support the stay in Heraklion, ENISA. Because the next step, by means of the salamation achieved by the slide in which I referred to its transfer from Crete to Athens, in 2020, which ends the provisional mandate in force until then - here I am passing away is the only European organisation that has no permanent mandate or has no permanent seat, at the same time - will be to leave Greece. And everything shows that there will be a larger body that will refer to the Brussels-based cybercrime, which will also absorb the ENISA. So the issue is national rather than local. I will also present a communication that we adopted on 8 February 2012 almost comprehensively in the European Parliament, which is very rare, which we are talking about following the Voridis-Crouse ruling, which was the Commissioner responsible in the European Union, because we saw exactly what was going to happen today. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And because some people obviously have a responsibility for how to manage the whole issue, I, Minister, have not checked you about the problem. You then did not exist as a party, and SYRIZA had rather a distance from this matter. If I remember correctly, SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Kritsotakis, in these years a question had been asked, but SYRIZA as a party had not taken a stand, it was not the whole case in its management.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u40	He hadn't signed the joint question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u41	And he had not signed the joint question that Mr Kegeroglu says, nor in this statement by the Greek delegation to the European Parliament. That is why we want a clear position: what, then, is your Government's perception of this issue as it develops and what happens? What are you gonna do? I would like to conclude by saying that what you said, that even today, we are talking about the plot, the study and the way in which the school was built, shows the frugality, the criminal frugality on the part of Greece, which was, of course, the peak of spear, because we gave the margins for those who wanted to remove ENISA from Greece to achieve it, which will be completed, as I said just before, in 2020. I would like to ask you very much, because the school in the way it works, which took a certificate from the European Union over the past few days and because a number of families have made their life and education programme for children, especially in the xenophobic parts of the European School, give us an answer, because the withdrawal of the administration of ENISA from Heraklion means fatality and the closure of the school, as this school operates, that is, a guest. Because the School of European Education is a prerequisite for the European Agency, as well as a follow-up to the presence of the European Agency. If the administrative part leaves before 2020, then the school should be closed. And that creates great problems, and that is why parents and teachers and children must know what they are waiting for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u43	Mr Kegeroglou, I do not think the government can place itself on this issue. Perhaps the second part of my answer strengthens my position. Mr Dannelly, you know very well - I imagine you are aware of this - that the European Parliament's committee, to which we referred earlier, does not decide is not of a decisive nature. The non-participation and presence of the Minister, Mr. Spirtzi, is certainly not due to indifference, but to the fact that there has been an extraordinary problem that could not go to Brussels and that is why he has planned to have a direct and rapid meeting with the President of the Commission, Mr. Art Hughes. The presence of a European organisation, such as ENISA, can only be positive in Crete, Mr Kegeroglu, and therefore throughout Greece. After the successful outcome of the Network and Information Security Directive - I am referring to the NIS directive - there is now a clear strengthening of the Agency with operational monitoring. In my previous position, but also in my answers to a relevant question, which I answered a few days ago, in Mr Kegeroglou's question, I mentioned the availability of funds, investments, infrastructures of the European School in Heraklion. All that I've analysed, honourable Members, what do they show? Do they show that there is an intention at the moment, that there is a government target to transfer ENISA from Heraklion? Does it seem that there is the government's slightest intention to remove ENISA from Greece? I don't think so. I think it's clear what the government's targeting is. On the contrary, with a view to evaluating the 2017 government's concern, Mr Kegeroglou, to fight, claim and succeed in maintaining the permanent residence of the seat in Heraklion and therefore in our country. I think that the answer and the position of the government is clear now. And since you made a reference to the issue of 'Aegean', Mr Kegeroglu, I would like to say that I did not make any reference to 'Aegean' or to a particular airline, because you stressed the issue of 'Aegean'. In any case, I think it is not very important. I think the answer I gave you now should cover you. In closing, however, I would like to say the following: Since the issue of ENISA is of particular interest to the national interests of the country, and because it is a matter of the utmost importance which requires very delicate manipulations and on the part of the government, I would ask, after the submission of these questions, that we should not go back to this particular issue and close this matter, particularly in view of the answer I have given to you today on what is the intention and the clear and unscrupulous aim of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I object.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Kegeroglu, are we now opening a third course of intervention? Excuse me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u47	We will not open up, but, especially today, on the anniversary of 21 April, we should not say 'don't ask questions or ask parliamentary control'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u48	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u49	You could say that for the extra topics which cannot be made public, you will inform us by another route. That, to be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u50	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu. I understand the objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u51	I think you understood what I mean, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u52	Madam Minister, would you like to add something? You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u53	Mr Kegeroglu, away from me the point of view of 'do not ask questions'. You see very well that I am always here to answer the questions that fall within the Ministry's circle of competence, because I think it is the duty and duty of each ministry to answer them. But I think you understood what I meant by the last reversal of our position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u55	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Maniatou, hand immediately! I have not yet read your timely question, which is being postponed. You're old and you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u57	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u58	Let the president say what he wants to say. Adjourn the Bureau. I'm not interrupting anyone. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u59	But the Minister will not leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u60	Yes, Mrs. Chrysovelonis won't leave. Following on from what the Minister said, it considers that the ministers should be here to answer the Members' topical questions, I have to inform you that from today's list of questions, which were twenty-two in the number, only nine will be discussed. Thirteen will be postponed. This is repeated for once. We'll call it back and say it again. In the Conferences of Presidents we have set it up, and today we will say it again, but it is postponed, because, for most of the time, the ministers are not coming. There are few cases which are postponed either because they are not abroad or in consultation with the honourable Member. In particular, the third with number 788/14-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP Argolis of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the ongoing postponements of the examinations of the candidates, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for a minute. Please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, thank you. The timely question I tabled concerns many thousands of Greek citizens and also concerns the non-recovery of more than EUR 40 million by the Greek State, because of the failure to carry out the tests of candidate drivers. The whole of Greece knows. It is an issue that concerns all of Greece. I therefore put a question to Mr Spirtzi as responsible for the examinations of the candidate drivers. Yesterday afternoon, when this timely question is scheduled to be discussed, I am being informed by the Minister's office that it declares irresponsibility. And one might well say: “The Maniattan was wrong. Spirjis is not competent." But come on, where Mr Spirtz himself is denying himself and deceiving the national Parliament. Mr President, I will table the practical amendments signed by Mr Spirtz, dated 10 February 2016. It is signed by Mr. Spirtzis, as Minister of Transport, the Deputy Minister of Transport, then, Mr. Sguridis, and Mr. Tsakalotos to resolve this particular problem. I will also present Mr Spirtzi's practical response to the present Mr Kegeroglu, in which the Ministry of Transport's Directorate-General for Economic Affairs and the Directorate-General for Road Safety not only declares competence, but they say that specific legislation will be tabled. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm concise. This is where someone's mocking someone. Or Mr Spirtzis is responsible for the examinations of candidates, so he must come here and answer, give solutions to a problem of thousands of Greek citizens, or he is unauthorized and must be absent from his duties. I would ask you, Mr President, to raise this particular issue at the Conference of Presidents, because this particular day, like the downgrading of parliamentary control today, does not honour anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Maniots. Mr. Maniatis, your objection has been recorded. Of course, all this is being discussed or, if you like, submitted to the Conference of Presidents. We will now make use of Mrs Chrysovelloni's presence to give a brief answer. Just a minute, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u63	Yes, Mr President, and I will be very brief, because you mentioned the name of Mr Spirtzi. I want to inform you that Mr. Spirtzis will be absent from today until Saturday for work, of course, at the Ministry abroad. He's in Ljubljana. Therefore, if Mr. Spirtzis wanted to avoid answering and being placed, he could well claim that he is absent outside Greece. Obviously, you have not followed this and you have not understood that there is a negotiation with the institutions on this matter at the moment and there is a negotiation with the technical blocks. The solution to this problem is a solution that requires intervention...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u64	Why do you answer after you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u65	The solution will be given with the assistance of the Ministry of Finance. You have already mentioned some figures in what you have said. Because, in order to solve this, it is a question of paying money - just to make it clear - and because, after the single wage law has been implemented, there is no provision for legislation in this respect, for that is why we say that the matter at present has the main responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. However, in any case - and I am sorry you do so because yesterday you were informed by our office - we could well tell you that we cannot answer for the moment, because a negotiation is under way on this. To close, I would like to tell you this. And the Ministry of Finance and our Ministry - and everyone knows that, and those who do the examinations know it, and the examiners know it, and the world knows it - is making every effort to resolve this particular issue. Apart from us, therefore, from our Ministry, from our intentions, to avoid responses to parliamentary scrutiny, Mr Papoutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Chrysosvelloni. It won't be discussed because of the imprisonment of the honourable Member or with...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u67	February 25th, they're answering...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Maniotis, please, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u69	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u70	No, not half a second. No, Mr. Maniatis, you don't have the floor. It won't be discussed because of an impediment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u71	They're making fun of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u72	Please, very much, Mr. Maniotis, sit down. If you wish, make a proposal for a change of Rules to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u73	Is it the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u74	You can't take the floor anytime you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u75	We're asking what a coma he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u76	Excuse me very much, but I gave you the floor to submit your objection to the postponement of your question, as you developed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u77	Incompetence? Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u78	We have also exploited Mrs Chrysovelloni who was here, competent or irresponsible, anyway, as she states. From there on, we continue the process. Please. Please. The eighth Question No 759/6-4-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the problems and prospects of the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELVO) is not being discussed due to a blockade by the Member of Parliament in question. Also, the eleventh question under number 545/15-2-2016 is not discussed in the context of a topical and urgent debate on the question of the second parliamentary Athens of the People's Association-Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Health on the problems of operation in the EAW. It is not discussed, after consultation of the Minister with the MP, the first with number 3807-8-32016 question of the petitions by the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Asterios Kastoris, to the Minister of Health, concerning the professional rights of workers (survivors, physicotherapists and gymnasts) in the field of health. We proceed to the fourth with number 790/18-4-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Spread of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, Minister for Finance, concerning the seizures in the hands of credit institutions on payroll or pension bills. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Tree Alexiadis, will answer. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Law No.4336/2015 defines and defines the incompatibilities for wages and pensions, for debts to credit institutions and also for tax. In fact, the amount of EUR 1,000 has been set. But the Circular of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue has confused things a little. You know very well that the circular is not law and that with the circular sometimes they go to alter the spirit, the ratio, the law a lot of Services. What did that circular say? He said that by means of this provision - the one mentioned by L.4336/2015 - there is no self-evident protection of wages and pensions or periodically paid insurance benefits, except it must only be declared. This was exploited by certain banks - and I have no problem saying, the Alpha bank - and they said that, since they hadn't said it, they know that it is a wage or that it is a pension - the pensioner did not say it, they confiscate the pension. They do so, I repeat, banks, taking advantage of this circular of the General Secretariat of Public Income. In view of all this, you are asking what action you will take to ensure that there is a unity in dealing with the whole situation and that the law on impoverished and unpaid pensions and pensions is actually applied, and in addition to the sums seized, so that the employee and the pensioner in the courts are not troubled, in order to receive the sum due. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Red. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u81	Mr Colleagues, you raise a very serious issue with your timely question, which concerns too many citizens. I'll answer you right away. Before I enter the essence of your question, however, I should like to say something about the Circular issue that you have said. The aim of the Ministry of Finance's political leadership is at some point to stop this process of producing legislation, in essence, through circulars. Tax laws must be so clear that they do not have to come out after a circle of multipages to explain what the provisions say. It's something we're trying to do. We are not happy with this situation, but we want this story to be stopped. We want the laws to be clear and not to have to go out in circulars and even after many months, sometimes after a year. These things must be done and the laws must be clear. As far as the substance of your question is concerned, the law, as you described it sufficiently, says this particular one, but we have technical problems. First of all, the irreversible, as you know, is, in fact, a 1,000 euros plus 50%, 1,250 euros, so that people don't get confused. It is EUR 1,250 inconsistent limit monthly, for debts to the public. As far as the procedure is concerned, we want the Ministry of Finance to operate in the most automated way, without needing personal contacts from the taxpayer with any employee, without any subjective crises or other interventions or other things that we had in the past, from the tax administration. We want the tax administration, that is to say, to operate without any choice, that we are doing the alpha in this taxpayer, while in the other we are making the beta on a number of other criteria. We've had this, we want this to end. So it is quite right that taxpayers have been required to declare the misappropriated account themselves. That is right, because, if we do not follow this road and the banks choose with alpha or beta, then we will have other kinds of problems. So I, on this occasion, would like to tell you that citizens - and understand that - must rush - those who have not done so - and state electronically, in the Ministry of Finance's information system the irresponsible account, so that they do not have any problems, because so many times they come to our office requests from citizens who may not have so much access to the Internet or who have no access to an account, for any other reason or from the elderly, who have been seized by them, precisely because such an account has not been declared. So we all have to declare such an account on matters relating to wages, pensions and insurance, so that we do not have any such problems. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I think that with this account - I conclude, Mr President - we are ensuring an acceptable level of living, because - I remember - it is EUR 1,250 a month.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Red, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u83	Surely it is the taxpayer's obligation to declare the misappropriation of the account, but many banks also state this account this year as a payroll account or as a pension account. Whether or not he is unconfidential cannot be declared by the taxpayer or the principal. But many times he's already been confiscated. In these cases do you intend to apply the law in a circular to the Association of Greek Banks, apply the self-evidently, apply the law, so that the citizens are not troubled, whether they have forgotten either why they did not have access to the Internet or to accounting offices and have the money returned to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Red. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u85	Unfortunately, Mr Papoutsis, we cannot go into a retrospective situation and say that in these and in these cases, because of the problems, money must be repaid. But we will be contacting the citizens again, making a press release, informing the banks, so that this process can proceed with the statement of the account. What I would like to point out is that too many cases are negligent of the citizens and they must do so. It's not a difficult process. The Treasury, as regards its outstanding debts, proceeds with the automation of the procedure, sends the banks the mandate, does not have the ability to choose whether or not to do so, once it has been mandated by the relevant tax office, to make a commitment to the account. On the occasion of this, I would like to say that the citizens must take care of these issues, because, as far as the organization of the Ministry of Finance and the automation of procedures are concerned, the debts are automatically being sought and everything that has not been put under the protection of the irreversible special account, whenever it is bound for the interests of the Greek State. A demonstration of this course of the Ministry of Finance - which, in my opinion, is positive - is that the public debts due in January and February and March, according to the relevant information I have submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs, indicate that we have a fall in public debts, because services and citizens and businesses are better in place, despite the problems they have, comply with the most.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The second, with number 792/18-4-2016, is a top-level question by MP II Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagossou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on "subjudgment and provocacy at peaceful political events and demonstrations by Greek citizens", not discussed due to the Minister's impediment. The second, with number 787/14-2016, is a topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the arrhythmias in the functioning of the NSA and the deterioration of the working conditions of its employees, is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The seventh question, number 766/11-4-2016, on the uncontrolled action of the Greeks, is not debated by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction. The tenth under number 729/1-4-2016 topical question by MP Carditsa of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the establishment of a hosting centre at Carditsa Police School, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. We continue with the sixth question under number 756/5-2016 of the Second Thessaloniki Parliamentary Committee, Mr.Akaterini Markos, on the intentions of the Ministry for Rural Development and Food to withdraw the common Ministerial Decision amending the provisions of the Code of Food and Drinks on “Greek yogurt”. The timely question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostolos. Here, Mrs Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Greek yoghurt is not only an important part of the Greek food, but also one of the most successful export products. Yet, your government is planning its final depreciation, causing irreparable damage to domestic dairy farming. In particular, a joint ministerial decision amending the Code of Food and Drinks has been sent to the Commission for approval, from which the requirement of raw milk for yoghurt is deleted, left the margin for use of all kinds of milk, certainly weights and protein, in some cases, while no conditions are mentioned in respect of the place and method of manufacture. This decision, if it is true, will mean the end of the Greek dairy producers, which have already been affected by the lengthening of the life of raw milk, a regulation that flooded the market with imported milk and without, of course, having significant benefits for consumers, but also from the embargo which Russia has imposed on all European products. In addition, it will bring a significant blow to any attempt to preserve Greek yoghurt as PDO or PGI, but also to the high economic value of brand name "Greek yoghurt", as it will lead with mathematical accuracy to the insertion of foreign raw materials, the homogenisation of all marketed products and the cancellation of any particularity of Greek production yoghurt. Already, large industries from Turkey and the Czech Republic are attempting to peculiarize the name "Greek yogurt" and the Greek state remains undisturbed. Finally, the apparent destruction of domestic production also raises a question of food adequacy for the country, since we import one and a half times more milk than we produce. I ask you: First, do you intend to withdraw the joint ministerial decision and reintroduce the compulsory use of raw milk for yoghurt production? Secondly, what actions do you intend to take to safeguard the name ‘Greek yogurt’ and its possible patent as PDO or as PGI? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Marcus. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u89	Madam President, you are asking me whether I intend to withdraw the relevant CSR. We didn't like this arrangement either. But I would like to remind you of something that you know better than we do. The obligation in this case arose in the Memorandums that you have, on the basis of the OECD toolboxes since 2013, voted, and of course the remnants of those agreements were incorporated into the new agreement. Here is the law that we voted together in the summer of August 2015, which unfortunately and everything that has left out of the previous toolbox has entered into this law, which you also voted on. So don't talk like that in general and vaguely. There is a certain commitment here. I would like to tell you this, that what we are trying to do - at least by this regulation - is to ban the use of milk powder in the manufacture of yoghurts. Only for technical reasons - which, of course, relate to the addition of proteins in particular - are permitted. I repeat, for specific proteins and, of course, with the main difference that this use will be clearly mentioned, in a clearly legible way on the packaging, so that the consumer himself can know what he is getting. And as you know, all these products are not present, but they have been on the market for years. So we are now, of course, coming to order this issue. That is why we are making other concrete actions and synergies. A specific action and control plan for the milk market throughout the whole chain, from production, marketing and, of course, up to the consumer shelve, has already been announced in the next few years. For there are other much worse phenomena, such as those relating to the shame and misleading of the consumer, which we must deal with. That is why we are already in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, in order to see how we will best serve the traceability in this area, for the very simple reason that there is a big problem there, especially in the transport part. So we call on Greek consumers to look after what they buy. Already - and you know it - we insist that the country of origin of the raw material be recorded on the product. At the moment this obligation is optional. However, a great deal of effort is being made within the European Union to make it compulsory. However, at least the Greek industrialists should understand that we need to help domestic production, moving forward from their own side to adopting this designation of origin. I'll say more in my denture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, Mrs Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u91	Minister, I would like you to be a little more careful with me, because in 2013 I have not voted for anything. What we voted on, we voted for it here too. It is now clear that, as long as you do not remove this condition, we will now come to a paradox: selling Greek yoghurt without a single drop of Greek milk. You are well aware that the dairy industries are waiting for this regulation to start importing foreign milk. Of course, everyone who knows that's already done. There are complaints that huge quantities of milk are coming from Romania and that import quantities have tripled over the last two years. And of course, they are exploiting the absence of controls - something naturally owned by your Ministry - the opacity of milk balances, and the failure to cross-check the relevant data. We read in the Ministry's press release that you are keeping traditional yogurt, the one with the pebbles, a product, that is, which constantly has a declining demand. But you are not talking about drained yoghurt, which is also the flagship of consumption abroad and internally. Really, the CSA doesn't talk about milk powder. But can you guarantee that you do not open the ferry so that we can slowly get to the milk in ice cubes and dust and at the end have the disaster for "Greek style yogurt" and domestic livestock? Instead of producing, that is, will we only consume and import? Is that your vision of agricultural policy? We understood from the statements made by the political leadership that you disagree with the regulation, but you wash your hands, because that is what the 'bad lenders' do. Yesterday, of course, we heard you mentioning yourself as the right of the bill on cooperatives to accept it with enthusiasm. You refer to the OECD toolbox, Minister, of 2013. I have in my hands - and I will table it in the Minutes - the OECD text of proposals. He expressly speaks of our country's competitive advantage in Greek yoghurt, which creates a delicate balance between strengthening competition and promoting yoghurt as a Greek product. It expressly speaks of the need to consult market operators and any decision. It's not just dairy-industrials. They're the producers, Mr. Minister! [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Catherine Marcou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It also talks about the need for clear labelling of ingredients and the origin of information to the public. Of course, the OECD report does not mention a single element proving the reduced competition, but only speculation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You know? The Greek dairy producers have not been convinced that you have given the slightest fight. The truth is, some people are trying to take advantage of the economic advantage - I am finishing, Mr President - of the term 'Greek yogurt' and its recognition throughout the world, without the corresponding cost. Unfortunately, this also applies to the domestic dairy industry, which, in front of the temporary benefits, puts the particularity of the product at risk. It should be understood that the possible collapse of livestock farming will result in a domino effect on the production of Greek products for feed producers and supplies for the whole economy. I will give you a small example from the villages of Thessaloniki, my area. Farms, which have invested huge sums, are at risk of closure. Because, pending the regulation, great pressure is being exerted by the dairy industries. The milk last month was taken at 0.35 minutes - below costs - and for the next month, in May, it will be 0.32 minutes and if they want to. There's a waiting list in the slaughterhouses. Farmers lead their animals to slaughter, since there is no milk’s advantage anymore. Already two dairy industries have said they are leaving the market because it does not interest them. The increase in the life expectancy of milk, you see, did not have the expected results and brought imports of standardised milk incredibly large. But the same will now be repeated. Of all the things you had promised the farmers and farmers, most of them got back. I really hope, even at the last minute, that you realize that the only solution for the salvation of the country will come from Greece that produces. It is advisable to take back the "floor plaque" arrangement for the Greek stockfarming and to say clearly that you do not intend to remove this condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u92	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u93	My colleague, I know that the party to which you belonged voted for this toolbox. Now, if you've moved to some point in time, it's none of my business. I know you did agree with that toolbox. Secondly, I did not say - because you referred to my speech yesterday - that I was enthusiastic to accept this ministerial decision. You're falsifying. I said that in the arrangements we bring with the bill on cooperatives there was a first acceptance. That's all, the other one. And, of course, I repeat, we don't like it. Watch out, we don't like it anymore, we don't like to disagree and react. We have to talk about things. Some truths must be said. But we can't do any different. Of course, the consultation on this MSF has not been completed. By 19 May - we have time - we will try to do everything we can. You know, we fight until the last minute, we salvage what we can. We know it's got an impact on the space. The problems of the sector, the dairy sector, are very active throughout Europe. At the moment there is a problem throughout Europe. So what we are trying to do is to see how and within this framework we will also be able to deal with our own problems. The fact that there is an initiative, which we have launched and which has even been included in France, to make the country of origin of milk compulsory, is a big case, because the Greek consumer himself, who supports Greek products, will not be misled and will even be prepared to pay for 4 or 5 minutes more to buy the yoghurt or its milk, because he knows that the Greek beef and veal industry, the Greek livestock industry, must be supported. So that's where there's a lot of moves going. There are too many movements in the area of supervision and an ethical application throughout the movement of these products. We, therefore, have, of course, beyond what is being served in the European Commission. We have made too many moves, as I said before, to traceability. We know that this is a very big import problem, too. But let me tell you something, because you often adopt complaints, which must also be proved. And this is our effort to be able to deal with this particular problem. From there on, especially for cow farming, because we have the Rural Development Programme before us, we will try, through partnerships and groups, to do everything necessary to increase competitiveness. And competitiveness will increase if we reduce the cost of production, in order to address the great problem of feedingstuffs that the cow sector has. There's the battle. Know that having such a dynamic, Greek products and especially the quality of products of animal production will be able to stand up. That's what we serve.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having previously participated in the "Workery of Democracy" training programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and an educational attendant from the 8th Municipal School of Agia Varvaras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The fifth under number 789/18-4-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on illegal chartering of vessels, is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The first, with number 795/18-4-2016, a topical question for the second, Evia MP in New Democracy, Simos Kedicoglou, to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the draft law promoted by the Ministry for the Establishment of a Public Port of Piraeus, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The tenth third under number 753/5-2016 topical question of the second question of the MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the payments of commitments made by the Rural Development Programme (RDP) 2007-2013 will be discussed. Mr Arachovite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, immediately after the new government took office - and from you to the Ministry - you were called upon to deal directly and effectively by the end of 2015 with two major issues on the rural area, one of which was the successful completion of the Agricultural Development Programme 2007-2013 and the Operational Fisheries Programme 2007-2013, with the greatest possible absorption of the funds available in our country, under these two programmes. As regards payments under the 2007-2013 Rural Development Programme, a total of EUR 778 million was paid in the calendar year 2015. It should be noted, however, that in the recent period of 2015, while there have been payments of measures that have been outstanding even since 2012, the amounts of the projects carried over to the new programming period amount to EUR 952 million of Community contribution. In particular, the committed obligations of EUR 952 million can easily be shared into EUR 185 million for organic farming and livestock farming, EUR 75 million for other geo-environmental programmes, EUR 76 million for support for investment in agricultural holdings, EUR 117 million for support for investments in processing, marketing and development of agricultural products, EUR 114 million for land improvements infrastructures, and there are even smaller amounts in individual measures. The loss of resources, although we know that it is due to the lack of resources from the Agricultural Entrepreneurship Fund - resources that have been repaid and which are EUR 112 million - is mainly due to the failure to achieve annual objectives of previous years, from 2011 to 2014, which have accumulated absorption obligations of EUR 1,2 billion for 2015. Knowing that the procedures for the inclusion of these commitments from the previous programme, 2014-2020, which is a prerequisite for the payment of the financial aid due, are under way, we have the risk of responses from major measures for rural development, such as the one of young farmers. Attributes, of the seven thousand five hundred eighty-nine rightholders in the period 2005-2006, five thousand six hundred ninety-four, while of the thousand eight hundred forty-four to whom the payment was not completed, the ninety-one ninety-one did not apply for payment of the second instalment and the two applied for compensation. The data for the 2009 notice show that without payment completion two thousand seven hundred twenty-three out of eight thousand forty-two beneficiaries remain. The above data, in addition to depriving important resources for the development of agriculture over the next five years and depriving producers of liquidity, may be a blow to important measures for the future of rural development, such as young farmers. So you ask, Minister, firstly, what is the specific timetable for the repayment of commitments by measure and, secondly, what action has the Ministry taken to minimise the phenomenon of the award of young farmers, beneficiaries of improvement plans or other beneficiaries of the Rural Development Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u96	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, you are indeed raising a very serious issue, which concerns young farmers. The implementation of the new CAP has unfortunately had a bad impact on young farmers. It was so defined that the process, which caused us many problems. Of course, we are now in a process - this decision has already been signed - on the question of the payment of commitments. There must be a few procedures there. These are the ones concerning the adoption of the management and control system, the adoption of a decision that, as I have already said, has been signed for the commitments that have been made to join the new period, the adoption of the relevant Circular by the OPECE and the registration of operations in the Public Investment Programme. So we have already signed some of the above and are at a stage when we will actually promote all the relevant contracts to be signed, and immediately thereafter the relevant circular of payments will be issued. What I would like to say to you is that, of course, these decisions must be signed with the other ministries and, of course, also included in the Public Investment Programme, so that the necessary appropriations can be provided. As to the actions of measure 214 on agri-environment, you know that we have a very big problem, which comes from the past. We are trying as far as possible to settle this and we believe that, in the first half of 2016, aid will be possible for beneficiaries of the remaining years, 2012-2013. A large number of that period has been paid, but all the rest of 2012 and 2013, all these loose ends, have to be finished. Of course, within the second half of 2016, we must also finish with the 2014 and 2015 payments. The second process concerns the completion of the new integrated information system for rural development. His receipt from OPEKEPE is in the final stage. The last checks, I would say, are carried out to be tested in production by paying for a batch of improvement plans within April, within the days. Of course, as far as the rest of the projects are concerned, the next period, since the control of the system goes well, we will also make payments for the rest of the projects. In my dentistry, I'll talk about the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Arachovite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u99	Minister, thank you for the answers. We have not, however, cleared up two issues. The first thing to do with the agro-environmentals, which we have had unpaid actions already in 2012, is that no people have been paid for, who had been compromised since 2011 and the first year of payment was 2012. You gave us a timetable, but here we would like to clarify - because the question was clear - whether there are any objections or whether there are any questions of sanctions. The first element, therefore, concerns the beneficiaries of measure 214. The second element, which is worrying and at the heart of the question, is whether we will have response phenomena, both to beneficiaries of the programme for young farmers and to beneficiaries of the improvement plans. Because you are well aware that, at least for young farmers, we have already had a statement from the beneficiaries since 2013, while for the beneficiaries of the improvement plans - which you have gladly told us that they will be paid in April - we have phenomena that have submitted their application in 2015, that is, in the short term, for the programme, but that for technical reasons from the OPEKEPE could not be done in 2015 nor with the extension of the first two months for the payment, and these people are now in the air, not knowing whether they will continue to implement 100% of the improvement plan or have to endure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Arachovite. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u101	My dear colleague, I have already said that an effort is being made on agri-environmental grounds, but it is so complicated! Each payment overturns all previous ones again from the beginning and again from the beginning. We will try, as we said, by the end of 2016, to have completed all these loose ends. The question you raise and it is, in fact, very serious is to see how to minimize the responses of young farmers as far as possible. Of course, we must make it clear from the outset that there are contractual obligations and there are many cases where these contractual obligations, as a whole, are not being implemented. So you realise that we must of course be in agreement with the regulation, but we must also see how we can deal with all these difficulties. We, for our part, are in a process of controlling all these situations. We will try, together with the possibilities we have, to deal with the problems - I would say - not with the logic of imposing sanctions, but with the logic of resolving the problems. And because we want, by addressing these issues, to bear in mind that there is a regulatory procedure within the European Commission, we are putting the matter on the table. And I tell you that in many cases the institutions, the European Commission, interprets as it wants and judges these problems. For our part, we are still going to move - and we are talking about a political decision - and the process of covering all these problems that have arisen in young farmers and in stock. This, of course, is about June. However, I think that, particularly for young farmers, having before us the Rural Development Programme - we have already made progress yesterday on a pre-publishment of the measures and possibilities of young farmers with the new Rural Development Programme from aid to improvement plans to other problems - there will be lists of who are entitled to enter the programme within the next few days. I would say that we need to create the conditions for young farmers, we need to solve the problems and see what is going on ahead. Penalties are a very big issue, but the framework and conditions that they define are so strict that we need a great deal of effort to unleash and move forward. I have nothing more to say, because only when all infringement control procedures are completed, then we will see how we deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds to clarify something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u104	No, Mr. Arachovite, please. It can't be done now. The previous Members have also asked for the floor for the third time. You know well what the Rules of Procedure stipulate and how the procedure is. Then the Minister will need the floor to answer and go to tertiary and quadrants. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the Parliament is organized and how the Parliament is organised, forty-five students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd High School of Chania, the second department. The House welcomes them. The third, with number 794/18-4-2016, is a timely second question by the MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios, Minister for Health, on the need to prevent, treat and support the cancerous Volos, is not discussed due to an impediment of the relevant Minister. The third question with number 2808/193/1-2-2016 question and application for the submission of documents of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK-DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital, is not discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister. The fourth under number 793/18-4-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the safeguarding of all the workers' working and insurance rights at "ELECTRONIC ATHENS", is not discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister. We will now discuss the fourteenth with number 750/5-2016 topical question of the second question by the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK-DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the payment of the balance of subsidies to producers in the country. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in answer to my colleague's question earlier, a lot of tears fell, son. "We don't want it. We do not do it with joy." Honestly, that is, we're moved. You and Mr. Spirtz are causing us to sympathize with you. Psychological support you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u106	I didn't see you crying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u107	Look. If you were to say that before the elections last year, you would be entitled to repeat them now. Last year, before the elections - I mean September - you took out a press release, in which you said 'white in the agricultural sector, if they happen too, will the toolbox be applied'...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Kegeroglu, let's get to the question procedure, that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u109	I'm right in the question, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u110	All right now, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u111	Yeah, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u112	Go ahead and ask questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u113	I am in the question, Mr President. The Minister doesn't need protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u114	Now don't give me anything, which, if you'll excuse me very much...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u115	I have some time, you'll tell me I'm done. Let me develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u116	Do you have a complaint, Mr. Kegeroglu? Are you protesting about time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u117	Do you want me to stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u118	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u119	Then what is the reason for your intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u120	Come on a little bit on the question. Ask the questions, so that the Minister's answers can begin and take the floor again. Please, there's the bill later on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u121	But you are President and you are entitled to that. So if the Minister said what he said last year, he would have the right to say it again. Last year he said exactly the opposite, and he said a lot of lies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Look. The fact that you are hitting everything creative and productive - I told you yesterday - that is the disgrace of your Government. The dishes and yoghurt are evenly equated. And all Guria's toolbox not only you've adopted it, but also every time the Prime Minister wants to say that he does something, he meets with Guria. In this situation, therefore, producers need aid and subsidies more than ever. And the question is: Because you have four - five months to delay giving the second phase of the aid - as you call it, single, greening, basic, non-basic - when will the rest of the basic aid be paid and when will the examination of objections be completed? In order for producers to have at least one disposable there, since you are cutting everything else out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u122	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Kegeroglu, you really continue to be alarmed when this toolbox, to which you refer, was in the memorials that you signed and their remnants, in fact, both you and we both accepted in the summer. As regards the paper you mention, it was not before the September elections, it was before the referendum. And, of course, you will see, when the tax and insurance bill comes, whether most of the things mentioned in the bulletin, through the relevant negotiation, have succeeded. Now, as far as the payments are concerned, we have said and said that we have new CAPs, which have another architecture in its allocation, and this CFP has created problems not only with us, in too many European countries. And we said we made the payment from the first countries. We were the first to make that payment in December. And, of course, payments are now being made through the procedures that we have said since the beginning and we are continuing to do so. What concerns farmers is whether there will be payments. As I said last night, I repeat it again, because there was a communication from the OPEKEPE on the subject, the final rights of basic aid have been announced, which means that within the days there will be payments for the remainder of the basic payment, for greening. Of course, there was a problem with the balancing on the Aegean islands. All this will be paid. The calculation is to pay about 650 million. Now, about whether we're in chaos. We inherited situations which force us, in fact, to keep in mind one thing in this process, not to have financial corrections, fines. Unfortunately, all of you, when you are in place, ignore that in this country, the rural area was not a year in which there was an average of 300-400 million fines. In 2015, after audit, there was no that. So we shouldn't count too hard on this thing? For, Mr Colleague, if we respond to all of what is being searched for by charging and fines, 20% of the aid has already been lost on the way. And he's lost because of your behavior.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u124	You have the floor, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u125	I cried again. Will you answer us when the aid will be paid? And, of course, tell us about the extent to which these subsidies, which relate to the second instalment, the completion of repayment, in other words. Every year it took place until December, and this year you didn't do it either January or February or March or April. Are you going for May? Will you tell us when? You put a excise duty on wine, you allow dust to be used in milk, you do all about which we did not even think about discussing the previous period. We went to throw the government away for five or seven days of milk for fresh milk. Don't you remember? However, it is tragic that you should also come along with what was rejected by us, based on the study by Mr Gurias, to adopt them. It is tragic for you, and in particular for you who have expressed themselves against, to accept them, just to continue to have power management. And you do it whining. That's a personal concern to you, too. Because only you and Mr. Spirtz are doing it like this. The rest of us say 'we've changed, you guys, okay'. It is not possible, however, every time for 15, 16 months now to come and play the same badly-written scenario on your part. Finally, let us see, in a framework of understanding, what needs to be done on agricultural production, how we should best ensure aid, funding, programmes for farmers. And if we don't get there, then complain. But in milk - dust we will never return. That's easy. So tell us - if you are prepared to answer this - when these aids will be paid and what percentage they will be and when the objections that have already been raised will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u126	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u127	For the third time I repeat. The rest of the basic aid, the 'drug' and the compensatory compensation for the islands of the Aegean, which were not paid in December, will be paid. It is a total of about 650 million. On the Great Week there will be an increase in liquidity of 650 million euros in the province. And if that is what you think it is not serious and does not strengthen the region, it is yours. Now, as far as the part you are constantly repeating is concerned. We voted for the agreement, and you together, of course, all those who defend the country's European path, and then we went to the Greek people and farmers and to the entire Greek society and said that this is what we voted on. The Greek people too - because they know the possibilities we have for negotiating their own negotiations - authorised us, on the basis of the agreement, to defend what we have in our minds must be done in Greek society, in the rural area. And that is what we are doing, Mr President, and with the toolboxes that you have voted on and adopted, and of course with all that you have left as our legacy over the last six years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We will now discuss the second question by number 3926/11-32016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the Kalamium Dam of the Municipality of Vianno. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u129	I can now, when he got in the way and the negotiation thing, can't I say? Once the negotiations have not been concluded, Minister, with what right did you send this project to the Commission? Tell me what law has approved the whole OECD toolbox? For the past I say, do not mention the summer when you forced the parties to support the country's European position and not what you agreed to. So you're unsuccessfully negotiating. And the other ministers at least put forward a resistance for the types and say that here or there we disagree. You sent it. Did you say that for a commendation? Don't you understand? Minister, the Rural Development Programme also includes the financing of infrastructure projects necessary for this agricultural production to support people. And since during each period the budget is limited, projects which either have a technical shortage or have not updated authorisations and studies are not included. Unfortunately, these projects are many. In Heraklion, some projects in Crete did not succeed in joining in the previous years, although large projects such as Fanerome, such as Placiotissa - and continue now to be completed - and other smaller tanks. We have two very important works in the Municipality of Viannos, the St. Vasilios Amuras dam and the Kalamino dam that have been studied, but have not been integrated. Why do I specifically ask you the question about Calami? Because while the Amyra dam was a complete answer from the other Ministries, for the Kalamium dam you sent me a response the same as Amyras, changing only the name, i.e. instead of the Amyra dam, you put a Kalamium dam. But what I'm asking you, do you know what it is? Not when the Ministry, as a neutral observer, declares the Rural Development Programme, the infrastructure sector, which will be mature, whether it is proposed, etc. I would like to ask you whether, as a director of the Ministry, you have the Directorate for Enhancement Works, big - small dams - I do not know exactly what the name is - you will take some initiative on the projects that have not been included in the programme in the past and are close to maturity, so that this famous maturity can be updated, all of them updated, so that it can actually join. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u130	Mr Evangelos Apostolos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, Mr L.4336, who ratifys the agreement that we adopted together, on the part concerning reforms when it comes to the issue of product markets and the business environment, says very simply that the remaining OECD toolbox 1 and 2 recommendations must be implemented by October 2015. These are in response to whether you resisted, what effect would be on your resistance, which you yourself voted on afterward. I now come to the point you raised, because we really need to see how we are going to help agriculture in particular with specific projects. The Ministry of Agriculture's Public Investment Programme - as you can see - has very limited resources on the national side. And, as you can see, integrating such projects through this process is causing us a great deal of trouble. In the co-financed programmes, however, we are seeking to do so and we are discussing it. Therefore, the Kalamati Municipality of Viannos Dam, after being proposed to join the new programme, by the competent bodies - we will see from whom, OTA I grade II, the question is that there must be a similar proposal on their part - it will be assessed with all the other requests that will be collected from the whole territory and prioritised, of course, according to the requirements of the new Programme for Rural Development. In the context of the call for this measure, therefore, is the 4.3.1 concerned with land improvements infrastructure, we are compiling proposals, which will be assessed according to the selection criteria for projects for this programme period. However, even though you are helping - I mean, of course, local government - and we gather projects that will be fully mature, we update studies, permits, etc., we have no problem. And we are looking for such proposals so that we can serve the Rural Development Programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u133	I hope that the matter will be closed and understood in relation to the Minister's re-referral to the OECD toolbox. But exactly what we rejected in the first and second memorandums, they brought you to the third and you signed the tails, as you said the rest. And Parliament was also forced to approve, because you combined it with the country's exit from the Eurozone. That's what happened. It's just things. But you are mistaken: While the evaluation was up to October - it is said that by October you should have implemented the milk powder issue - the evaluation has now been carried forward. It hasn't been closed and it's been negotiated. So what am I just saying - just? Why do you not raise the matter again that we cannot do this, why drug the production of this sector? I am telling you this, and I hope you will make use of it in the next few days. Now, what we do about the bills from now on, and so on, is another matter. Let's go to that particular matter. I want the assistance of the Ministry. I want the Ministry not to be neutral. The municipality has no possibility - and indeed it is mountainous, it is also under ten thousand - to update the technical study, neither economic nor licenses. I would say, then, that if you are asked before the invitation to include not the project, but to update the studies on the two projects in question or on one, the one, which concerns my question today, will you do so? That's what I want you to say. It is very important that studies are up-to-date and mature as soon as the invitation is made. It's an area - you know, I think - which is about greenhouses. They are dynamic crops, bring income to our country and employ people. And you know that while the whole countryside has been abandoned - and especially the mountain villages, it is also Nikos Igoumenides's colleague there - because of many factors, the coastal areas that we have the greenhouses, are very dynamic, with strong economic and social life and have kept the world from leaving towns and abroad. So it is of great value to prepare it. And I want your goodwill there so that if they submit a request for an update of the studies in the Public Investment Programme - I do not think it will be more than 150,000 costs for each dam from both - you will do so. If this concerns all of Greece, say that from the Public Investment Programme 5,000 will be allocated for updating the studies. It is not neutral with regard to what needs to be done. He's not an observer. It is not just a manager of European co-financed funds. If that's the case, badly! It should also be a lever, a guiding structure for regions and municipalities. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u134	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u135	Mr Colleague, let's close the previous issue. The contributions that have been left, together we have signed them and - as you can see - there are some commitments. We are trying, as far as possible, to make the effects on rural areas and society more milder and more generally. From that point on, I don't think we need to go on with this conversation. Indeed, there is a question - especially for the region - of adopting these projects. There's a great need for the area. The issue of irrigation in the area in question and in the greenhouses - so we definitely need to - we will see it. The pressure for funding from the Public Investment Programme, at least all the studies and what it needs, is on it. From there on - as I have said and I repeat - it is not a matter for us to decide. However, that we will try and try to integrate many such projects through the Rural Development Programme and we will do so. Of course, there is also a need for the involvement of rural players. Yesterday we were discussing in the context of partnership, cooperatives. You see, however, that we cannot agree on an effort that we are going to make either. And local selfgovernment must also be interested in rural areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u136	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u137	We will continue the debate in the bill on cooperatives after a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We enter the fifth under number 762/8-4-2016 a topical question by MP Kavala of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the urgent coverage of the needs of refugees and migrants hosted in the municipalities of Kavala and Pangaiou. Here, Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am going straight to the point, because it is a matter of substance. It was an urgent matter for local government and we need to say specific things and I and you, I imagine. On February 24, the transport of refugees and immigrants from the island of Lesvos to Kavala began because of the ferry connection of the two ports. There, of course, came, welcoming and hosting about a thousand refugees. There were few more in the first few days, but then the number of thousands stabilised. Some eight hundred were hosted in the structure of the Municipality of Kavala, which was originally the local exhibition centre, which was the most costly in terms of operating costs. The Municipality of Pangaios hosted some two refugees in the closed gym of Eleftheropolis. The total expenditure incurred was entirely covered by the two municipalities. In the case of the Municipality of Pangaios, the metropolis contributed. It was her responsibility to feed. In Kavala feeding is most of the cost. Approximately half the cost goes to the feeding of refugees and migrants. That is where the municipality fully covered it with money. Today, therefore, after about fifty days of hospitality, the total amounts to 400,000 euros. The costs, of course, include transport, hospitality, feeding, cleaning of space, even restoration of places now that the eight hundred Kavala have left the exhibition centre, have been covered exclusively, as I said, from the resources of the municipalities. The State did not - at least at the beginning - provide direction and directive on what had to be done with these people and, of course, did not make any provision to cover expenditure. The directive was, "Help them, welcome them and don't worry about the costs, we'll see". As early as 20 March, there are oral assurances from the Minister that some expenditure will be covered. On 25 March, too, these assurances were confirmed. On 5 April the Municipality of Kavala addressed the General Secretariat of the Decentralised Administration, sending there the decision of the Economic Commission of the Municipality to approve expenditure carried out to the nearest amount I told you. On 6 April the City Council made a budget reform for expenditure incurred for the third time. Now - and I had anticipated this on several occasions also from the Step of the House - we are entering a phase that the municipalities in general - especially the Municipality of Kavala - are beginning to have a failure to deal with the problem. And I think it is time for the ministry, the central state, to come and financially strengthen these municipalities that have already been made - and continue to do so as long as refugees are still hosted - expenditure. As I told you, the cost of having eight hundred people every day at a cost which, of course, sometimes, because of the award of a contract to suppliers exceeds perhaps the cheapest we could have, is too great and the municipalities are no longer able to cover it. Especially the Municipality of Kavala. Here too, the state must come to strengthen as much as it can, but also give some direction as to the ability of the municipalities to absorb European funds to keep these hosting and hosting structures running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u140	The question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Balafas. Mr Balafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Panagiotopoulos, MP Kavala, for his question enables me, on the one hand, to refer to the remarkable offer of a large majority of local government agencies to deal with the refugee problem. On the other hand, it enables me to inform him specifically and widely of the Greek people, as well as the Local Government agencies of the Regional Unit of Kavala, of how these municipalities are supported, in general, the municipalities and regions that have or have accommodation spaces to cover their costs and their costs. I would add that, of course, Mr Panagiotopoulos knows - the specific municipalities you mentioned - Kavala and Pangaios - no longer host refugees. It was temporary hospitality - of course notable, welcome, but temporary - for about a month, in specific, existing structures. Fortunately, the Armed Forces did not have to intervene to build infrastructure. There were appropriate infrastructures. In the Municipality of Kavala there was an exhibition area of the Chamber of Commerce and in the Municipality of Pagaios there was a closed municipal gym that could not have been able after the end of March, as we had been informed and as we had heard, to continue to host refugees. Therefore, after consulting the mayor of Kavala with us - and especially with me - there was a coordinate departure and transfer of the seven hundred twenty refugees hosted in Kavala and about two hundred fifty in Pangaios, to other organized hospitality structures for as long as these people need to be there, either in New Karvali or outside the Regional Unit of Kavala, in Epirus or in Polykastro, in Kilkis. All of this, I repeat, has not been interpreted by the state, although we consider it to be, and I say this in passing, that both the municipalities and the regions and the decentralised administrations and the central state are a chain throughout the public administration and is not cut apart from each other. The city is now asking for money from the central state. But there is one understanding. And there was a very good cooperation with the Municipality of Kavala in this matter. After stressing again that, after the first 10 days of April, they are not hosted in Kavala and Pangaiotopoulos, I should also like to inform Mr Panagiotopoulos, in reply to the first two arms of his question, that on Tuesday, 19 April, the day before, we signed up for the financing of the Municipality of Kavala with EUR 90,000, as I had assured a few days ago the mayor, the Municipality of Pangaios with EUR 20,000 and the Regional Unit of Kavala as a whole with another EUR 50,000. However, for a number of other municipalities and regions that still have - and for as long as necessary - hosting places and spending on them and spending on them, some EUR 2.8 million was allocated from national resources. There is a third part of Mr Panagiotopoulos's question concerning European funding, namely measures to cover expenditure from European Union funds and additional expenditure. I am telling you that these European funds allocated to the refugee - immigrants - asylum at this stage are being disbursed from the European Union's regular funding allocations. In order to manage these funds and also to manage national resources, a Special Coordination and Program Management Agency of the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Internal Security and Other Resources Fund was established in the previous days. These procedures will provide further funding. I would like to say that both Mr Panagiotopoulos and the other Members - particularly Northern Greece, who raises a great deal of weight on the issue of refugees' hospitality - can continue - and they must continue - to have a cooperation either at the level of information or at the level of addressing this complex problem. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Panayotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u143	Minister, with all due respect and sympathy, I do not want you to thank me. I want you to give the money to the municipality of Kavala, to cover expenditure mainly. From there on, it is also inaccurate what you say, that refugees are not currently hosted. Yes, they no longer host refugees at the Kavala Municipality, at the exhibition centre - they have left there - nor at the closed gym of Eleftheroupolis the Municipality of Pangaios. However, a camp has been created in a nearby area, at the exhibition centre, where some refugees are hosted there. This camp, of course, took place at the initiative of the military engineer. They are therefore hosted by refugees and they are also spent. From there on, the reason I asked this question was double. The first is that they have, in fact, gone too far, many of the costs have been incurred by the municipalities and they have to be covered with the assistance of the State and, secondly, if the municipalities continue to have these outstanding costs, if these costs are not met, then the municipalities — in particular the Municipality of Kavala and the Municipality of Pagaios — will not be able to be consistent with their own citizens, no matter what this means to public opinion on this problem as a whole. At the moment that we are talking, I, as you say it, think that it is true, despite the general issues of credibility in the government as a whole. It is therefore true and I am pleased that they have been disbursed or rather a decision has been taken to grant this amount. But, at the moment we're talking, there's no decision on "DIAGYIA", the municipality hasn't taken any money. Of course, there is your assurance, which I take in cash. So I hope that this amount will soon be disbursed. However, there is also one point that you need to clarify whether these costs will also cover feeding costs, which are about 50%. According to information, feeding is not included in the costs to be covered by this amount, so you understand that there is the question that 50% of the costs will be left uncovered so far. I think you should be placed on that. The second issue, with which I am closing, is the issue of the absorption of European funds, which is the major issue, namely whether the country can - financially, I mean - the terrible costs incurred by this burden. There are two bodies here. The AMIF, which is the Asylum and Immigration Fund and the ISF, the Internal Security Fund, established by the European Union and donating Greece with an amount - correct me, if I am wrong - 474 million for the period 2014-2020. Of this amount, according to my information and data, an amount of 18 million has been deposited with the Bank of Greece for the first and 15 million for the second, i.e. about 33 million for first payments. However, a single euro has not been absorbed, because it is simply right now that the management system has not been set up. Indeed, according to L.4375/2016, if I am not mistaken, with FEK in early April, a Special Secretariat and Special Coordination and Management Agency for Asylum and Abuse of Community Resources was set up in the Ministry of Economy and Development. Mr. Stathakis, that is, he's in charge. And I wonder if this makes this problem easier, or if we are going to start getting involved again with resilience, unresponsibility, etc. What needs to be done is to move the country rapidly through its government in order to absorb these funds. I have proposed to Mr Musala in the debate that has taken place here in this House about a month ago that the General Secretariat of the Decentralised Administration, as the government had intended, should not be chosen as the intermediate management body between local government and the central state, but that it should be made a special management agency, in order to obtain the lists of expenditure incurred by local authorities which have been proven and documented by evidence, with invoices, etc., to organise them, in a file on a case by case and to promote them from there and beyond to the competent body of the European Union, in order to disburse these funds. It is vital for me, for the municipalities to bear weight and continue to lift it. Imagine what would have happened, if they had given their reserves to Varoufakis last year, in what weakness they would have been at the moment to cover these costs until the system was organised and run. This must definitely come in a row. As I told you, not only did the municipality of Kavala - just, the municipality of Kavala gave me the evidence and I have an absolute picture - but many local authorities that currently host refugees and immigrants will soon be in economic weakness. The state here must come and solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u144	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u145	Let us stay on the stable ground of the problem, as it is essentially and objectively. I think that's what Mr Panayotopoulos wants, to solve issues, to promote them, to take a step forward. Not only - it is not Mr Panagiotopoulos' intentions - to do without reason, say, collapsing or opposition, to look up and destroy the other one. I think that is not our purpose, and I think I am expressing Mr Panagiotopoulos in this. In Kavala and Pangaios, we do not face a serious problem like in other areas. Thank God. Mayor Kavala, the Mayor of the Pangaios, helped, gave the people two suitable spaces available, ready, people entered, left a month, left. There may be some remarks there, but I leave them. Not all things as they happened in Kavala coordinates humanly, dignified. People left with understanding. Some expenses have been incurred, of course. We've given the first money, 90,000, 200,000, 50,000 euros, and we've been waiting for the proof of what they've done to disburse the money. That's how they're disbursed, you know that better than me, we don't generally give money to go anywhere. They go on the basis of cost proofs made. On the matter of feeding, too, we'll find that formula. There will be no - especially where expenditure is no longer added - no matter what. I assure you, and this is the spirit of the communication that we have with the Mayor of Kavala and with the region here, but also with the Decentralised Administration of Macedonia - Thrace. The formulas will be found, the first money is already taken, the evidence comes, there will be all the time. Now. There is a second issue, the continuation of funding. Finally - and not on our own responsibility - we see that Europeans and the European Union are stubborn in giving money. Don't take them out of oil, there's a problem there. Finally, they understood it and a financial flow began. We believe that the best way, the clearest, most concrete and effective way of managing these amounts centrally, but also the corresponding national resources, is through the Deputy Minister - I am saying, the corresponding structure - Mr Haritsis. I don't mean, personally, the corresponding structure. From there there will be the flow, control, allocation of resources, so that there can be a multiplication - we believe - gradually so that we can meet the other needs. Let me tell you something else. I said earlier the remarkable offer of a large majority of local authorities, municipalities and regions. But I must say positively - I am not interested in negative assessments and criticisms at the moment - the great contribution it has, it has and will have in the next time the Army, the Armed Forces to the most difficult of the issues that are about finding places - because there we had a problem with various actors - to place spaces and to prepare suitable places for the reception of refugees for as long as they have to stay in our country and we hope that they will not be huge at this time. Despite the economic difficulties that we face as a country, I think - and this is not of any kind of beauty - we have dealt with matters with dignity, taking into account the public interest, the interests of the Greek people, but also the obligation that we have in the name of the value of solidarity and the understanding of the weak, the devastated, the persecuted one from his place. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and four educational sessions from the 12th Municipal School of Xanthi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. At this point we will have a short break and come back with legislative work, according to the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Agricultural cooperatives, forms of collective organisation of the rural area and other provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after being toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Agios Konstantinos Aitolokarnania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate, I think it is advisable to refer to today, as nine years are closed from the diversion of democracy. We know that the dictatorial regime of 21 April 1967 was imposed on a group of jurors on the night of 20 to 21 April 1967. The "infidel" and supposedly "paranoid" likes of Georgios Papadopoulos, very systematically, semi-conspiracy, with their undeniable organizational abilities, their links with the American secret services, established a military emergency regime, violating every sense of legality. The primary and main purpose of the coups was the cancellation of the parliamentary elections that were called for 28 May and the resurgence of political developments through the enforcement of the "national revolution", as they called their junta regime. It is no original term in European history. As a "national revolution" - in introductory terms - Italian fascism and German national socialism and the Salazar regime in Portugal and the Franco regime in Spain were self-determined. This regime has been able to remain in power for over seven years. The dictators and their organs were guilty of all kinds of crimes, of the recent betrayal that still bleeds the territory and the citizens of the Republic of Cyprus, murders, torture, physical injuries, illegal arrests, prisons, exiles of thousands of citizens, arbitrary deprivations of citizenship, arbitrary redundancies and persecutions of every class - university, judiciary, hierarchy and simple clerical, officers - to fraud, abuses of money and power. Today, forty-nine years after the diversion of democracy, we must stress that the importance of resistance to the American-mobile junta is still a valuable asset, especially in our day, when racism, xenophobia and nationalism are spreading to Europe. On the occasion of the military coup on 21 April 1967, the Bureau of the Greek Parliament underlines the need for constant vigilance and vigilance to strengthen democracy and popular sovereignty. The anti-diplomatic struggle is the compass for the constant effort of the Greek people for emancipation and progress. This effort has been inspired over time by the democratic tradition of struggles against the dictatorship. The Greek Parliament does not forget the black anniversary of April 21st. She remembers her dramatic consequences and the costs she caused in the country. Memory is the lighthouse of history and in this direction the Greek Parliament honors the struggles for democracy and lies alongside all the peoples who fight for political and social emancipation. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some communications from the parties about today's debate in plenary. From the Independent Greeks it is defined as a special speaker, MP, Mr. George Lazarides. From the People's Association - Golden Dawn it is defined as a special speaker, Evia, Mr. Nikolaos Michos and as a parliamentary representative, MP, Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros. We shall now proceed to the debate. The first is the SYRIZA Member, Stavros Arachovitis. Here, Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, I was first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u149	I'm sorry, you didn't say yesterday. You can talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u150	Let Mr Arachovitis first speak, and then I will.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u151	Yeah, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u152	Mr. President, are there any new records?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u153	No, there's no new records. We have forty-eight registered people, so you understand we have to finish sometime. Here, Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Fellowships and colleagues, for SYRIZA, is a spearhead for the formation of a new model of social enterprise, the regeneration of the cooperative movement, not only for the rural world but also for the entire economy and its foundation on new, healthier foundations. A debt of our own to the rural world is being made today by depositing the essential legal framework that will give back - I am sure - to the producers the confidence they need to frame and control the cooperatives. It is now established to our people that the responsibilities for the degeneration of cooperatives and even worse - the idea of cooperation in the rural area are equally burdening the PASOK and the New Democracy. With their tolerance, the covert of irregularities and their vote, customer practice gained strong foundations in the cooperative area. They led the cooperatives to a particularly unfavourable position. The reasons for the dissolution are many and I would remind you of the following: First and foremost, the clear political choice of the sale of the Agricultural Bank, with all the consequences for the financial strangulation of the cooperatives. Secondly, the gigantoma and the preservation of mismanagement and opacity. However, this all has as a operative cause a legal framework with specific provisions, allowing poor financial control and total absence of state control, but also the introduction of the sovereignty of partyism with an electoral system - the multi-stage system - which enabled strong majority groups to form and resulted in corruption being established. The financial crisis of 2010, which in the situation of the cooperatives, was not ready to cope with, was also added to all of this. Last law, n. In the years of its implementation, it remained essentially without being applied either universally or compulsoryly, nor should it be abolished. However, through the extension of the stay of administrations, the entire operative framework of depreciation was in fact maintained. At the same time, Mr. It also maintained the antidemocratic way in which the administrations were elected, maintaining in Article 16 the high number of crosses, 1/2 in relation to the positions of members of the board of directors. The prospect of converting the cooperatives given to the n. In fact, it enabled the problematic rural cooperatives to disperse themselves and by association with the NSAs, associations, to create unsustainable forms. Once again, it is absolutely urgent and necessary for the government to reconstruct and develop cooperatives. The first objective is to regain the producers' confidence in the cooperative idea. However, the aim is also to create strong, productive primary cooperatives, and this is why the statutory tradition of 80% of members' production in the cooperative is laid down in the draft law. The draft law ensures a democratic framework for the operation and promotion of cooperative administrations, which will be subject to the direct control of their members by applying the principle of "one member, one share, one vote", which prevents outdated centralisation and control of the cooperative. The increased two-thirds of the members are explicitly predicted for very specific decisions on the property and viability of organisations. Phenomena of the past that a group took critical decisions have finally ended. The 1/3 oligostasy for the election of management bodies ensures the introduction of simple proportional and democratic elements in the functioning of organisations, preventing administrative control phenomena by direct majority voting. It is also planned to alternate the Presidents with a limited number of terms, so as to avoid a situation in the future. On the other hand, we believe that all those involved in the public should have their chance to develop their potential. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude my position, I would like to dwell on two amendments which we have tabled together with colleagues. The first amendment has two legs. The first is to supplement the provisions of the Constitutional Law of the Agricultural Chamber of Greece. The Chamber of Agriculture was unable to organise training, resulting in the loss of valuable resources in these difficult circumstances. The amendment corrects this distortion. The proposed regulation of the second part of the amendment restores the right to compensation per hour and per check on geotechnical workers carrying out controls outside normal working hours and employs the Greek State and OTA officials. The second amendment concerns the country's long-awaited agricultural world, which regulates the employment of land workers living irregularly in the country. This regulation has to bring many benefits to the country, both to farmers and to those insurers who have lost resources and to the immigrants themselves who will now become visible. To this day, they were circulating hiding while living in inhumane conditions. This regulation eliminates phenomena of the past leading to the country's convictions - we all remember what I am talking about - at the Court of Human Rights. I ask the Minister to accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u155	Thank you Mr Stavros Arachovitis, MP of SYRIZA. I will inform you that the Minister will be placed on which parliamentary amendments he accepts as soon as he is ready. We are now moving on to Mr Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u156	He won't tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u157	He'll tell us, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u158	We'll talk soon and we want to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u159	Yeah, I get it. We won't be long, don't worry. You have the floor, Mr. Mitarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak in particular about Article 32 of the draft law which effectively abolishes the forced cooperatives. It has been a regime which has been in operation for many decades, with positive economic results for members, producers and the Greek economy, and which is explicitly provided for in the Greek Constitution, Article 12(5). The purpose of the establishment of these forced cooperatives was to protect, firstly, the special and unique products of nature and, secondly, the producers themselves. Let us, for example, take the Chios Mastic Producers Association set up in 1938 and succeeded, firstly, in characterising mastic as a product of designation of origin, secondly, in financing scientific and research programmes, thirdly, in implementing an effective product promotion strategy worldwide. The Chios Mastic Producers Association has recently been able to recognise mastic as a traditional medicinal product by the competent European body and to highlight mastic culture by recording the product on the list of the monuments of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of UNESCO. For these reasons, mastic producers are now on the streets of Chios and demand that the existing regime be maintained, with a mobilisation that is always of a general nature and support for all the operators of the island. Producers are talking about mockery and they are right to do so, as the government is coming today without any real reason and is paving the way for the abolition of compulsion, notwithstanding the fact that this institution is working and, above all, protecting small producers. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, of course, believes in the free market. It is contrary to unjustified restrictions. In economic theory, however, the concept of economic externality, which in specific cases would be unfair to the producers themselves, if in future some find themselves out of compulsory cooperative and thus exploit the common costs of promoting, certifying and advertising this particular product without any cost. And the existence of producers outside the cooperative would lead to a collapse of these structures. They could no longer conclude trade agreements because they would not know the amount of mastic they have in the years to come and would not have the incentive to invest in further certification and promotion. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it would be more honest than the provision we are about to vote on today to tell us clearly what the Ministry wants to do with the necessity and answer specific questions. Question 1, do you want to be forced, yes or no? We want it. The New Democracy wants it. All the operators on the island want it. Samos producers want it. Kozani's producers also sent you a letter and implied distribution circuits that are manifoldly attacking the compulsion. Question 2: What do you mean by this provision? You are talking about a violation of the law of the European Union and national law, in general and vaguely. With the legislative improvement you have brought the provision worse, because the 'and, when both conditions had to be met, it is 'or', i.e. 'or 'the law of the European Union or national legislation'. But in the law of the European Union you are not talking about a final judgment of the European Court of Justice, which we would all understand, as the final judgments of the Court of Justice should be recognised. However, this provision, as is general to say, may mean, for example, a letter from a Member State's official who disputes something in national law. You have a critical parameter: Forceful cooperatives exist in other European Union countries and have won cases in the European Court of Justice. I know that Greece has lost a primary decision outside the European Union at the Human Rights Court and our country, Minister, the Legal Council of State, has appealed and we are still waiting for the final decision. You are also talking about violating national legislation. This, Minister, must be removed. There can be no case of violation of national law in something mentioned by name in the Greek Constitution, which states that Article 12(5) allows the establishment by a law of forced cooperatives aimed at fulfilling public utility purposes. Consequently, the provision is general. Question 3: The amendment we tabled, as in the law which has already been in force since 1993, provides for the conversion of cooperatives only on their own request, but by a presidential decree. It is a substantial difference, because this is where the Council of State is involved. With the provision, Mr Minister, as you put it, "Yiannis is buying Yiannis"! Will you judge whether there is a general violation of European legislation without passing through the Council of State? Why are you making a joint ministerial decision and not, as already provided for in the 1993 Act, a presidential decree? Question four: Are all of this a pretext? Have you already committed itself to the institutions, to the lenders? If it is, say it directly, not to be fooled in this Chamber. You spoke to the committee we were discussing the other day, about commitments and pressures. And we were under pressure, but some things that were important to the Greek producer were done and we left them unavoidable. You, with the battles you are fighting, are bringing the National Representation to abolish the forced cooperatives today, and there is no European institution's decision to impose it. Is the assurances you give just for the sight? Last question - and I apologise, Mr President, to overcome - to end: When the country fights the Court of Human Rights, when the Legal Council of State has appealed against the primary decision, when the National Representation itself comes and makes the bill the suspicion that we may be violating European law, do we suffer the effort of the Legal Council of State, do we remove legal instruments, legal arguments from the Greek side? Because the adversary will come and will say "we, your own House, gentlemen, said that there is a case of violation, since you see it as well". Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has tabled an amendment based on the positions of the producers themselves, replacing Article 32 with something that will help to maintain forced cooperatives. Please, Minister, if you do not want to abolish the forced cooperatives, as you say, take advantage of the New Democracy amendment, with a general number of 335 and a special 38, to support it and maintain an institution that has offered a great deal to producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. We shall now give the floor to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Apostleu, to tell the House of the amendments it accepted. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u162	Mr Metarakis, you can answer us whether you want to be forced or not, because, on the one hand, you insist - and you do well - that we agree on the necessity of Chios. We have it in Parliament many times, and we really recognise its great effort and the result, and I want to be clear to you. But while you insist on Samos' compelling, why do you react when we in the law on the operation of cooperatives make it compulsory to incur 80%?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u163	We're not reacting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u164	Don't you react?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u165	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u166	Didn't you keep shouting why you're going to oblige members to bring their products in while the cooperatives have to operate freely?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u167	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u168	This is what you have as a rule in all your opposition attitudes that you have shown these days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u169	They should be regulated by statutes, we have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u170	So we repeat and really believe that in particular for Chios, even if there were no forcedness, again for the whole world that has shown absolute confidence in this function, the same results would continue. However, on the basis of the amendment you have tabled and, of course, on the basis of all the consultation that has been carried out at the moment, I will table to you the amendment to paragraph 1 of Article 32, as renumbered by the legislative improvements. Article 32 recasts as follows: ‘The conversion of the forced cooperatives and their associations into primary cooperatives in this law is carried out by a decision of the Ministers for Economic and Rural Development and Food, following a decision of their general meeting with the quorum referred to in Article 13(3) and by the majority of Article 14(2),’ - it was what many wanted, that there should be an enhanced, I would say, a direction to the request - ‘and their request to the competent authority, or to the adoption of an irrevocable judgment or to the application of national legislation. The conversion shall take place in accordance with the provisions of this Article and shall be completed within six months of the entry into force of the Decision. By the end of the six-month period, special laws regulating the operation of the respective compulsory cooperatives shall be abolished.’ That is the final wording. This is what this House, the Greek Parliament, is called upon to accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u171	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u172	It's your finding. From there on, since I am talking about legislative improvements, I shall mention another one, Mr President. In the first subparagraph of paragraph 3 of Article 49, the words ‘within six months from that time’ shall be recast with the words ‘ within one year’. And I come to the amendments, ladies and gentlemen. I made a commitment yesterday that, with the opening of the procedure, I will be able to say what and how I accept it, so that you may also be facilitated in your place. We have the ministerial amendments. There were already three debates yesterday. There's two more. The Minister responsible for Amendment No 346 is here and immediately, as soon as I finish, he will be given the opportunity to speak. There is, of course, another amendment, which I think is a relevant list - before the procedure is completed, the Minister responsible will be able to answer it. I come to the amendments tabled by my fellow Members, making it clear that three delayed amendments, which have been tabled, will not be debated because they are late. From there on, for the remaining amendments: The 327, which concerns the establishment of a country's settlement limit of up to two thousand inhabitants, will not be accepted for another reason, that it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. The 328, which concerns the abolition of excise duty on the various categories of wine, is not the point of responsibility that it is not acceptable, but it is a recent regulation and you all realise that it cannot be revoked in such a short time. 329, which deals with regulation of PASSENGER, the 330 on matters of workers in the primary cooperatives in liquidation and associations, and the 6 on insurance rights of workers in agricultural cooperatives, concern issues which need to be addressed, because it is a world that will already be found in the face of unemployment. However, when we talk about these amendments - from the institutions as they were said - there may be around four thousand people, you realise that this is a very serious matter. It is, of course, not the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development, but it remains to be seen how to deal with it. And since we are talking about a new framework for the operation of cooperative organisations, we will see how this positive experience, which these people have, will be used by the rural area in order to be able to take its next steps. I can tell you nothing more about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u173	Minister, for the amendments with general number 329 and 330, did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u174	For Amendments Nos 329, 330 and 332.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u175	Aren't you accepting them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u176	They can't be accepted. And I come to Amendment No 331, which deals with the elimination of the criminal offences reported in popular mobilisations. It is an issue for which the Prime Minister has promised intervention. The Ministry of Justice has this in mind. So the Ministry of Justice will be expedited. It's not our responsibility. With regard to Amendment No 333, which concerns the addition of an article amending the provisions of the Fisheries Code, as you can see, it is an issue that needs a particular study and specific treatment. We cannot suddenly amend code provisions. With regard to Amendment No 335, which relates to the compulsory cooperative organisations - what Mr Metarakis has said - I told you about the conversion. There is nothing I can do but what I mentioned to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u177	Minister, can we make a comment on this? I think the CSI should be replaced by a presidential decree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u178	Oh, no. That's why we're making this arrangement. In order to ensure that there is no obligation to issue a Presidential Decree. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u179	Checking the S.H.E.L.D. is positive for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u180	You'll be placed later when I'm done. There's no question. With regard to Amendment No 336, which relates again to an amendment to the Fisheries Code, it is not acceptable. With regard to Amendment No 337, which amends Article 4 of the draft law on the minimum number of members for the establishment of a fisheries cooperative, I would say that much has been accepted. Because colleagues are calling for seven of fifteen members to become a fishing partnership. We took it to ten. I therefore believe that this amendment will satisfy you, at least in part. And I come to the amendment with a general number of 338, which concerns an extension of use of hay with a duration of time. I've contacted the Treasury. This is an extension, which must indeed be done, because jobs in the middle must be helped.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u181	Are you accepting Amendment No 338, as a general rule?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u182	Yes, Mr. Comrade. As regards the amendment with a general number 339, which concerns damage to trees from climate change, you can see that these are issues relating to the ELGA Regulation. These, however, need to be documented. So this amendment cannot be accepted. With regard to Amendment No 340, which deals with the regulation of the framework for the implementation of road projects in NATURA areas, it is accepted. However, I want to stress two things. Yes, although there is a need for specific national roadworks, which must be done, but we must stress that, particularly in the protected areas of NATURA, these studies and these conditions must be carried out so that the basic protection regime for these areas is not affected and the basic protection regime for those areas is deteriorated. With regard to Amendment No 341, which concerns the priority of cooperative workers, I would say that we regard this priority as reasonable for our own part. However, it is the responsibility of another Ministry to ask a question and to table an amendment and to answer it. So this amendment cannot be accepted by me. The amendment with a general number of 342 has been withdrawn by the Members themselves. With regard to Amendment No 346, which relates to the prohibition of captivity, this is once again an amendment on which I cannot say why it is inappropriate. It can't be accepted. With regard to Amendment No 348, on the agenda...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u183	Minister, '343' was the previous one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u184	Yes! It can't be accepted. With regard to Amendment No 348, which deals with the regulation of works councils, it is now accepted. And I honestly cannot stand up to the approach that has been taken by the New Democracy and especially the head of the Europa bulletin, Mr Kefaloniann, and Members, who, not much or much, have come to the European Commission, to the appropriate Commissioners, to tell them that what we are going to do is to legitimise all immigrants and even to combine them with all that Greek society and the whole region have experienced. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear. This is an intervention, which should have been made in the rural area, because they were also demanding farmers themselves to feel that they are legitimate, that they employ workers through legal procedures, how much more so when the cost of the mistress can be used to reduce their taxable income, given that they will be registered as production costs, how much more so when especially for these people there was a need for this country to really show its sensitivity, its democratic function, because they are not second-class people, they are people who have a huge offer. And to know that particularly at European Union level, difficult agricultural jobs are carried out by these people and once one of the strong advantages of the rural area was the work of these people and we owed them, we owed it to them. So your malnutrition, especially on this matter, really, was completely unjustified. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The next amendment, the general number 349, which concerns matters of the Agricultural Chamber and of the Geographical Public officials, does not cost and have an interest in the other wings as well, from what I have seen and I think, Mr Vlato, that you too have consented to this amendment - is accepted. The next amendment, which concerns the extension of the operation of vocational schools, of the ESDP, is also accepted. So I don't think there's a reason for contradiction here. I now come to the next delayed amendments. One has been tabled, as far as I know, Mr Carras, and it concerns the retrospective ratification of notarial acts. It is a very serious matter, we will study it, we will work it out and we will deal with it in the future. Now, I cannot accept the amendment not only because it is late but because it wants further processing and study. There was an initial study yesterday from the Services. I don't accept it. The next two amendments, due to the vote and, of course, the lack of competence, are not accepted. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that with all that has been accepted, with all these corrections and, in particular, with issues that have been raised in the discussion procedure on the way to the House, we have reached a point now, which you all support, namely that it is necessary for intervention in the context of the cooperatives, to support it in practice by voting on this legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u185	Minister, I would ask the legislative improvements to be tabled to share with the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u186	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-seven students and students and four teachers from the 23rd Municipal School of Nice. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would ask the Minister of State to take the floor, Mr Nikolaos Pappas, to develop the amendment he has tabled. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an amendment which establishes a special communication service for refugee and immigration policy. I think the need for this Office to be set up is something that all the wings are aware of, because, at the top of the refugee crisis, the country should be able to inform domestics in good time, but especially the international media about the situation, which prevails, whether and whether our country fulfils its obligations under its international agreements. I think that this need should be understood by all parties. A ministerial decision is pending, which will go into the details of staffing and the number of people employed there. Head is designated as a Special Secretary. To prevent any criticism of waste, only two post-mortem employees will be employed there. The expenditure, which is caused, according to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, is a little more than 100,000 euros. In the General Secretariat of Information we have since its restructuring already saved over EUR 1.50,000 last year. I would also like to thank the Minister for his facilitation and acceptance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Minister of State, Mr. Pappas. Let us move on to the list of speakers. Mr Hussein Zabeck, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Let's have some quiet in the room, please, if you have any kindness. You have the floor for five minutes, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u190	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft 'Agricultural cooperatives, forms of collective organisation of rural space and other provisions' is a pretext for the reconstruction of the cooperative movement. A century after the legislative introduction of agricultural cooperatives, we are moving towards the reorganisation of the legislative framework for agricultural cooperatives. A component of agricultural cooperatives from the outset is the self-protection of weaker farmers. The cooperative institution is for the benefit of medium and low strata, while the proper functioning of cooperatives serves the simple and small farmer, who is an equal member and works for the well-being of the cooperative and its own economic survival. That is why cooperatives consider themselves to be an economic system with social content. They propose collective benefit to the individual and are based on collective and labour force in terms of direct democracy. With this bill, then, we are starting to reconstruct the agricultural cooperative movement, setting solid foundations and European standards for its operation. Already since the first article, in which the definition of agricultural cooperative, according to international standards, is emphatically introduced, the basic principles of cooperation, such as ownership, democratic control and solidarity, are introduced. It can now be seen that cooperatives should be a group of people rather than a fund. The inclusion of the article on women's agricultural cooperatives, in fact, is a very important part for us. The rural woman now has the opportunity, in simplified procedures, to establish agricultural cooperatives. It enables women to develop entrepreneurship, but also to promote eco-technical products and generally the rural woman to be systematically involved in the production process. At the same time, the National Register of Agricultural Cooperatives and other collective bodies attempts to give a full picture to the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, on healthy cooperatives, avoiding the suffering of the past, while allowing for the creation, whether regional or national agricultural cooperatives, at sectoral level, of which local rural cooperatives are members. Our policy on agricultural cooperatives breaks the state's high supervision by means of democratic procedures within cooperatives, as well as the always-poweredness of the Presidents, defining a specific mandate. As a whole, the bill ensures the democratic functioning of agricultural cooperatives, as the measure is introduced for one vote per member and the concept of joint-owner cooperative, promoting the principles of the social economy, with the same rights for all. In my opinion, another very promotional element of this bill is the creation of a cooperative education fund. Education is a basic cooperative principle. Thus, the members of the board of directors, i.e. the partners themselves, can be trained and trained on the operation of agricultural cooperatives. Finally, the concentration of the majority of the members' production in the cooperative automatically confers a key advantage on the agricultural cooperative, which increases its competitiveness towards the companies and the market. Producers themselves shield the rural cooperative, creating a relationship of interdependence and protection against the majorities of the rural economy. But I would like to mention the importance of this bill and the need for the agricultural productive fabric of our country with specific examples. For Xanthi, from which I come, the cooperative movement, namely the agricultural cooperatives, has always been the driving force of the rural activity of the county. The five major cooperatives of Xanthi were indeed the saving of small and medium-sized farmers and their bankruptcy proves this void. However, we cannot regard these cases as a failure of the cooperative movement. On the contrary, mismanagement and promotion of individual and political interests through cooperatives and the lack of state control have led to their closure or privatisation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A characteristic example is the chairman of a cooperative industry in the bankrupt area, to transfer to the board of another cooperative industry as Vice-President, without so far taking any responsibility for the bankruptcy of the first cooperative, with many millions. Such examples, I imagine, are a lot of things. Perhaps if the previous governments made the political choice, instead of destroying agricultural cooperatives and looking through them in potential voters and executives, to engage in real terms with the support of agricultural cooperatives, not now have we had this problem and perhaps our county has not now had the highest rates of unemployment all over Greece. It is possible for us to develop through the primary sector and stockfarming, because it is not possible for a country with such possibilities of agricultural production to have so much dependence on imports and a few exports. For this reason and, of course, to support the small and medium-sized farmers, as well as the producer groups, we choose one of our concerns to be healthy agricultural cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives that are strong, that will protect their members and create democratically with solidarity and interest in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr. Hussein Zabeck, SYRIZA MP. Before I give Mr Brutsi the floor, I will give the floor to the Minister, Mr Stathakis, because we have the negotiations in Hilton. If we wish the whole delegation to go as well as possible, I give you the floor, Minister, to develop the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm sorry about the intervention. This is an extension of time. It shall apply to those who are enrolled in Law 3869/2010, the Katseli Act, who have applied before 19 August 2015 and who shall update their data. There is a great crowd in the banks in updating the data. We had given until 3 May an extension. Based on the data we have from both banks and borrowers, it is necessary to extend for a period of two months and that is what we are proposing. By 30 June 2016, the update of the data shall be extended in order to ensure that their dossiers are complete and can be judged by the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism Mr. Georgios Stathakis. Mr Ioannis Vrouchesi, Member of the Commission. — (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council on his excellent report. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in the course of the debate I protested as a Parliamentary spokesman for the 'girl' and the continuing behaviour on the part of the majority, a process which had no precedent, namely, the tabling of amendments, whether ministerial or parliamentary. I did not reply yesterday to the objection made by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. So I answer today and say this: of course it is an inalienable right for Members to table amendments. This is within the framework of the Rules of Procedure and should not be interrupted. But there is one issue, which is wider and much more serious. Within the speed of the legislative procedure, provisions are introduced by means of amendments, which are unacceptable, which are, in essence, costly and which send the account to the Greek taxpayer, because, as is well known...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, there is no Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u196	The Minister is absent. Wait?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u197	Who says it for us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u198	If you want to wait, you can wait. If you want, you can continue. I've already notified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u199	If it's for a minute, that's fine. It's human.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u200	No, it's less than a minute. The Minister's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, then you will give me the floor from the outset to repeat what I have said. I have no problem with the Minister's absence. I think he's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u202	I don't have a problem with time either. I'll give you all the time you need. The Minister told us, however, that he was coming. Go on, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that I criticised the government yesterday, because a total of twenty-six amendments, four parliamentary, four ministerial and twenty-two parliamentary amendments were tabled. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, in criticising my objection, said that there is no problem, because parliamentarians must table and have the indiscriminate right to table amendments. Of course they have the right, of course, and they can, but there is an essential issue and democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u204	Are you telling us this? The government's not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Kegeroglu,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u206	Yes, Mr Kegeroglu, but I am interrupted for the second time, and I say that I can speak from there, if the Minister comes and wants to hear, let him come. We cannot, however, stop the parliamentary procedure. I say, therefore, that, within the speed of the parliamentary procedure, unacceptable amendments are introduced, which bring in opaque amendments, which bring direct commissions, and also rhetoric amendments, costing the Greek taxpayer, costing them, because, as is well known, the parliamentary amendments, which are imported - and most of all accepted through the wicked procedure of SYRIZA - are procedures which do not pass through the General Accounting Office of the State.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u207	They're "orders"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u208	Example: In the previous procedure New Democracy identified the amendment of three SYRIZA Members who brought in and asked the House, from the National Representation, to accept -Listenson, listen! - to delete fines from smuggling. When we, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u209	What are you talking about? Have you read such an amendment? There has never been such an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u210	When we, Minister, said we would apply for a roll-call vote, the SYRIZA Members withdrew it. So that's the example of last time. In this example now, there are three amendments, which are also unacceptable, on which we raise a very serious objection, Minister, and we will not vote on them. I start with the first thing you mentioned just before as an achievement. I had dealt with it as Minister at the Ministry of Labour. The matter of the bachelor came to me too. You're more sensitive than us, or you're better economists, you think? There is work in Greece, but Greece is a state and no one can overcome rules, laws and create national issues, because the work amendment you bring actually legalises "from the back door", as the introduction says, illegal immigrants. Minister, we have 25% unemployment. You know that? Do you know that in Greece there is 25% unemployment and that there is a legislative framework?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u211	People laugh!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u212	So I'm recording it for the unemployed to hear from us. Today symptoms - I want to mention the element - the recording of the unemployed in the OAS register is the greatest size of all times. One million, seventy - two thousand, two hundred sixteen unemployed were recorded. It's the largest historical number recorded in the OAED. Sadly, last month, in February, with a million, eighty - two thousand, sixty - four registered unemployed, the record of unemployment of all time, SYRIZA - ANEL government. The second amendment concerns the well-known Mr Polakis, who - let me say to you - is now the graphics of the political history of our country. Last night he tabled an amendment that turns politics into the middle ages. And I address you, SYRIZA colleagues. There are procedures in Greece that are well known, transparent. There is the outsourcing that public bodies and hospitals could do in transparent procedures and provide the services to cleaners in a clear, undeniable way without the Minister intervening. What are you guys doing? It's direct assignment by Mr. Paulakis. The well-known Mr. Paulakis, who said a few days ago that he would put three meters under the land journalists and from the day before, is politically persecuted by the majority of national delegation MPs and by the MPs of the New Democracy and Democratic Partnership, as far as I know, who filed a lawsuit to him. It calls for the privilege of Mr. Paulakis personally to appoint the cleaners with individual contracts! In other words, it turns the political life of our country into a political middle ages. This is it, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Do you accept such procedures? And, of course, there is also the third amendment. Mr. Pappas just left. Mr. Pappas asks for and comes and pervades it as an achievement, to create a press office for immigrants. That sounds really good. It was something like the Bank of Greece's account, which enabled the Minister of Defence to make direct assignments. I accept the communal need. I ask: should we leave and send the account again and reappoint friends and "logues"? Why, Minister, are you asking us to set up another agency and put another Secretary-General and appoint more civil servants in the state sector? Aren't you full? That's how many thousands you put. This account costs 114,000 euros only the chief! The number of officials is not being costed, because the General Accounting Office does not know what will be the number of officials to be recruited. So you also open a door to the appointment of SYRIZA's friends and party sympathizers. But let the unemployed hear them. Let the people outside the labour market listen to them, let the unemployed “Electronic” hear them, let the unemployed who are today experiencing very difficult conditions. They see a government that, within this budgetary difficulty, which is truly identifiable, appoints friends and superiors. We therefore call this policy'medium-century and darkness policy'. Now, Minister, I address you for the bill. I would like to say to you that it is a good thing that you change, as far as the compulsory cooperatives are concerned. We are in agreement because the voices from both Kosani and Samos and Chios and from my region, Santorini, were already very strong and I am pleased that we have agreed. But, as you are here, I would like you to reply to me as Minister for the Government today, if you know anything about VAT at 24%. Is it real? Is there anything the government will agree on? Is it something that will come as a SYRIZA Government account - ANEL in a few days? And if it is, I would like you to tell me: is that going to go to farmers too? Will you accept 24% of VAT to go to agricultural supplies, to farmers' raw materials, Mr. Minister of Rural Development? Because yesterday I listened to you and thought that I was listening to a minister, who I do not know in which country is the minister of the farmers, and how wonderfully you have done it, I would remind you of the history, that for your days - and this is a burden on the entire government and not on you personally - you have increased VAT for all agricultural supplies from 13% to 23%. You've given birth to the rural world. You increased the tax advance to 100%. You abolished the oil allowance. This oil allowance, breathtaking for the rural world, you abolished it. In addition, you have imposed the wine tax and taxed the subsidies. But that's not all. Just the day before, it took two hundred twenty pages and a hundred and twenty three articles by Mr. Katrugalos to describe the novel of SYRIZA's deception. It is the novel, ladies and gentlemen, through which you describe how 12 000 euros are tax-free too - and it concerns farmers - and how the tenth annual pension is ultimately reduced for all from 10% to 30%. And in here, ladies and gentlemen, since we are talking about farmers - it is included in the country's agricultural world, which has not yet learned it, the extermination levy of 27.2%! What do you have to say about this, Minister? You're going to sit down? Because the National Representation will not have the opportunity to see you until Mr Katrugalos' bill comes in and your position is critical, will you accept this extermination levy of 27.2% on farmers' income? If you want, answer. That's your right. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We are, however, telling you that these measures are both unfair and unnecessarily. These measures are on the knees of the rural world and, in fact, the bill, which you have brought, does not solve the problem. On the contrary, with the individual provisions, it creates additional problems and makes the whole situation difficult. Today, as we know, in the context of social policy, form A21, which gives family allowances - our own creation - of the previous government - you inherited it. The budget was EUR 755 million a year. You then criticised me for crumbs and yet it was an innovation within the framework of the budgetary difficulty to satisfy five hundred thousand families - that is what we have been able to collect - householded. Furthermore, for the first time, we gave the first and second child a family allowance - it was not in the history of the Greek state - and indeed it was the only financial indicator in the previous government, which went up, because there were adjustments to everyone else. And today - everyone hearing this, although they already know it - you have tabled it as low as 50% of the social state of EUR 755 million in the A21 that we have handed you over. And along with the social state it is well known that you have failed your promise of the 2 billion, which you made 200 million for the humanitarian crisis, and finally it became EUR 106 million when we made EUR 450 million for the social dividend. Also known is something that provokes all Greeks. If I am not mistaken, yesterday, in information you gave to the public - what the President of the New Democracy said to you from a step-by-step Parliament, and we tell you all - 'Start the state'. Greece is not a clear vine”. It has proved to be a Member's question that the expenditure on the occupation of TRAINOSE at company level and tax will ultimately be paid by farmers, pensioners, workers - it is EUR 3 million so far! And you stay tied up with your hands, stay simple viewers, in a work that seems to be impossible to conduct politics. You're nonexistent. You're not working properly. You've done a lot of bad things in the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u213	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Let's move on to the list. There is going to be a turnout for the MPs. Mr. Selchas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u214	Can you tell us the order of speakers, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u215	Look, you have the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u216	Who's next?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u217	You guys will talk right after that. I didn't want to put you right after Mr. Brutsi. Here, Mr. Selcha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming today to talk about agricultural production, which is a '1' issue in our country. There we have our comparative advantage, as in tourism, but even more agriculture directly relates to the survival of a people regardless of the global economic situation. Above all, in times of instability, such as the one we are experiencing, where trade and other alliances are being shaken, agricultural production, livestock and fisheries are a key factor of stability, especially for a country like ours. Consequently, the bill for cooperatives is one of the most important ones in this legislative period. He comes to put the many cooperatives on a new basis and give them the opportunity to become valuable tools in the hands of farmers. Most of all, however, it comes to confront pathogens of years that brought the cooperative movement into complete disrepute. Those responsible for this downhill are the ones who rabiesly resist in this bill in the name of independence allegedly of the trade union movement. The truth is, however, that independence probably means their immunity to break the Community's funds. The right thing to do is, however, to be subject to judicial investigation and not to political controversy. That is why I will concentrate on the substance of the agricultural issue and how this is affected by the bill. According to EUROSTAT, the rural world, especially in our country, tends to be more and more old. 53% of farmers of rural land are over fifty years old, a figure that in our country is even larger. In an increasingly competitive environment, the dynamism and ease of adopting new technologies by farmers play a major role. The rural world, therefore, needs age renewal. The bill I believe helps towards renewal. Integration into cooperatives and people who do not possess agricultural land but are engaged in the agricultural sector is a way of renewing. Also, the equal shares regardless of the land and volume of production statistically favour young people, and this is a proper prediction of the legislator. The obligation to give all production, 80%, to the cooperative is a positive measure of the law, which illuminates the substance of the cooperative. In the face of the 'different and reigning' of intermediaries, the 'power in the union' of producers must enter. In short, we are once again giving back the power and the responsibility stemming from this dynamics to the simple producer. We give the tools, we open the way. From there on, it is a question of the producers themselves to draw up the new course. However, as a state, we must also supply new arms-fired cooperatives. Simplification of the co-operative process, which brings the bill, is a first step, but there is still a lot to be done. It is a question of simplifying the services of the Ministry to producers. It is a question of making use of European funding. The producers' training services, provided for in the bill, should not remain a wish, but become a simple and pleasant Internet access platform to everyone. We must move at high speed and with absolute transparency. The commercial presence of a producer cooperative must be modernised. That is where most European funds must be directed with a clear tendency to extrovert. This will be the way to gain our true negotiating power, as a country, at all levels. In order to make the extroversion, we need the productive cooperative organisation, need infrastructure, which in many cases exist, but we also need modern commercial tools. The Internet and foreign languages are tools held by young people, even in the province. Such people must have an active role in cooperatives. The examples of a successful commercial policy exist and it is important that all cooperatives imitate them. I will mention the example of the milk ATMs, which give direct contact by a producer-consumer, reducing costs and removing power from intermediaries. To help producers, through the Ministry, move towards such innovative moves. Our country has been at the heart of an economic war and has to think strategically to escape. The adoption of cooperative culture and a new way of working the rural world is one of the key elements that will lead our country to stand on its feet again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr. Constantine Selca from SYRIZA. Mr Ioannis Antoniadis, Member of the New Democracy, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Before developing the amendment which I tabled and which is very important, Minister, I would like to tell you that on Florina and in general where there are farmers, there is a huge disaster, a Armageddon! Companies don't get milk from small producers, and their biggest producers are blackmailing them and they've downloaded the price from 40 minutes to 31 minutes. Minister, I would ask you to answer what you have done and what you intend to do. We must take drastic measures and we are here to support you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u221	Let's get back to Dodone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u222	Don't be provocative. That's a big problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Barca, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u224	Do you want anything, Mr. Comrade? Today we are all here farmers. Leave the parties. These parties took us where they took us. Minister, these are today and over the last few weeks. You have a powerful control mechanism. You see that companies import foreign milk, 70% foreign and 30% Greek and they Greekize it. We go to the supermarket shelves and, when they have the conscientiousness to actually write that they are from European Union countries, you want a special magnifying lens to read it. I would like to ask you: are there any checks on shelves? Are import controls being carried out? Company checks are being carried out. We tell you - and let us vote together - to bring the fresh milk back to the five days. Help producers, farmers. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament - you know that much better than I do - the indication of the country of origin or the place of origin of a food should in any case be provided for, etc. It's all clear. What is lacking is the will. People are being destroyed. It's on the brink of crisis, and I'd say suicide too, we can't go back to our area. We need measures to be taken. We must, please, very much - I will come back every twenty days with a question - find a solution. He can't get through to the finest letters. Today it's cow's milk and tomorrow it's sheep's milk. I do not want to develop this issue any more. I continue with another subject, with the amendment that I have tabled. Thousands of producers, due to the frost of March and this year and last year, are in despair because they have been destroyed. They're finally wondering why if they have to pay, when they're not compensated. We all know that there is a high cost of production: high prices in oil, fertilizers, pesticides. You add an increase in insurance contributions and taxation. At least let them take the payroll. Mr Minister, I am sorry that you did not accept the amendment we tabled. In fact, the amendment says that we should add the word 'leafballers' to enable these people to be paid. You said you needed documentation and that the ELGA, yes, wants and recognises the damage, but it cannot be provided because of the regulation, which is the case. The documentation is sufficient, Minister, and the regulation does not have to be changed. With this specific amendment, I think they can be paid. I refer to Article 71 of Law 4235/2014. We are talking about nutmeg - very briefly I mention it - and we are talking about compensation for affected producers. There were reactions on the part of the olive growers, due to the high premium, already resulting from a proportionate study and due to the phenomenon of parentheses in olive trees, etc. The removal of olive trees from the provisions of Article 71 was requested as a result of infertility and a reduction in premiums. We therefore propose, with this amendment, that the word 'leavings' be added after the words 'expected production', so that the crops covered are specific. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, these people are giving a fight in the countryside every day against the natural elements. The problems are multiple. Finally, a solution must be found. If you consider that this amendment does not give a solution, bring another amendment of your own, we should all vote together to get compensation. One is that. The second - which is of major importance - is the issue of milk. Take, finally, measures. You find me and graciously fail to solve the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u225	Thank you Mr Ioannis Antoniadis, Member of the New Democracy. The parliamentary representative of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotaros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to legislate and correct, as the coup d'état says, the bad texts of agricultural cooperatives. Before I begin, however, I would like to comment on the previous speaker from New Democracy, who has focused on the great problem of cow farmers, cow farmers, in our home country, with the various legislations and amendments in recent years, which, in essence, dismantle this sector and enable poorly imported milk, dubious quality, to come to our home country. Let me remind him that this whole story began in 2014, when the neo-democratic Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, released and extended first on the days of fresh milk from five to seven. And now the new government of SYRIZA is preparing to prolong milk - to drink a 'loving' called fresh milk 11 days - and enables all over Europe to pass on what it wants to us. I'll come back to this a little later. I would like, before I begin, to refer to the real idea of the State Secretary for National Defence, Mr Vitsa, who also proposed a refugee passport. Because some of the tens of thousands of illegal immigrants who have been locked in our homeland will probably have been in refugee passports for a long time, so that they can handle all their jobs very easily and comfortably. Unlike the millions of tourists who want to come to our home country from different countries on earth and leave their money in our national economy, which the Greek state does not give them a visa or, because of bureaucracy, do not take a visa and, of course, go to other competitive countries. In this bill you think you are doing - as you say - the right thing to do. However, this bill is based on poor old foundations, complex arrangements and does not correct any distortions affecting agricultural cooperatives. Instead, it enhances them and dismantles the already successful - those who are - agricultural cooperatives. Your new strategic design is incorrect. You are not a solution to the years, really problems of agricultural cooperatives. What about the inability to run decades now, which seem to remain unmistakable? What about the impunity of governors, who have now for decades been partying to the detriment of the rest of the farmers? What about bank robbery interest rates, which even now lend farmers? Let's see what happened earlier with the Agricultural Fund, which you did - you didn't even sell out - in Piraeus. Piraeus also continues this policy. What about the delay in the payments of farmers, who were often forced to sell their products using another method, cheaper, in order to have cash, why did they not have money to move? Minister, you mentioned to the committee that only twenty cooperatives, of the hundreds that exist, are successful four of which are so-called forced cooperatives - there are no others - which, in Article 32, you want to dismantle them on the substance. We will also refer to the change that you have made and brought today, just now. Did you really do the self-evident thing? Since you want to make a bill for agricultural cooperatives and correct the bad texts, have you addressed these twenty-successful cooperatives, four of which are the forced cooperatives, ask them how you manage and are successful, are you right, are you profitable? To do this so that throughout our entire country, from Evros to Crete, from Corfu to Kastelorizo, we have successful agricultural cooperatives. No, you didn't. On the contrary, for agricultural cooperatives, a huge problem arises. Because in the forced cooperative, which exists in Samos, three of the thousands of farmers, who are members of the cooperative, wanted to have a separate policy of their own. And because they were your friends, your acquaintances, your members, your executives or anything else, you did what you did. And because you have already understood your mistake, you are bringing this correction to Article 32, which of course says nothing at all. Everyone's against this bill. Not a single body is in favour. The opposition of all of them - and of the good and bad - should concern you. The bad people, to understand why they do not accept it, to see that they are the distortions and you should correct them. And the right and healthy cooperatives to listen to what they tell you. You are changing the cooperative principles by abolishing the self-employed, by removing the right of members of parliament to reinstate candidates, by not passing the bill from the Committee, as a cooperative undertaking, by not having the rights involved in agricultural cooperatives but by breaching the principle of equality between men and women, by abolishing geographical restrictions such as Article 2 for women's cooperatives, where there are some legislation which should be applied in general, regardless of whether they are women or men, with Article 4 by numerical restriction, which everyone says should be even smaller, with Article 32 for forced cooperatives. Indeed, because some of your people in Samos wanted to have appealed to the European Courts and have not made a final decision, you have brought this change and you say that if there is a final decision by a European court or other court, only then the compelling cooperatives will be dissolved. This is not a matter of legislation, which means that you should take this back and when a decision comes out - because so far all the decisions are in favour of forced cooperatives - then automatically clear and, since there is a judicial decision, you should change it or fight for it. Because there are such cooperatives throughout Europe, such as Porto wines, Madeira wines. And you should have forced cooperatives to increase them throughout the territory, where there are products of designation of origin, geographical origin or other, in order to support them against the throat of the imported, against the throat of Hellenism and everything else. For Article 43, which has been repealed, I would just like to comment on your concern that you have gone to put an end to amateur fishermen, who are hundreds of thousands. People make their hobby and this hobby, you know, it leaves a lot of money in local communities, especially during the summer months, where people go and attend or have a small holiday home. But you're going to tax everything, like what they come with and we're going to talk about a little later. For Rule 45, on zoo-friendly issues, which cannot even make one end out, our rapporteur said yesterday, Mr Shahinides, that there are some issues. With the beasts of northern Europe, who also have official parties, and there are also official spaces to exercise their appetites, are you doing something? Oh, no. Really, what are you doing for them? Because we also know the tastes of the Asians, which for their societies dogs and cats are a gourmet. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. President, please, a little quiet. I'm talking to you, and it sounds like a dip.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u227	Please, if you're kind, just quiet in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u228	Thank you. [[Here the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Evangelos Apostolos presents in the minutes the above mentioned legislative improvements to the explanatory statement, which read as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 204-216]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] For the tastes of various Asians there have been too many cases. And really, the progressives, the philosophers and others, what do they have to say about the sympathetic illegal immigrants who eat them? Did you hear what happened in Lesvos yesterday? There was an evacuation of some space and a dead dog was found inside of a illegal immigrant tent. Really what did that dead dog want? They wanted to make a quick Easter before the Christian Easter had him beaten up. Munga, word, you passed it blind! Imagine this had happened somewhere in a Greek who might have also declared a golden man, the stones would have risen. But that's what happens. The general policy of the governments of this country and of pre-memorandums, but especially after the memoranda, is a policy which is hostile to and trying to dismantle primary production in any way, particularly in the agricultural sector, with all the measures you have taken. It is enough to see the statistics from the day we entered the European Union so far and you will understand it. Look at the sale of quotas in particular in the previous years, for a few crumbs, such as in the case of the Greek Sugar Industry, where for 80 million euros, if I am not mistaken, you have sold out at the Government of New Democracy 50% of the sugar quotas, when all the others, were organized and developed. Sugar is a stock-exchange product, which in particular in the last decade has risen globally, except in Greece, where we have constantly been suffocating. Delete the name of the feta. I have just heard the spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsarakis, who, as Minister of State for the coexistence of New Democracy and PASOK, gave the feta to the Canadians, so that they can produce feta and sell it to the whole world outside the European Union. That is to say, a huge market of billions of people competing with the Greek product with the exact feta - because it has specific quality characteristics - and we must compete with the various spreadings of the various across the earth at the expense of the name of Greek feta. We see that some efforts are being made in agreements which are now coming, whether we can get away with South Africa, and whether we can get away with it with America. The Minister has said, in a question of our own, but also of other Members, that there is an attempt to change this agreement with Canada. But you are also preparing to sign the TTIP agreement, which, if signed, will be the death sentence of the primary sector, because that is where things are completely changed. All you achieve with this agreement - which you will, unfortunately, sign, because you do not have the courage to resist - is the strengthening of multinational companies, taking on a role of a state in a state, after giving them the right to intervene in state law if their interests are affected. The principle of the immunity mechanism, which they actually acquire, is to grant companies the right to sue the governments and their respective governmental bodies of a country which has legal or regulatory provisions which are contrary to corporate profits. For example, a country's bans on genetically modified foods are in line with the cooperation, restriction of trade that is impacting corporate profits. The actions will also be tried by the respective company courts. We are talking about the total destruction of the primary sector not only of Greece but also of the whole of Europe. We saw what happened with cow's milk. The New Democracy's friend-in-law spoke just now and rightly said some things. Of course New Democracy brought this in 2004 with the Hatzidakis Act, which was loyal to the OECD toolbox, extended from five to seven days and SYRIZA has even reached it by eleven days. We are getting poor milk from Romania and elsewhere, at the same time that a year ago in Romania had broken out a Romanian milk scandal, with the carcinogenic substance aflatoxin, which was found both in Serbia and elsewhere, and what happened? Artificially in the case of Serbia, which you know there is no control because there is no milk everywhere and ends up in our shelves as milk in general and indefinitely European Union and not only. There is no control system in our country for imported milk. In other words, the deliveries of milk to the dairy industry and the processing plants are not linked to customs and are somewhere lost between the six hundred thousand tons of cow milk produced by our country and the one million to three thousand tons of real production. There are some seven hundred thousand tonnes, which are generally and vaguely found and are not controlled anywhere. We have the graceful shot in Greek yoghurt by Mr. Apostolos by decoupling the raw milk as a prerequisite for the preparation of Greek yoghurt, which is a very powerful brand name in Greek yoghurt. For those who do not know, the Greek yoghurt is different from yoghurt, the yoghurt they sell in England and elsewhere. They all went and wanted Greek yogurt. Now with what you will do, it may be sold Greek yoghurt but it will not be Greek raw milk, it will be with milk powder or anything else. It may increase the profits of some industries but not of the producers. All this with the joint ministerial decision in Article 82 to amend the Code of Food brought by this government. Why? Because that's what the OECD toolbox says. Minister, we would like a response here to the rights of vineyards. We were sent here now "fresh" your decision - I have it here - of March 22, 2016, where you say "in application of the laws". It is the FEK of February 2016, where you say that anyone who does not root out the vineyards that are not there registered will have strict fines. A fewer fines would pay if he had a hassomary, than if he had vineyards. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If I may, Mr President, I shall also use my dentistry and not speak again. You should have imposed rules so that in some way these vineyards are legalised, that a rule should be introduced, without being lifted. It is disgraceful to have something blessed from the Greek land, at the same time as you have placed special duties, fees, contributions to Greek wine, while the imported is coming obscene, without fees, with nothing. Ice-creams come in dehydrated, create some wicked people here for their personal gain and at the same time Greek producers of unique varieties, who cannot be replicated abroad, cannot be allowed to obtain rights. See who gets the rights, even those few that came out this year. They are well-known at the expense of the simple producers. Otherwise, you're a left-wing government, you're against big producers, big owners, and everything else. I return to Greek yoghurt, to understand who is interesting and who is not. Today’s front page of the newspaper “EMPROS” is: “They are making the Greek yogurt dust.” When others do it awkward, the second official newspaper of the Golden Dawn has it headlines. I say it to see who cares about farmers and who do not. As for the neo-democrat friends, who are now complaining, I would like to say that you voted together all the previous memorandums, the OECD toolboxes, and this memorandum that said everything literally, words, and you are not entitled to protest now and take your tail out. Any government that wants to produce a national project should achieve self-sufficiency in all branches of national primary production, self-sufficiency which is a prerequisite for the survival and development of a state and a nation. It should therefore be a primary obligation of the government in question, although and since she loves her people and is national and independent, to set as a strategic objective the full coverage of national needs from domestic primary production and to form an institutional framework, which provides all the guarantees and incentives and conditions that Greek farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen, can secondlessly deal with their objects and produce, free of the European Union's commitments, cheques and native restrictions, which are, day after day, becoming more and more strangled in the primary sector. The main bodies directly connecting agricultural production to the market and the consumer do not become rural cooperatives in local communities. That is why we are voting against this bill and at the end during the vote, we will also tell you about the amendments, which we also consider to be unacceptable to a bill for dozens of amendments. If they are irrelevant or relevant, it does not matter. Since they were relevant, as an organised state, as an organised government, enter them in this bill. But not the unreasonable amendments. You also said the same thing and supported it, Mr Minister, and not what you said yesterday that it is the right of the Members and the parties. We know it's right, but not to humiliate it. That is why we will vote against most of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u231	Because the legislative improvements have necessarily brought improvements to the explanatory statement, I would like to present them to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, because there was a nominal reference from the previous Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn in the European Union-Canada agreement, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Mitaris has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u234	I would like to point out that, for the first time in the CETTA Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada, the European Union has managed to convince a country under the Anglo-Saxon law to accept the products of Europe's designation of origin as a legal authority and in particular to make the Greek feta in the agreement name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Metaraki, first of all, when this agreement was made, you blamed the co-rapporteur, Mr. Tsautaris, and Mr. Tsavritaris, on you. These writings exist and they say so. Secondly, those responsible for the feta producers have asked you not to negotiate, because you will do so - as you did - and let them go to the courts, as they went and won in Bulgaria, Turkey and elsewhere. Now you are committing them to the agreement you have signed. This was done, Mr Mitarakis, in this particular case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u239	Please don't go on. It doesn't make any sense for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u240	I cannot leave it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u241	Tell your parliamentary representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, I speak very soon. I never hold the microphone. There was no question, and the responsibility for the negotiation was at the Ministry of Development. So there was no transfer of responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u243	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u244	Secondly, the farmers who won trials were only in countries where the agreement already existed. If there were no such agreement with Canada, farmers would have no chance of resorting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u245	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u246	I would like to say one final word, Mr President,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u247	Please don't go on with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u248	For seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u249	Here, you have the floor for seconds too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Metarakis, I repeat: The persons responsible, the feta producers, have asked you, if it is necessary to sign this agreement, not to sign it at all, so that they may resort themselves to the courts. You didn't do that either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u251	Good. Mr. Antony Balomeni has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today's anniversary and, if you like, on the occasion of what the previous parliamentary representative said, I just want to make a brief comment. Of course no one expected from this wing, from the Golden Dawn party, some kind of criticism during this period. But we must remember that populism, the balance of values and institutions and, above all, intolerance has aroused dictatorship. That is what I wanted to say in knowledge and not to be repeated. Since the debate I have been struck, in fact, that the major parties of the once-to-one-party society and their representatives have not recognised any part of the responsibility for the situation in which the cooperative movement is found. Many speakers have described the situation as tragic enough. What I wanted to say is that we have not come here as recorders, as journalists, but we have come to eliminate these phenomena, correct what is being saved and, above all, prevent their repetition. We came to create a new environment, an environment of confidence and creativity. The draft law that we are going to vote on, contains and gives this possibility. It contains provisions that are cleared by rapid and reliable procedures and with transparency, abnormal situations that we all know and, in particular, provisions that aim to prevent their repetition. For the first time in the younger Greece, it is attempting to create a generalised legal framework allowing small producers to set up and operate a farm in entrepreneurship terms and this is in the spirit of cooperation and the social economy. In this latter sense, you will allow me to refer very briefly to the still-determined concept of the social economy, which, in other countries and continents, has become the subject of greater processing and exporting important political and economic conclusions. I belong to those who avoid identifying the social and solidarity economy as the alternative political solution to capitalism. I think it is more of a form of resistance at first and as an attempt to introduce new regulations in the field of production, which cannot, of course, be the overall response to the system of economic competition between unequal parties, nor an overall programme of substitution or transition to another type of organization of the economy and society. The social economy, however, contains many forms of productive partnership, which create considerable potential. They are the cultural forms of organization of production, a premise of individual and collective autonomy, an opportunity to humanize and democraticise the economy. The social economy leaves space for creativity, forging, forcing democratic sensitivity and for the open horizons of each project. Another point I would like to raise is that opposition is being criticised, because state intervention is excessive. It is, in fact, interesting to discuss how much interventionism is tolerated or necessary. We must, however, look at the matter with regard to the current situation. Who will deny that part of the defiance of agricultural cooperatives is due to the absence of effective state supervision? Perhaps many of the economic crimes, which at this time are now accounted for by dozens of former vicious officials, were avoided. Of course, the monitoring body, the Agricultural Bank, should also be well-sold. The previous speakers have said so. Cooperative surveillance is a constitutional obligation. The level of supervision really depends on the circumstances. Our assessment is that in the present abnormal conditions, if there is no strict supervision, we will not be able to exalt the space. The situation imposes tight supervision above all by cooperative farmers. This is achieved both through the supervisory boards that are created and by the supervisory mechanisms that are required to operate in an uninterrupted and efficient manner. Perhaps, in the future, when agricultural cooperatives of a new type have been launched, supervision will need to be mitigated for the sake of autonomy. Now, however, it is a necessary condition for not repeating the phenomena of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr Balomenakis, MP of SYRIZA. Mr George Karasmanis, Member of the New Democracy, then Mr Papadopoulos, has the floor. Here, Mr. Karasmanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Apostolos every time my turn comes to speak on agricultural matters, he leaves. In any case, what I am going to say is to say and read it from the Minutes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, when I first read the bill, the first thing I did, was to look at the calendar, to make sure that we live in 2016 and not thirty years back, in the early 1980s, because the letter and the spirit of the bill literally refer to the previous century, in times of unspeakable memory, where state interventionism, favorableism, nepotism and the colonialism were synonymous with the concept of agricultural cooperatives in the minds of some "savourists" of the cooperative movement. Is this unconstitutional old-fashioned hay? This product of stitching old, failed and off-site laws? No, of course not. Can the House, by making the cooperatives' statutes, deal with how many crosses should enter, how should the names of the candidates be written on the list, whether at least one woman should enter the ballot and the administration? And if someone doesn't want to, what are we gonna do? We're gonna arrest her, we're gonna run her as a candidate? Is it possible to bring a bill here that provides that a successful president will throw him out of the third election and deny us the opportunity to continue a successful term? If you want to hit the old rule, the transaction, the continuous economic redistribution of office - according to the interests of the "masters" - which is one of the main causes of overcompensation, unreliability and the complacent situations that the cooperative movement has experienced - make a separate ballot so that the president can be elected with fifty plus one vote, directly from the members who so have responsibility! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see the development and tax incentives anywhere. I don't see anywhere the association's interconnection with the other professional and scientific bodies. I see nothing that stimulates the young and the old farmer to join forces in a productive reconstruction and development of advanced commercial activities. You are going to low tone - I would say - the producer groups to which the European Union attaches particular importance. That is why our government, through the new Rural Development Programme, has shaped a special measure of 27m euros for the establishment and operation of cooperative schemes, namely producer groups and associations of producer groups, covering 100% of the costs of setting up them, so that our producers can jointly meet the challenges of the market and strengthen their negotiating power. These are the things that are being asked today, ladies and gentlemen, and on these crucial issues in the draft legislation under discussion, we see and hear nothing but 'violence in the tomb'. Only interesting how we control the cooperative administrations, how we continue the vendetta with PASPEGES, how we set up other state agencies and companies, and finally how we make our party clientele. But, ladies and gentlemen, what is worth pointing out is that this bill is perhaps a very historic event for Parliament! Over twenty-five bodies were invited to the committee responsible. Not one - I stress - of them didn't say a good word. It's never happened before. As if they were all informed. Not even a brother? Look at you - and a representative of the committee clearly told you - the cooperatives in our country to work properly, do not need cooperative law. A law can't build the cooperative organization that the place needs. But it can destroy her. So what is required is a framework law with only two articles. Article 1 The cooperatives are made by farmers and operate on the basis of their statutes. Their supervision will always be based on existing laws, commercial, tax, administrative. The second and final article. It will set out the incentives to be provided by the State to support and assist the operation of rural cooperative organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by mentioning an issue which literally burns thousands of apple growers. These people and their families have come to despair. Because the great damage suffered by the frost on March 26 and 27, when the dance of the irrationality begins. ELGA - pay attention - recognizes the damage but not the cause, which is attributed to other adverse weather conditions. Is anyone going crazy or not? But, Minister, there is a solution. It's article 71 of the n. 4235, which was voted on in February 2014 by my own amendment, and indeed by all the parties - and by your own - which covers the acarp, the fruits from whatever reason. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Why don't you apply it? If the reason is the high cost of the insurance premium, and here there's a solution. The amendment tabled by Mr Florina, Mr Giannis Antoniadis, is one of you. See it again, Minister, and I expect your position on this subject, which I repeat burns thousands of our growers. Let me remind you even - and I close - that, in my own country, in order to compensate for the economic losses of farmers and farmers from adverse climatic phenomena and animal or plant diseases, we have created a special measure in the context of the new rural development programme to support and ensure the safety of agricultural production. The measure started with a budget of 10 million and we had the assurance from the Commission that after a thorough study, the budget would amount to 200 million. But you have abolished this measure. We put 45 million in the same programme for investments in anti-hairy and anti-Brazil protection. Producers participating in this measure will be supported at exceptional rates, 80% for individual producers and 100% for producer groups. Do you know why we fought these battles that we won? Because it is our belief that the farmer and the farmer must remain in the countryside and, in order to stay on the countryside, we must ensure that he is produced, income, that is, his own survival. Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr. Georgios Karasmani. Mr Nikolaos Papadopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Partnership. Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. What happiness to go to Stepma after such a speech! He was the Minister, who on the eve of elections gave tribute to his region to be elected MP! For Christ's sake! Hi, I'm glad to meet you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What did you tell us here New Democracy and PASOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u257	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u258	What did they say? We've been told that we're intervening in their operation. They talked about partisanism, statism - I noted it here - and they mentioned examples too much. They're accusing us of being convicted by the people who were tied, hugged by this whole system. Colleagues, speak first in the mirror and address yourself. Don't address them to us. We don't chew anything like that. Second, you're here talking about forced cooperatives. Are you talking about forced? Does your president know you're supporting forced cooperatives? If you support it, make a suggestion for everyone to become compelled. Don't come by the next door. Clear words, colleagues. Not such tricks to us. If we did the cooperative, you'd say we're doing cologne. Where's this story going with you? Stabilize and make a constructive opposition to move forward. Thirdly, the electoral law. Look what's bothering you here now. That is the essence of the matter. He was majority, and what did you do? Where New Democracy had powers, it had an absolute majority, where the county was PASOK had PASOK and you went out and you shared the pie. You arrive at the PASPEGIES and you couldn't share it. You two are interconnected. That's what you want to do. We're the one that's meant to ruin your soup, get other forces inside. This is the big change brought about by the cooperative law. Put it right in your mind. 1/3 means that the cooperatives will be democratic and there will be in and the minority that has a say. The minority you had died. Tell me the power connection to the PASPEGES. You're talking about cooperatives. Which cooperatives have closed down? What did he want to do with Mitsotakis' system? Karditsa's closed. The Thessaloniki Federation closed down with three tomato plants, manufacturing industries. The sugar factories, the largest processing industry. Do you remember the U.S.H.S.D.? Colleagues, do you remember her? I'm sure you don't know what the original SPCs mean. Why did you close the DCI? Because the FDA has done what we want to do now. The CCCTB wanted to have a product concentration so that the farmer could get a price. Because if there's no sufficient product concentration, you can't negotiate. There's the milk. Here's the 'DON'. What are you coming to tell us here? That we have a free market. If you want in another regime, it's different. You believe in the free market. What do we have to do? Should we price milk? Why did we give 'DON'? Why did we give the whole thing? Why, why, why? That's what we're paying now. I'm so sorry. What do we want to do about this story? Firstly, with the cooperatives, we want the producer to concentrate his product to have power. Look, the CFP is going to decrease the farmers' income every year. This has to be completed. Where will it be filled from? State aid is not granted. So the farmer needs to get it out of the market. To get it out of the market, to negotiate, it has to have power, it has volume. No matter how big a producer I am, no matter how powerful I am, if I don't have a pooled mass, I can't negotiate. That's why I brought the example of the U.S.S.S.S.A. The CCTB is the Central Home Production Management Agency. What did the U.S.S.A. do? He was picking up all the products, and whoever wanted to buy wheat and barley, he went through the counter. There was a negotiation. The contractual agriculture that we are talking about is the negotiation of two parties. Symbolic agriculture was the sugar industry, which said: 'The price is so much. If you don't want to, come on spiral." Symbolic agriculture is not what is now done with the banks it says: 'Come if you want. This is it.’ Symbolic agriculture are two trading parties. But when the producer is alone, he has no power. That's why we want cooperatives and we want 80% of production - and I would prefer 100% - to move through the cooperatives to have power so that the farmer can take his trouble. Without the farmers' trouble, prices cannot be gathered under any circumstances. The market is merciless. The examples are too much. So our power is in unity, and the rural movement will embrace it. Of course the Left's powers on this - as was the political situation in the co-operatives with the majority - were outside. We have ruined the soup that we put in the 1/3 and we will make them democratic. No more majorities. Everyone's going into democratic function. Hello, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. Mr Karasmanis has asked for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, Mr Papadopoulos obviously does not know the anthropogeography of the county. I am elected ten times as the first MP in Pella. I had no need of any subsidy. The subsidies granted have been granted in a legal, transparent and crystalline manner, with the approval, boulder and the European Commission's seal. If he goes back to the Ministry's website, he'll see ten announcements. I fought the European Commission for six months and managed to ensure that subsidies were granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr. Karasmani. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-eight students and apprentices and four educational attendants from the 25th Municipal School of Volos and from the Municipal School of Tower Trimary Messinia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative for Democratic Incorporation, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to tackle the problems of the rural world, we must set up a framework of principles and policies with clear objectives and clear priorities, which responds to the current reality, to formulate a coherent and, at the same time, realistic plan that will relive the production process and the economy. What's going on? Without a plan, without vision and reforms and, above all, without real dialogue with the social and productive actors in the country, with citizens and parties, problems are not addressed. It has already been 15 months, and the government has not presented a national productive reconstruction plan, a project specialising in the sectors of agriculture policy. Is that all it was? Was it just a matter of the agricultural policy sector? On development issues Mr Stathakis has again committed himself in previous months to bringing the national development plan in March. The national development plan is looking for the country 15 months. Is the agricultural sector a priority? Is it or isn't it? What areas? From postponement to postponement, then, almost a year and a half, no plan with priorities and policy areas. The government continues to invest in delusionalists, who ultimately bring the adoption of economically ineffective and socially unjust measures and fragmentary policies, which lead to a shrinking of Greek agricultural production. The farmers right now, Minister, do not know if they can produce the next day. They are now in a tragic situation both for the country's overall economic situation and for the situation in the agricultural sector. We can't talk here like we don't understand reality. I heard your speech yesterday and there was nothing left for the farmer, the farmer, the farmer, to understand a visionary process, a reform of a sector, a goal. All you said is you're giving 650 million at the holidays. In other words, you have made a commitment to giving the European Union's money. What money? The money that is now six years old - that is, the six-year period that runs - is about EUR 19 billion and which was secured in the previous period, in 2013, by painful negotiations. And you said at the time that it wasn't enough. Now it's the only money, the only resources you want to use and you're supporting. What are farmers facing right now? With a number of tax and insurance charges. In particular, an increase in taxation from next year and gradually to 26%. The taxation of aid to 26% distorts Community competition. Aid cannot be more taxed in our country than in the other countries of the European Union. These are elements which the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Rural Development had to say in the negotiations and to negotiate on this basis. On average 5 billion out of the 19 billion in the next six years, will be taken back on the issue of taxation. Increase in tax advance by 100%. Let's go to the oil. You abolished the reimbursement of the excise duty on oil. The Democratic Compact had tabled an amendment to the agricultural diesel scheme in your own bill on the basis of acres and the type of cultivation. We have told you that after you have abolished the tax refund, you are introducing agricultural fuel oil what is happening in Germany. Let's do the corresponding thing here, on the basis of the OSCE declaration. We didn't say why you abolished it. We said that after you abolished it - because you have answered many times that all parties agreed to abolish the tax refund by means of the agreement, we did not say that - to introduce agricultural fuel oil. Even today you have not given a clear answer. Can I come to VAT on agricultural supplies? From 13% you agreed to its increase to 23%. 13% was the highest throughout the eurozone and is the highest in the eurozone. You are now taking it to 23%, at 24% now with the new change and the new burden on the tax rates that are being incurred, because of the inefficiency of the negotiation that we have before us. Indeed, today, in a question tabled by Mr Kegeroglu from the Democratic Integration, you have answered that your aim is to reduce the costs of agricultural supplies and to combat this excessive increase in production costs, reduce production costs, and so on. How will production cost be reduced? With 24% VAT? That's not how it works. Of course, for the OGA, we had cleared our proposal, which was to keep the three funds. You have proceeded with the proposal of a fund resulting in the abolition of the OGA. What you are proposing - and we told Mr Katrugalo in good time, when he informed us of the proposal to the lenders - is not going to be implemented. It'll take years, like all the experts say. It is therefore ineffective. As far as insurance is concerned, of course, we have expressed our deep disagreement with the way the government is currently dealing with the issue and transferring all the burdens to those who have not been retired and who are also moving towards increasing contributions. But do you know something about the issue that has arisen, Prime Minister? That is clearly what we in the Democratic Group are saying. We disagree with the pension cuts that you propose and we will vote against them. However, for those who are former Members of Parliament - and this is about the Greek Parliament - who have been retired or have established a pension right, the cuts that might be voted on for all the other current pensioners must apply. In this one we have to be clear about all the wings. All the wings need to be clear about something, so there's no specs that can be heard in the various discussions. Since the other parliamentary representatives are also in this regard, it would be very useful to put themselves on the table. Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Assent has an integrated programme for the agricultural sector with positions and alternatives. We have made clear proposals for linking research to agricultural production, for the operation of cooperative producer groups to achieve the economies of scale. We have taken the initiative for a dialogue conference with people of primary production. We have tabled fifteen proposals for dialogue aimed at reducing production costs. Let us say clearly that because the clergy are small in our country, collective forms of production organisation are essential. This is clear, at least for those of us who have been working on these things for years. What's the matter? The issue is that there have also been pathogens - and we have said them and the special speaker of the Democratic Association has said them clearly - in relation to how the cooperative movement has often worked in our country. But that is not the solution, and I will explain why this bill is not a solution, which you are bringing to the vote today. There are, of course, other issues which concern milk, yoghurt and many other issues. We have tabled relevant questions to you, Mr Apostleu, and we have asked you if you intend to bring a ministerial decision to free the life of milk. This will result in us having a lot of imports. You haven't answered us so far. At least today in your dentistry to say clearly. Will you release the milk life span, as it's said you've agreed? Of course, you have said many times and you too have said that it cannot continue to be so great that the opening of a price lid between producer and consumer is so great. To mention the characteristic example that the OECD report - which many have mentioned but probably not read - says that in milk the greatest problem is the high profit margins in retail chains, so that they are much higher than the European Union average. What are you doing as a government on all these matters? Why don't you reduce this opening price lane between producer and consumer? Why do you not manage to reduce this period of time but to increase? So, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of an overall plan for rural development, the operation of agricultural cooperatives should also be integrated. You, without a plan and without a programme, bring something that is explained in the explanatory statement, that it intends to reconstruct and reorganise cooperatives and strengthen every initiative based on the social economy and collectiveness. Do you really think this objective is achieved? Instead of discussing a bill with provisions that will strengthen the tax and development incentives for cooperatives and producer groups, we are faced with a piece of legislation without clear targeting, which is governed by a strong and clearly ineffective state of affairs, which strengthens bureaucracy and runs counter to some of its cooperative principles, Minister. And you know that we are well aware of cooperative principles, like those in force throughout the European Union. Also, the bill contains a number of provisions with an intervention mark. It is a step in the direction of both the autonomy and the free functioning of agricultural cooperatives and their economic freedoms. For example, Article 18 expressly states that the supervision and control of agricultural cooperatives will be exercised by a competent Directorate of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. We are obviously not opposed, Minister, to the control of legality. That needs to be cleared up. But we are opposed to proper control of their action. We do not understand how an address at the Ministry will inspect, help and control the work of all the agricultural cooperatives in the country, while also exercising feasibility control. It is clear that the government intends to maintain full control over the operation of cooperatives. In Article 18, therefore, the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament expresses strong concern about the constitutionality of the exercise of state control over the activities of agricultural cooperatives in general. What we are telling you is the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament. It's not just us. In particular, it is the regulation in Articles 22 and 23. A strict state control framework is introduced, whereas agricultural cooperatives, according to your prediction, are excluded from the processing and marketing activities. This is a regulation which is expected to increase the financial problems of the operating cooperatives. I would also like to refer to Rule 32, because you have made a legislative improvement. And because we want to make a constructive opposition, we tell you this. We told you our clear disagreement. In fact, in terms of this point and article - Article 32 - the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament is clear. You brought a legislative improvement, but it has a diagnosed 'or'. I'm talking about the article on forced cooperatives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a little more time. You say that it will be possible for them to be converted into agricultural cooperatives if they apply to the competent authority or after the adoption of an irrevocable judgment or for national legislation to be applied. What is this 'or' diagnosing, the phrase 'or to be implemented by national legislation'? So if something is voted on here in another piece of legislation, we're actually not going through regulation? The report of the Scientific Service of the Parliament, which I quote, says: "It is also noted that it is favoured in the event of a breach of the law of the European Union and of national law... this decision of the relevant Minister will be taken following the adoption of an irrevocable judgment of a competent court." To leave the '... or to be implemented by national legislation'. So since you make these changes, we, of course, have the good will to support this article. As you do in this case, however, it shows the intentions and the way you legislate. These are just some of the examples I wanted to mention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u264	If you are kind, Mr. Colleague, very soon, because we have exceeded the limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u265	I shall conclude, Mr President. To conclude, therefore, let me refer to the tendency to create unnecessary structures characterised by the bill, because they are obviously inappropriate and burdensome. The establishment of the Agricultural Partnership and Training Fund is another bureaucratic structure that is inconsistent with the cooperative authority on the basis of which the cooperatives provide education and practice to their members. We are not opposed to education, to the contrary, we say that this is not the right way to do it. The Ministry has the role of overseeing how education works and, of course, of setting the rules, not doing the same through a fund. Of course, the establishment of a Property, Aquaculture and Equipment Management Agency. One wonders what the establishment of such a fund will serve, because it is an instrument which can bring together properties and products of all kinds. As far as the research purposes are concerned, could they not be served by the ELGO - "DIMITA"? It is a question I imagine you will have to answer, because it is specific. This draft law therefore has no development perspective. The Greek countryside can and should provide productive support for a quality and competitive agri-food sector. The provisions of this draft law, for example, do not help towards strengthening agri-food partnerships. Someone would say they're probably undermining their role. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, does it aspire the proposed bill to change the cooperative landscape and much more to attract young people to the cooperative, rural process? Not only will this not be the case, but it will also drive many people out, and it will also lead to a reduction in the collective action of producers, because what we are completely opposed to is State interventionism, a lack of freedom of action as appropriate to the cooperative idea, as you said in the election when you were in the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u266	Thank you to Mr Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u269	Minister, have you asked for the floor for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u270	Just for a moment, Mr President, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u271	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u272	Because it is not a question of criticism, however acute it may be, but if criticism is accompanied by numerical inaccuracies, they must at some point be answered. Where did you get the conclusion that for the 19 billion-dollar CFP coming, the 5 million-dollar tax will be paid? Do you know that until now, up to 12 thousand euros of all aid is exempted, that is, until now, from 2.6 billion aid, 2.2 billion has been left outside and that only 400 million, which until now at least 13% have been taxed? Now, then, what we are bringing, by just putting the basic aid, that is 50% and less on the taxable material, do you know how much it corresponds to, because the basic aid shares the total and is over 700 000 farmers? Not two thousand euros to each farmer, when we at least 9,100 as duty-free have already been committed by the relevant negotiation. So where did you find this money to be taxed? So, in other words, the total amount of aid for the next time, since over 85% with 90% of farmers on the basis of the regulation we bring will not be taxed, all of them will not be taxed. Where did you get the numbers and throw them? Like also, where did you get the number that we fought for the new CAP and we managed it? It is 15% less than the previous CAP, and not only that, but you have made the mistake - I do not want to say the crime - that at the time you negotiated in 2012 to determine the amount, the GDP figures for 2008 and 2009 were used. What does the 2012 GDP have to do with 2008 and 2009? It was not much lower than GDP, which meant that we with less GDP would have potential for greater support? Tell the world and not throw them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u273	Ask the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u275	Just a minute, Mr. Theocharopoulos, and then we will move on, we will not stand any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u276	Look, really, I'm surprised that you seem weird, the facts are perfectly accurate. And to be clear, I start from the last thing you said, 19 billion has been guaranteed for the seven years that runs. It is 19 billion with the accession of countries within the European Union, with the growth of pie, that is, because of the accession of other countries to the European Union, which has actually resulted in an increase in the amount compared with the previous six years. There is not a single person right now in Europe, but I have not heard anyone in your government saying these 19 billions are very little. Here, if the parliamentarians consider that 19 billion for the agricultural sector over a six-year period is a little, you really disguise the members of the ruling party themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u277	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u278	And the Prime Minister himself was disproved, Minister, who came to your ministry and said about these 19 billions that it is his goal to make use of, because that is next year's money. With regard specifically to the issue of amounts, look, I was modest in forecasts and estimates, because what I told you is from 19 billion to 20 billion, without taking into account either the advance payment of taxes or the increase in contributions or other factors...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u279	Please don't expand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u280	Tell a farmer right now that his aid is not taken back to the year. I do not have the time to present the facts to you at the moment, but also to what I have submitted to you you, you have never answered the specific question. So the first of the aids in total, not only does the Ministry get it back at the moment through insurance and taxation, but it is actually much more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u281	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, just a minute, let me answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u283	Half the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u284	It is not possible to regard the advance tax as an additional tax. What approach is this? I don't understand. The advance tax is, of course, calculated then on the basis of the total tax levied. I don't understand that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u285	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u286	Second, please! - when we say that the share of the CAP is on the basis of GDP, we believe that the countries which have the lowest of GDP are being strengthened. Hey, that's not what you wanted! So what else can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u287	Good, Minister. The President of Parliament, Mr Nikos Voutsis, has asked for the floor. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u288	I don't want to talk about the bill. However, since I am not used to silence and feel obliged to speak, I would like to say in relation to Members' pensions. This morning we submitted a wreath to the monument of the militant Mustakli and there was a lady, a popular woman whose pensions have obviously been cut off, she has problems and others and she began to yell at me in front of everyone about Members' pensions. I saw it repeated here, abundant drinks - going through, to record ourselves as sympathetics - also the issue and to report beforehand. I should once again, and I would expect the parties that concern them even more, that everyone take their responsibilities directly and publicly against either incomplete information, perhaps, or in a gratuitous populism against politics. I do not have, and in general we do not have to defend some of the old Members of Parliament on a personal basis, to the extent that the Left, the Communist Party, the coalition in this regard and others, all the Members of Parliament before them ’12, those who live in life, men and women - to be well - have a minimum percentage, while the maximum percentage is from the other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u289	They weren't elected?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u290	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u291	They were elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u292	Now that hurt you? I stand up to support the MPs of the entire period...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u293	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u294	Please! Don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u295	Come on, stop it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u296	You don't understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u297	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u298	What don't you understand? Do you understand or don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u299	You don't understand what I'm asking!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u300	I stand up for your past and your path to post-military...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u301	You're doing a provocation!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u302	This advantage is all you, no one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Kegeroglu, please, let us continue. Mr President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u304	I'm really crucified by what I hear from Mr. Kegeroglu. Really! Because I stand up to defend his law - because the Minister of Labour also replied that in special cases these pensions by '12, they may not concern anyone within the Assembly or very few colleagues - this regime. So these colleagues, and our colleagues, all of our colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u305	All right, you fixed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u306	Oh, now I'll fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u307	You saved it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u308	Do I save it? What can I tell you? Sadly, however, it's left. I'm not going to go on because I'm also a president of the House. The pensions of these former Members have been reduced, and I repeat - as far as I am concerned, other parties are concerned, because then the people were right to elect those who were elected. I'm not separating myself. In order not to leave any suspicion, however, of either client or syndicate or of any other kind of defense to MPs, friends, companions, etc., that is why I made the distinction and perhaps not understood by Mr Kegeroglou. I'm closing the last thing there. The pensions of these people, the former Members, were therefore reduced by 40% - 60%. It is of the order of 900 or 1,100 euros up to 1,400, even for MPs who were twenty and twenty-two years and were several ministers in the previous phases. They are in contact with us through the regime and procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure for certain aids and through their club and pass through the Conference of Presidents in a perfectly legitimate, humanitarian, humane manner. It is incomprehensible now to write articles - I saw them on all the sites - that "they...", in general, "that, for forty years led the country where they led it, why now continue to have and not cut off what they get?". I repeat, we are talking about people seventy, eighty, ninety years old, who are left. What they get is about an allowance. We must be clear when we make this criticism of the political system and Members of Parliament. I repeat, everyone's pensions have fallen by 40% -60%. The House itself has stopped in ’12 this process. Afterwards the incompatibilities came, several of them had no profession and had left their professional funds ten, twenty years. They didn't have where the head of a bed was. I have to defend this provision of the insurance bill. I certainly believe that each party has its opinion. There are at least two and a half parties here that come out on this rhetoric and want to be reproduced through this rhetoric. They have every right, because the people are voting for them, but I am obliged to defend this situation against an anti-political, anti-parliamentary, non-parliamentary, with no evidence and if the facts are answered, they do not bother to cross-check them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u310	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u311	You don't have the floor, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Simorellis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I come from a purely rural area. And when I was asked "what you have this week", I said that we would be voting on the law on cooperatives. Honestly, they turned my back on me. Once they heard it, they really expressed their surprise. I hope that this law that we are bringing today will bring farmers back to the idea of a cooperative again. Today we are called upon to vote in the Greek Parliament on the bill for agricultural cooperatives and the forms of collective organisation of rural space. It is one of the most important legislations of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which aims to correct mistakes and failures of the past, creating a rebuilding space for the cooperative movement. Although the cooperative form of organization exists in Greece for more than a century, in recent years we have seen it lose its role with apparent responsibilities for bad policies of the past and other institutional frameworks. Cooperatives have a specific strategic objective. They are a means of organising the middle and low strata, based on Greek production and aiming at production and development. Unfortunately, the figures of recent years show that the situation in cooperatives is not what we would like to see. Of the six and a half thousand cooperatives, about 1/6 operates, while the rest are long inertia. In fact, only a small percentage of active cooperatives show good economic data. It is clear that the current situation results in a dismantling of the cooperative organisation in society. The functioning of healthy cooperatives is a prerequisite for the development of the primary production sector, so that we can move more quickly into the country's food self-sufficiency. This draft law creates the institutional framework and the favourable environment which will lead to the reconstruction of cooperatives in order to achieve these objectives. At this difficult time for the economy, the only way out of comitology and the bet that this government has to achieve is growth and productive reconstruction. The main objectives of the bill are to help small farmers survive in a very difficult economic environment, to organise and achieve lower production costs, better prices and easier promotion for their agricultural products, and by adopting common cultivation methods they will have the qualitative advantage. Reading the bill, we see clearly simplifying the composition of cooperatives, bypassing the well-known bureaucracy. The number of members required shall be reduced and the compulsory minimum cooperative capital shall be abolished. In addition, we see the strengthening of democratic procedures in the archaeology and control of members of the administration, which aim to prevent the dissolutions of the past. With the 'one member, one share, one vote', we are establishing equal and democratic participation, regardless of volume and production. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] With regard to the resolution of the existing situation in the cooperative area, we have the establishment of the National Register, the Audit Authority and the College of Inspectors at the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, as well as the legal amendments, legal provisions and mergers, solutions, leases and clearings. For the business development of the agricultural cooperative, other investors are also allowed to become members of the cooperative by establishing the optional share, without voting rights, as investment in the cooperative by third parties. It is important to establish the future sale contracts for agricultural products to protect their prices, which will provide cover and protection for the organised cooperatives, as well as the cooperative education of producers through the creation of the Cooperative Education Fund. In what I mentioned, many other positive regulations are added to which we will be able to talk for many hours. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from the Trikala Prefecture, which is an extremely rural area, and I see every day the difficulties that small and medium-sized farmers are going through. It is the current government's duty to support by every means all these social groups affected and who have paid for the economic crisis in recent years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The deposit of this bill was based on the need to exist and to develop the cooperative movement aimed at the country's productive reconstruction. We need to support this project mainly among young farmers who are trying to respond to the difficulties of times so that they do not give up production. Especially during the period when we have seen a structural crisis in the capitalist system, one of the responses that the Left gives is the social and solidarity economy. Agricultural cooperatives must become the form of development that will protect small and medium-sized farmers and agricultural products, governed by a social and democratic structure, with a public control function.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u313	Put a perfect one, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u314	The best way to survive and develop small and medium-sized farmers is to organise themselves in agricultural cooperatives, using the favourable environment provided by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, too. Mr. Barkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by apologise to the colleague of the New Democracy who I interrupted before, during his speech, when he referred to the milk issue. But I have to say that I was disturbed by his reference, because unfortunately the New Democracy Members, who were government, abstained from the procedures for refusing producers and from the local society for the sale of Dodonnis, a dairy cooperative that was a leader of milk. Within one night the New Democracy decided that it should be sold to foreigners. The situation as it was created brought the result to which this Member referred. In other words, we have the phenomenon of private milk-industrials, while the 'DOM' created those conditions for the price of milk to be at high levels, which could make producers' units viable, at present pouring milk into producers or getting it at a very low price, finding it as arguments various reasons. These producers are now trapped in such a process. I would therefore expect at least the self-criticism of the Members of the New Democracy and PASOK who then defended in collaboration with Piraeus Bank and Mr Salla this privatisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u317	Now you're government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u318	Of course! We know that very well. After all, three times we won elections. Of course you claim that elections will be held again. We'll see. I don't know what your role is in your party, but anyway. This bill is to streamline a process that PASOK and New Democracy have been defending for so many years. A full party cooperative logic, where producers were trapped in the cooperative administrations, which were party and therefore in the local states of every prefecture, so that they could not breathe, cannot claim to sell their products cooperatively and achieve the best price and production they want. This is the basic logic of this bill. Do you want us to agree that we could put on more articles? Sure. We will, however, agree that it also gives a prospect that young people, young cooperatives have a long-term logic and perception and do not have the phenomena of agricultural cooperatives that have been closed or are in liquidation and have been caught up in human beings, producers and workers in this process. After all, I have said from this Step forward that the only reaction that is heard by the Opposition listens to the name PASPEGES. We have to agree what PASPEGES is, how PASPEGES worked and what PASPEGES played.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u319	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u320	And because I see you agree you should agree to the logic that it cannot be the cooperative logic of the PASPEG that has been working for forty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u321	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u322	I hear various criticisms of the amendments made by Mr Brutsis, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Mr. Brutsis did not disagree with reason. He admitted that they are indeed time-consuming and were tabled in accordance with the logic of the Rules of Procedure of the House. What bothered him was the number. I must remind the Members of the New Democracy that they have had another worthy sense of the amendments. Amendments were tabled at 2:30 a.m. in unrelated bills, for reasonable reasons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, immediately. There have also been amendments which have a criminal time for bank administrations. You know very well what I'm talking about. To conclude, so as not to waste Members' time, I would like to say this: Our government wants to rationalise the cooperative movement. Our government wants to give the first reason and wants to give voice to the producers, as they are in the field every day. He wants and aims to favour not some who built political careers in claiming positions in cooperative administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u323	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-three students and apprentices and three educational sessions from the high school of Mandamandou Lesvos and from the high school of Vrises Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u324	They remembered - and it is right - that nine years have passed since the 1967 military coup. On behalf of the JRC, we say we need to remember, teach. We honor the fighters, those standing, unsolved, in detentions, in the tortures of the EBRD, in prisons and in exiles. Remember that the junta was supported by parts of the local pluralism and by the Americans and that the bourgeoisie and its state use such methods as to support its interests, even military, political, coups. Today, junta’s nostalgics try to raise head and Nazi criminal Gold Dawn spills fascist racist poison. The historical conclusions are therefore of great value. As far as parliamentary pensions are concerned: I would like to remind the House that the Communist Party of Greece, with a draft law, has called for their abolition and, by the way, we call on the people to stand up and not to pass the law - looting. With regard to the bill on cooperatives: Minister, you had finesse with the PASOK MPs, who is more left. They shouldn't complain about it. Here, your bill has shreds of unpopularity from Mr. Scandalidis, former Minister of Agriculture at PASOK. Of course, they complain because most PASOK has passed to SYRIZA. You're a social democracy, too! Hey, you're accusing them of failing the cooperatives. The truth is, the result of the policy of previous governments has led to bankruptcy and degeneration and to the consciousness of small and medium-sized farms and society in general. If you ask a farmer, 'is right', they say, 'we have not benefited, the cooperatives take us'. But you have to answer why and you have to tell the whole truth, not half. Because it is hypocrisy, it is foolishness, to say that there will be benefits to small and medium-sized farmers when you take them for hazelnut. They know, a survival match they gave forty days with big mobilizations. The tools, not extermination, are ready. Law - looting for insurance, VAT at 24% and so much else. In the end, why did the cooperatives degenerate? Prior to joining the European Union, they had a role to play in helping the cultivation and concentration of production and especially in exporting products, such as raisins and tobacco that are now shrinking because of the European Union. The agricultural population was more and higher than GDP in the agricultural sector. Besides, the bloody mobilisations of raisin producers are left in history, because they were fighting to stop stealing and robbing their products, as well as tobacco growers for the big fights. The urban state, therefore, had developed export trade with agricultural products by depriving farmers and workers. Some cooperatives had developed processing. For example, the Cooperative Dairy Industry "SPR" opened with a risk. He had profits. In the course it was closed and cooperatives were used as party rulers. So then with subsidies and aid, without risk, the large dairy industries that are now a cartel were made. That's the bourgeois state. They're throwing the prices under production costs today, they've been paying them for months. Extortion and pay are going to the cloud. They're protesting. And you look at them. So you protect industrialists rather than collapsed stockfarmers. The same is true of the butter producers and the sugar industry. It outweighs the interests of the bank and not of the people for customs, local sugar and jobs. After accession to the European Union and the quotas, the cooperatives played the role of extremism in the CFP. Of course, the tertiary sector was also growing. The cooperatives, therefore, were giving subsidies and keeping something as a reward for the burying of fruits and sharing the burial, that is, the subsidies of the European Union. Then they gave better prices for burying than today they enjoy, like oranges. I mean, it was high motive. It was the cheese in the light for destruction of productive powers. In fact, they forced cooperatives to become groups or to build producer groups in order to get the burial, subsidies. Nowadays, they're planting, they're being earned by the OSCE. Their tertiary body, PASPEGES, sinful and parasitic. He was against small and medium-sized farmers, he was talking about fund cooperatives and not heads, he first, he was used, and openly he undermined the survival struggles of small and medium-sized farmers. He was your official interlocutor. Now? Lie down. You throw her in the trash. We are interested in the workers, and that is why we have tabled and insisted on the amendment, but you too are revealing it. I say this because our amendments also concerned dismissal of cooperative workers and the persecution of fighters from farmers and workers and the abolition of the excise duty on wine. You have not escaped the rule, only government MPs have finally accepted amendments. When it's about people's problems, then only words of comfort. But in words of comfort, no problems are solved. And by the way, the off-site regime is unacceptable and I give the proposal from the ELGA club for legislative improvement, as it is unacceptable to ask for blocs. I am presenting for the minutes the proposal of the ELGA club. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now you have a void as far as the tertiary institution is concerned. You will come with a lot of amendments. Do you know why? Because in many committees there is a farmer's representative. What are you gonna do? Are you going to delete or drop lots? You told us that there have been some twenty cooperative organisations, essentially capitalist companies. In fact, some are playing bad games on the farmers' back. Already important assets of ASA passed as shares in associations and in relation to SKOS some are trying to collect them and fruit them. The cooperatives, therefore, played the role of the gutter of European Community policy. Now you want to create anonymous companies that will work to strengthen the large, capitalist form of farms. You are leading them to death, so you better implement the objectives of the common agricultural policy for economic growth and the agricultural sector. You are adapting to the CAP conditions, so you are legislating in an even cleaner, more absolute, more authoritarian way to enter commercial and industrial capital into your new partnership. They are the ones who will make use of infrastructures built by small and medium-sized enterprises with their contributions to warehouses and packing facilities. You give them tax exemptions and other benefits. Moreover, the urban system, its parties and governments have included in the objectives of capitalist development and the agri-food sector. Studies since 2011 of the Greek Industrial Association and the Hellenic Banks Association have been talking about products such as feta, oil, mastic, yolk, yolk, wine - that you abolish the forced cooperatives - aquaculture and others that can evolve into pillars of development, but through structural and structural changes, mainly the restoration of competitiveness and the size of the clergy, in order to concentrate and concentrate agricultural food production on large capitalist enterprises. Of course, the structural problems are real and you are trying to solve them both by cooperatives with anonymous companies and by the rural HIAD for rentals, concessions of state land and other incentives. The question is: With such a design of cooperatives, do you ensure food adequacy for the people and the country? Do you ensure growth that works for the people? Of course not! And you don't have that aim. Your design is capitalist cooperatives that will develop entrepreneurship, competitiveness, i.e. profit. So you're mocking and pretending when you say it's small and medium-sized. And on the one hand, you cannot do any differently because that is what the European Union and the CFP you have adopted, you are voting and you are implementing. For the Communist Party of Greece, priority is to ensure that the people are fed. There are possibilities of production that meet domestic needs. However, in the context of the European Union these have been strangled. The productive powers have been destroyed. The four sugar factories don't work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We consider that scientifically and by planning, the use of land for the development of different sectors, cheap and good foods and raw materials for the processing and improvement of productivity with state scientific and technical infrastructure and social property in the energy and telecommunications industries can provide work for farmers and incomes, and of course, good and quality food.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u325	Ms. Manolakou, it's over. Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u326	I shall conclude, Mr President. Such a solution contributes to small and medium-sized farms and the people. That is why - if you like - Vice-Population MPs are slandering our proposal and presenting the further capitalism of the cooperatives you, as socialist communist, are making. We say to the farm to see that thirty-five years in Greece go from evil to worse and develop their struggle, at the same time creating conditions for a definitive overthrow of capitalist exploitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u327	Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u328	Ladies and gentlemen, unemployment is at 28% and the government is confined to mini-management. Productive restructuring of the economy is the bet of all. And here's the question: Will the productive reconstruction of the economy be with 24% VAT? With overtaxation of the agricultural sector? By increasing the rate of taxation from 13% to 26%? By increasing the tax deposit from 27.5% to 100%? By abolishing the grant tax exemption for up to EUR 12 000? With an increase of the excise duty on oil from EUR 66 to EUR 200 per kilometre? With a reduction in the heating oil subsidy? With an increase in the price of the agricultural current? By tripling the contributions to the OGA and pensioning in the form of an allowance? With an increase in VAT on agricultural supplies from 13% to 23%? So, Lords of the Government, what support do you speak of the primary sector? Minister, the farmer of 2016 has 10 times the cost of production than the farmer of 1986. Do you today impoverish the professional farmer and dare to talk about productive reconstruction? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stathakis had promised that by 31 March we will have the new development law. Of course, as expected, there was no development law until today. Government ministers go to the IMF Spring Summit in Washington to negotiate new measures of EUR 5.4 billion that have been accepted, as well as debt reduction. And they come back without any commitment from the debt partners and with an additional 3 billion in their suitcases and even celebrate success. The conclusions are yours, then. This, if nothing else, is called hunger! You are speaking for the first time on the left, and in fact for 15 months you have been promoting the most overwhelming policies in recent years. You build client networks in all the structures of the state. Benefit the capital. Let me remind you of the act of legislative content of the public's great-indicators who remain in anonymity. We have asked you on several occasions. You don't care. You didn't let us know who those big governmenters are. However, you are negotiating the divestment of the property of the Greek people with foreign funds. Minister, with this policy of productive reconstruction and redistribution of the national wealth produced, there can be no. Finally, build on what you have found, especially in the agricultural sector. Promote the product basket of the region, an institution introduced by PASOK to highlight the products of the region. Finally, give incentives to producer groups and associations to testify at low cost to their products. Show the production units, the cheese shops, the wineries, the standard stack facilities. Support the establishment and operation of livestock units. That's the bet. But instead of all this, what are you doing? You don't care! You bring a bill for agricultural cooperatives and you disorientate farmers. It is a bill of party intervention which, in fact, is dismantling the cooperatives. Ladies and gentlemen, you are increasing the minimum number of participants in the agricultural cooperatives. Fishing cooperatives operating small dives, such as Mesolonghi, are led to sealing. We have tabled an amendment to reduce the minimum number to seven. You reduced the number from fifteen to ten, with a legislative improvement. We, Minister, insist and demand that we have seven members. That is what the Treaties impose. With Article 6, you are allowing investors to register as members of cooperatives. With this possibility, the purpose and concept of the agricultural cooperative is distorted, because the participation of an investor means that foreign funds can also enter on favourable tax terms. This is at the expense of agricultural cooperatives and, in general, the rural economy. If you open the door to foreign funds here, what will remain for Greek producers? Article 8 provides for 80% of production to be given to the cooperative, regardless of the price to be paid. This regulation needs to be shielded with predictions of prices. You require the cooperative to buy supplies for the needs of the agricultural holding. However, there are small shops in the province. What will these small businessmen do? Because, basically, you put them in a padlock. We're waiting on your proposal. With Article 9, you withdraw, Minister, the provision for privileges to investors with small cooperative shares. It's challenging how you promote foreign interests. Article 43 concerns amateur fishing, an issue involving hundreds of thousands of amateur fishermen. They're asking you to withdraw this bill and you're deaf. Do you know what you're doing with all that foreign policy? To reduce the rural population, to increase the black, undeclared work in the field, to reduce the quality of products produced, to abandon the countryside. The site needs productive reconstruction to produce wealth, which will be redistributed. Ladies and gentlemen, the borrowings have come to an end. So rule with what you promised in the election. If you cannot serve this goal, you better quit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u329	If the Aetolian carnivals do not show respect in time, who will they show? Mr Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr President. In today's Anniversary, the need for the democratic world to take care of itself in good time and validly and not to handle the extreme right-wing fascist ostrich - such as the pension history of the MPs - is undeniably recorded - does not leave forbidden liquors and windows, who use them to articulate their anti-parliamentary and anti-democratic political delirium. I also had the opportunity in February of the timely question I had put to the Minister, to point out to him that it is not possible in insurance to create uniform rules of contributions and benefits, to abolish the thresholds before '82 after '92 and then '92 and leave a threshold to be created before '12 and after '12 MPs. I've pointed it out ever since. And unfortunately, three months later, I am confirmed by what we are experiencing with a number of recordings on television networks. I'm coming to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, in the barbarity of globalisation, the Greek agricultural sector is not an isolated island. As a result, developments in the agricultural sector internationally need to be taken seriously into account in any attempt to establish a survival and reconstruction strategy for our agricultural sector. As the Common Agricultural Policy forms part of the World Trade Organisation's specifications, so the prices on the supermarket shelf, Mr Minister, operating in Greece, are set on an oligopolistic basis and the prices of pesticides, herbicide fertilisers are shaped in a completely oligopolistic context. Global developments in over-concentration of all functions of the agri-food chain no longer only threatens small and medium-sized enterprises in the sectors and sectors operating from the field and the stable to the table and the dish. They threaten food security as a whole, with the possibility of the agri-food oligopoly opening and closing the cliff at the beam and against its interests. Today, then, we are not called upon to set up a framework for the reconstruction of the cooperative movement in the service of farmers. We have to set up a framework that ensures solidarity between producers and consumers, because both are equally threatened. We are called upon to form a framework of principles and values, objectives and functions, where neither the consumer nor the producer will be the prerogative of the intermediaries. Because I am speaking with the power of the experienced example and not of general theories, let my humility testify in the Minutes to this effort that we had started in January of '87 and which was completed in January of '90. It is the 'CYRICATO GREEROTYPE' on 6-7 January 1990, 'For a chemical-free agriculture'. In his column, Mr. Orphanides presented it, "initial effort in the Yanitsa of Pella Prefecture", my special homeland. As the University of Thessaloniki says, in March 1988 the first major educational program for organic farming was launched in the Municipality of Giannitsons of the Municipality of Pella where thirty years ago, twenty-one years ago as a municipal advisor at that time, I was able to be the coordinator of this program. I'm tabling it in the Minutes, so for the record. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are always talking about the experienced example, not of a seat or an office that is intended. If we do not lay the foundations for dealing with the problem throughout the range from production to trade, to consumption, to producers' supplies, our intervention will be lacking. When the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee of the European Union had to openly denounce the risks of food safety for the European Union itself, it is clear that the risks are now threatening. I am therefore presenting to the National Representation, in the hope of being read, an appeal to all colleagues to read out the study of a group of economists, sociologists, experts on the global, now, agricultural issue led by George Slavos for eight years by the Economic and Social Committee of the European Union. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That study provides sufficient evidence to substantiate the pharaonic dimensions and mentality of overconcentration and snatching land from Ukraine and Romania to Russia, the USA, the whole of Africa. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, it's worth it. In fact, Mr President, the death of the family farm in Europe itself is apparent. In other words, it is revealed that the fighter reinstates the request “the right to land and water” as a basic human right, the fighter reinstatement of the request on a global basis ‘the land to its growers’. It is neither legal nor technical. And I'll close ten reports, one of which I'm just going to file.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u331	Ten? Mr. Triantafylides, there is a danger that the speech will become pharaonic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u332	I submit this study for reading. It's twenty-eight pages. Yes, Mr. President, all right. We understood the reference, but at some point the Members could not get a case for the needs of television networks. They have to get into the realm of problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u333	Understand it, but understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u334	I'll just mention one. Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u335	You remove a speech from the others, Mr. Triantafylides. It's over and out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u336	Allow me only one. I would like to say five lines, Mr President, if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u337	We don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u338	The introduction by any means...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u339	It is a suffocating context, Mr Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u340	Mr Baroness, you gave the previous speakers two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u341	No, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u342	You want to take away my word. Thank you very much, be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u343	I'm not taking away your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u344	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u345	Well, now. Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u346	If it was Voridis, you'd leave him for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u347	Well, what are you talking about? Do you know your names? Don't lead the language of the mind. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, half a century after that clear day, we are obviously not at risk of military dictatorship, but as far as we are in a political system and society we are denying self-consciousness and understanding, democracy remains incomplete and vulnerable. And because yellowism and populism are threatening directly, systematically and undermining parliamentaryism, we must clarify the issue, which has suddenly emerged as the major, of Parliamentary pensions in its real context. That is why I welcome the intervention of the President of this House and I think it should concern us so that we can bring it to its true dimensions. Before entering the bill, I would like to comment on a topical issue and, of course, on Mrs Thanos' new hit, which, since she is so fond of being publicly exposed, since she has the sarcasm of politics, she should do what other judges have done, as well as quasi-courts and prosecutors. Let it be dealt, after it is, of course, removed from justice. Let her finally realize that the prestige of the many justice she wants to defend does not defend it using the official website of the Supreme Court of the country, to denounce the perpetrators and those who bother her. I move on to the subject, which is extremely serious, and I shall refer above all, Minister, to what we believe this very serious bill should contain. The main areas of the necessary, as long as ever the country's National Productive Reconstruction Plan can only be those in which we have comparative advantages, natural dowry, recognition, experience, knowledge and ability. And one could not argue that the agricultural sector should occupy a central role in such planning. However, for years now, we have all become familiar with the idea of a Greek agriculture, which cannot be maintained without exemptions, reliefs, compensation and rich payments from the European Union. Both the farmers' representatives and their collectors, and the political leadership in question, are convinced that there is no alternative to Greek agriculture, apart from the uninterrupted provision of benefits to the agricultural sector. Unfortunately, this has not changed in the years of the crisis. Of course, cooperation in the agricultural sector is still part of the problem over time. The cooperative movement, despite its deep roots in our country, was denounced in many respects by following the sinful course of our political parties. The conversion of cooperatives, with the exception of brilliant exceptions, into areas of influence and exercise of power and their attachment to party feathers and phenomena of mismanagement and destruction of resources, as well as widespread corruption, makes sense to eliminate co-operation and seriously damage the social fabric of rural space. But the question remains, and the power in the unit remains in place over time. No producer, no matter how quality it produces, has sufficient knowledge, time and money to do all it needs today in a highly competitive environment. If it is alienated from its product in its primary production, by not accompanimenting it to the agri-food chain, certification, standardisation, processing, if necessary, projection and marketing, depriving it of added value, it will not be economically viable for a long time. And it is no coincidence that the new CAP - we say that the new CAP starts now, but it does not start now, in 2014, and ends in 2020, and let us take it into account - with a backdrop of incentives and counter-motors promoting producer groups and organisations. Today, we are talking about a bill reflecting how the government perceives the reconstruction of the cooperative movement, which is, of course, a cornerstone in the country's agri-food sector. Reading it, one can easily find out that it is inspired by a statist concept that goes through the philosophy of the bill, a philosophy that ultimately prevents the free development of the initiatives that Greek agriculture needs as much as ever. Why, for example, should the State lay down the details relating to the minimum number of members, the term of office of each cooperative board or the number of members' terms of office? Should cooperatives not function and be run independently and on the basis of priorities and specificities in their activities? What room does the umbrella of the state leave for innovation and the emergence of new forms of collective responsibility? Why does it not allow the private voluntary initiative to breathe, as is happening anywhere in the rest of Europe? Why should secondary organisations be organised or compulsory organisations set up by law, when Community practice is much more free? In fact, all this at a time when there is no provision for any form of representation of cooperatives at the level of the organisations of the European Union. For example, in the powerful COPA - COGECA in Brussels who will represent the country's primary sector? What if it hurts head, we cut head? I say this in relation to the abolition of PASPEGES, which is, of course, a sinner. However, do we want to abolish it, rather than reform it, why do we want to distribute its clothes differently? What about her employees? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are bringing in a bill which is relied on by a number of contradictory, interventionist and forced provisions, a bill - a drafting of bad provisions of earlier legislation, most of which have indeed worked to the detriment of agricultural cooperatives. This is a bill incomplete. A law on agricultural cooperatives should, in our view, only be based on a number of broad axes in line with the best international and Community practices. What prediction have you made, to say, in the direction of strengthening producer organisations? It is known that these organisations, agricultural cooperatives in their overwhelming majority, are characterised by a small size, a low degree of organisation, an extremely low proportion of their market value of production, and their inability to fruit a greater share of value added in the supply chain of the agri-food industry. On the other hand, the strict regulatory framework governing their establishment and operation, with irrational organisational and environmental requirements, entail in turn increased production costs and all these are one of the main reasons for the non-participation of producers. Should they not be encouraged to function? Should there not be a system of tax and institutional incentives in favour of their producer members and the producer organisations themselves? Why not try to regulate the uncontrolled market for agricultural supplies within this bill? Why is there not a price observatory of companies, of small oligopoly, traded in any way so that the Ministry is able to systematically inform producers, as is the case in other countries - members of the European Union. The burden of VAT inputs to 23%, from 13%, and from tomorrow to 24%, I think we all realise that it makes Greek agriculture unsustainable. Why don't you adopt policies of incentives and counter-incentives, since, in any case, protectionism cannot be applied and we are not asking for that. Why, however, is there no intervention to deal with unfair trade practices, which carry out large retail chains of food? You could and should also be adopted in this bill, a minimum, or even a regulatory framework, whereby the ex post credit invoice, which is the vehicle of extortion and of course the irrational price rise, should be abolished or that the relevant Community directive, which lays down a maximum period for the payment of goods on thirty calendar days from the date of its receipt and is not observed in our country, could be respected. In addition, there is no intervention to deal with fraud in food or control of Greekisation in imported agricultural products. You thought about introducing policy-making measures for the exploitation of agricultural land, making available for use all those areas which are not available for cultivation, while being appropriate. Have you considered interventions, such as the introduction of counter-incentives for the non-use of privately owned agricultural land, by imposing a fee on those owners who avoid renting it or incentives to professional farmers, who are members of agricultural cooperatives or producer organisations by reducing the rate of taxation of income from rented agricultural parcels? All these are common practices that happen in all the other countries - members of the European Union. Support seasonal employment on farms. Apply seasonal workers' employment support programmes on farms, professional farmers - members of agricultural cooperatives and producer organisations according to the OAED standards. Support farmers in reducing expenditure on feed, which on average represents 35% of the inputs to agricultural production according to data 2009-2013. Give their incentives to participate in collective schemes. Only in this way, with the introduction of incentives and counter-motors, can we renew and regenerate Greek agriculture and make it competitive. As far as agri-food partnerships are concerned, you are effectively abolishing them, depriving them of the granting of quality marks. So you are strengthening an institution that, for example, has successfully worked in Crete by highlighting, highlighting and promoting the products of Crete, the Cretan diet, the Cretan cuisine, the Cretan culture, an innovative effort aimed at linking the two main pillars of the economy, not only of the island but of the country, of the agri-foodstuffs with tourism? It is clear that you are not exemplified by parallel Greece, which wants to be expressed even more and is here. The previous points referred to are only part of a number of pending regulations, which would enable an effective and effective debate to be launched to address the critical problems that are inhibiting or restricting the possibilities for the reconstruction and operational development of agricultural cooperatives and producer organisations. I have pointed out to you, Minister, from this step forward in the days of the blockades, that the Prime Minister has done very well and has agreed to discuss national routes with him. He never thought, however, - or even then - of asking representatives of creative Greece, that of parallel Greece, how they manage, even within the crisis, what problems they encounter, what they propose, such as recognition, extroversion, differentiation, professional cooperation. Are these promoted through your bill, or are you institutions in favour of the well-known dreadful reactions, in favour of introverticity and protectionism, which today cannot be implemented, even if we want them, in favour of a past, which has irrevocably entered the timeframe of history?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u349	Put it down, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u350	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u351	But does not all twelve minutes go to the Parliamentary Representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u352	We didn't even talk yesterday. We're not a second-guesser. I just need a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u353	Do you borrow the time from yesterday?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u354	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u355	Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u356	It is very difficult to entrepreneurship and as a concept is suspicious and demonized in our country. But she's the only one who can get us out of bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u357	Thank you. Mr. Arvanitides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u358	Mr President, for today's black anniversary, I have to say that it is not enough to remember if you do not always fight to protect democracy from its enemies. As if you do not remember with vivid historical memory, you cannot easily see the dangers to democracy by visible and invisible enemies. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government's response to the problems of the cooperative movement is simple: it hurts hand, it cuts head. We live in the twenty-first century, and the Minister for Rural Development considers that strong state intervention in the operation of cooperatives is a key part of the solution of the existing ones, indeed, problems. Without taking into account successful models of cooperatives that have even been able to enter the stock exchange, without calculating the costs of the destruction of agri-food partnerships, without having a plan for the productive reconstruction of the countryside, you are trying to convince us that tight state control will provide a solution to a basically productive and economic issue. If that is the case, Minister, we probably discussed the bill on the wrong committee. It would be better to discuss this in the Committee on Public Administration and not in the Committee on Production and Trade. So you don't have to tell me that I'm wrong with you, I want to bring a simple example. The explanatory statement states that the main objective of the bill is the active role of cooperatives in the production, processing and marketing of agricultural products. That's as good as it is. But please tell me a regulation which encourages cooperatives to move forward, such as investment or standardisation of agricultural products. Not only is there not such a provision, but also with the articles to be voted on, you are abolishing the self-employed of cooperatives, you are trespassing on the fundamental principles of the cooperative movement. This is perhaps why, for the first time, a cooperative bill does not go through the Committee. Let's just say that the critique of counterpopulation is unfair. Didn't it bother you that at the hearing of the bodies there was almost anyone supporting the bill? Is everyone wrong? You come here and you talk to us about the next day of the cooperatives, while at the same time you break agricultural income and get farmers to stop producing. We will shortly be talking about farmers' cooperatives, but there will be no farmers to operate them. Your policy on the agricultural world only bears burdens and because the government's negotiating belief account has no end, I would like to remind you of the results of your policy on agricultural income to date. You are raising the rate of taxation, from 13% to 26%, the tax advance from 27.5% to 100%, the excise duty on oil from 66 to 200 euros per kilogram. You increase the price of agricultural current, the VAT on agricultural supplies from 13% to 23% and now 24%. You're increasing contributions to the OGA and we're going to talk about triple. You are abolishing the subsidy tax exemption for amounts up to EUR 12 000. You're reducing the subsidy for heating oil. You imposed a excise duty on wine. You have not yet taken any measures to support cow farmers, while no one is sure what will happen and where the farmers' red loans will end. This includes your policy on the rural world. And of course, with this bill, you will not succeed in strengthening agricultural income, because very simply, you do not realize that cooperatives are part of production and the real economy and not decentralised state structures. The changes you have made on the basis of our rapporteur's proposals are welcome, but not enough to change the direction of the bill. And since, unfortunately, I do not have the time to discuss the articles in detail, I too would like to point out the need to change the range of beneficiaries of compensation to the cooperatives in liquidation, so that the workers concerned can also get what they are owed to them. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close my position with the serious problem that exists in Northern Greece and Idomeni. And I don't mean, of course, the clever ones who heard last week about the renting of craft buildings in BIPE, Sindou, refugees and immigrants. I am talking about the diversion of the move through Bulgaria and Serbia, rather than through Identified, which costs 6,000 euros per train. TRAINOSE is suffering enormous damage. The production process in Northern Greece exceeds the cost limit. In Enclosed there are a hundred and fifty wagons enclosed, with the cost of resetting up to 2000 euros in the car. In the line through Bulgaria, delays exceed 15 days at an increased cost of up to 40%. The total damage so far amounts to EUR 4 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a little more time, Mr President. I wonder how much longer we will expect the government to do its duty, unless our policy is the policy that has been heard, that we expect people to be desperate and to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u359	Put it down, Mr. Comrade. You've exhausted the refugee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u360	Minister, if you cannot plan the new development plan for the country, if you cannot submit the new development law, if you cannot make use of the possibilities of the Yunker package, at least do not put any additional obstacles on people who keep the country's production upright. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u361	Thank you. Mr. Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u362	Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today's anniversary, I would subscribe to all the things that my companion and friend Spyros Danellis said, saying to all of you that in my ears you said - and I address the SYRIZA gentlemen - "the junta did not end in 1973", associating a military junta with elected governments for the sake of a few dozen votes. I'm sure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u363	We weren't talking about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u364	If you didn't say it, you regret it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u365	What did we regret? I guess you're not listening well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u366	Ladies and gentlemen, I was listening very well, as I was hearing about the shading of the memorials, which is why you regret. Please! Unfortunately, with your presence - the first time on the left - the words have lost both their value and their importance. As far as I'm concerned, Minister, because I saw that sometime you're already up...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u367	We're hovering. Next, we're gonna blow up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u368	Because I saw that you were wondering what happened in 2010, in 2011, in 2012, do not come to Parliament and you are wasting your time. You're going down a floor to the minister underneath. He was a minister of that time. You'll ask him exactly what happened and he'll inform you and you won't have to blush, sneeze. (AG) Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder: What increase in VAT will you not vote on? The first one, from 13% to 23%? The second, 23%, 24%? Or the third one? What increase would the President of the Independent Greeks not vote even if the government falls? Third? Fourth? The fifth? Ladies and gentlemen, I hear that the farmers have welcomed the bill with joy and horror. We, with our rapporteur, Michael Jeleigh, in the discussions that we held with twenty-three bodies within the House, but also with the bodies who came to the committee responsible, did not hear that they were happy. I didn't hear you get rewarded. And because you said a lot about PASPEGIES or the other organisations, I would like to inform you - Mr Papadopoulos is not here, but I will inform you, Minister, that I am sure you will pass it on to him - that most of them - at least half of them - were your voters. At least half of the leaderships were your voters. Now, I don't think they're either.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u369	Do you know what happened in the caller? The party tube brings blindness and deafness!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Femmelle, okay, I understand. You're nervous. Here's 24%, you need to raise your hand, and you need to apologize to your voters for the lies you've been telling. They'll charge them to you. They have a badge. This is the first time left. Every area has a name. But now let's go a little bit on matters, Minister. With regard to Chios and the Association of Mastic producers, I say to you this: if you really wanted to bring in a provision which does not conceal other procedures - because a private person will take over, if there is no Mastic producers' association - you would bring a provision with incentives and anti-incidents. But I understand that not even the letter sent to you by the Reverend Metropolitan who tells you "...the Lord can illuminate the authorities in order to do what is right" was unable to bring you on the right path and continue. And I am sure your Members will not vote for this provision, because they will have to return to their particular homes and there is - according to your favorite expression - a universal protest about what you bring. I submit for the Minutes the letter from the Metropolitan. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to refer briefly to the ASA Arcadias. With what you're doing, Minister, won't they shut down activities? Will the feed factory, for example, not close when you force them to operate on the basis of their primary products? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What do you want to do about S.H.I.E.L.D. and every N.E.L.D.? To become a SYRIZA component, which will be 100% controlled by you? I would like to ask you this: will the producer, after stopping the activities, benefit or not? Won't he sell cheap to dealers and buy his fertilizers expensive? Tell me why you're doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u371	Mr. Constantinople, let us not turn the speech into odyssey.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u372	I shall conclude, Mr President. You know what these friends told me? A "ELECTRONIC" official told me: We voted for SYRIZA to be able to claim our rights, not to destroy us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u373	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u374	Mr President, thank you. You will allow me a personal report, because today is April 21st. I was a student at the time, and we had the heat for 15% for education. That was the motto that the Association of Centres of George Papandreou had at that time. We, as students, followed the great three-month strike of teachers, and we also stand as students. And one morning we woke up and weren't allowed out of our house, even though we were minors. I do not want to talk about anything else, because every year I have this memory. Questions now under the co-operatives bill today: The Union of Centres, which we consider, Mr President, to be, in a way, the continuation of the Association of Centres, not only for its title but also for its ideologies, always has its mind in the rural part of Greece. We have, as far as possible, given our brief presence in the House, our support. We have been haunted many times by the attack that the rural world is taking, with a classic and timely example of insurance and taxation, wine tax and today, a new cooperative bill. I would like to remind you that Greece has a tradition in the cooperatives and especially in the free cooperatives. We will remember the vineyards and the Solidarity Union that existed. We will remember that the first law on cooperatives introduced him by Eleftherios Venizelos, without at that time discerning citizens in urban, agricultural or other categories. We will remember more recent examples, such as Alexandros Baltatzis, who was President of the Farmers and Workers Party and participated in the efforts of the Union of Centres. So because, as I have said before, we in the Centro Association also believe that we can claim the role of contributor to the Centre Union, stand by the question of cooperatives, and we are very concerned about it. So what do we see? The cooperative of any form has a constitutional support from the Greek state. You will allow me to remind you of what Article 12 of the Constitution says: The cooperatives are self-governed, under the terms of the law and the statute, and are under the protection and supervision of the State, which is obliged to take care of them. So we have a matter now. The self-government of cooperatives, which is constitutionally founded, reaches the point in a text of about fifty articles - of which thirty-five concern cooperatives, while the others concern matters of the Ministry of Agriculture - to put in every article and paragraph his execution or the modalities of his or her application or the supervision of a ministerial decision, of which we do not even see the outline in the law? We have very serious doubts about the transfer of legislation to ministerial decisions and, in particular, on an issue that the Constitution itself seeks to self-government, of course, under the terms of the law, but which cannot be destroyed by self-government. We believe, therefore, that the transfer of legislation to ministerial decisions - not even to presidential decrees, to say that they are being put under the suffering of the Council of State and have our guarantees of legal completeness or even constitutional coverage - is a disaster of the co-operatives' self-government. In this sense, we will vote against the bill in principle. We do not think that everything can be transferred to executive power. In this House these issues should have been raised, discussed. I would like to make a few comments, in conjunction with the wider policy, pursued in agriculture and the proposed provisions. I don't want to be tired. I have heard from many colleagues that there is a change in the status of Greek agriculture today. In particular, then, we accept intense competition from foreign countries, even the feta is in danger of losing its Greekity and talking about feta Canada. We may be talking about Czech feta soon, Mr Apostleu, and about Chinese feta later, I don't know, I won't answer that, because I don't know it and consume foreign products with Greek names. So what are we gonna do? Cooperatives aim at solidarity, cooperation and mutual assistance between members. So let us look at some of the issues that arise from the text of the draft, which we are about to discuss. I'm gonna be a little held up. It is a matter that concerns us. The form of cooperatives - we cannot say anything else - is essentially a commercial company without a minimum capital. Cooperatives themselves decide to do so, with a self-government which in many respects is reduced. However, I see in Article 10 that cooperatives also have subsidiary responsibility over third parties for the debts of the cooperative. The subsidiary responsibility, as we understand it, is what it says? Is the co-operative owed? Not enough is the share given by the partner to cover the capital, but at some point it is likely that the judiciary may knock on the door for the reason that the co-operative’s capital is not enough or has been consumed. We therefore think that, in order to speak of cooperatives and, above all, of extreme and healthy ones, we should set a limit to the individual subsidiary liability of the cooperative, the partner, because otherwise it can be transferred to unlimited liability if we say that it will be laid down in the statute. The statute, therefore, where we unfortunately have a bad experience from cooperative and cooperative administrations - not to mention names of associations, not federations - I want you to stand, Mr Minister, and see it. To limit the liability and, if possible, to delete subsidiary liability, because yes, it can be financially limited in terms of quantity, but also the minimum requirement against the members of the cooperative, can also lead to the confiscation of houses or the removal of property. I think, therefore, that there is no question of this staying in the law. I'm on my way. I am going to an interesting point, in our view, which is state supervision over agricultural cooperatives. I am referring to Article 18 and then to Articles 19 and 20. It is very strict to monitor, as it stands, because they are vague legal concepts, which are referred to here. It has not been identified to what extent supervision will be reached, and in future there will be doubts and shocks, even of the notion of cooperatives, if we want to support them, without wanting to create old party cooperatives or use them as tools for enriching various, intelligent or non-intelligent ones. I'm not going to comment anymore. What I would also like to point out is that the Minister is keeping the possibility of imposing administrative sanctions against cooperatives in his decision-making. The administrative sanctions, as we know today, are consistent with criminal sanctions. The executive has no power in its own decision, i.e. the Minister, to determine when administrative sanctions are imposed. In fact, this point is also noted by the Parliamentary Scientific Service, which indirectly highlights the unconstitutionality of the provision. I would like, in order not to get too far, to go to the famous Article 32 for forced cooperatives, those of whom we want to maintain or want to dismantle? I don't understand the purpose of the law at this point. I'll say, Mr. Apostleu, because I don't understand. We are therefore told that the compulsory cooperatives are required by the European Community, because a winemaker in Samos appealed, protesting against a decision by the Council of State which had excluded him from the scope of the provisions, from the possibility of establishing a private winery. Is that what the European Court of Justice said? Did he say "dissolve forced cooperatives" or did he say that in this case could the individual who appealed not to be a member of the forced cooperative? I do not think that there was a general decision, which would become a direct application in Greece and say, we make them all broken up. Why am I saying that? We have four kinds, we have four unique products: Kozani crocos, Chios mastics, Samos wine and Santorini products. These four agricultural, agricultural and other species do not meet easily elsewhere and we should protect them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish, Mr President. If, on the one hand, the Greek State had the opportunity to ask for the exclusion of European undertakings and, on the other, to seek by applying the Greek constitutional provisions of Article 28, to pass it on with an agreement with the European Union, to have greater force over the arrangements of the Convention, we could solve the problem. Why, what do I see today? At the last minute, and a legislative improvement that says that it will be transformed by a decision of the Minister or at the request of the cooperative to the competent authority or following the adoption of an irrevocable sentence or for the application of national legislation. Why should we call all this divorcingly and, in particular, under Greek law? Tomorrow he will be able to vote on the Minister's proposal - so we see that the governments are now legislating and not the House - and that Parliament should legislate to abolish compulsory cooperatives. All this effort, which has been made for so many years by people to acquire a brand name, to acquire a uniqueness of these products, is lost. With these little thoughts and with your tolerance I will say one last, Mr President. Contracts for the future sale of agricultural products. What's he talking about here? Is he referring to the famous promotions? And because the banks at the moment do not fund cooperative organisations, the Minister knows - and I, as I know, - about the issue of the so-called promotions that they have covered tachychism many times. In this article, therefore, you should not commit the cooperatives and sign contracts by decision of their administrations that will sell production for the next year, at predetermined prices, because you also deprive them of the right to negotiate and the right to a free economy. So I wanted to close those thoughts, Mr President. I've got a lot more remarks in this bill, as you can see, because I've been busy...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u375	Only time's up, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u376	...and the Group of the European Central Bank, but I will be confined, while respecting the time you have given us, to these comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-five students and three educational sessions from the private General School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u378	Thank you. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by giving you two opinions which, if you like, may be a little more objective than yours, but also ours. As you know, I come from an area that has many cooperatives and, indeed, cooperatives - standards. After all, and Mr Bolaris was in the mood to visit them, and indeed he praised their work. They are cooperatives - standards, which have so far supported agricultural and livestock production and have contributed to the development of the region. So I asked them their opinion on this bill. I have to tell you that not only was negative, but they told me that everything you can't control, you want to close it. The second point, Minister, which I think you should also take into account - is that I come from a section in the university with a strong social policy area. When I asked them for their opinion on this bill in terms of the social economy, they answered a very simple thing. I have been told that this is the destruction of the social economy for one reason: that interventionism and the supervision of the state reach such a point that it eventually strangles any private initiative, rural economy and social economy. If you do not accept it from me, I think you should be concerned about their own viewpoint. Because I think it is of the utmost importance for how society is perceived - and, in fact, for those who will come to implement these provisions - your own legislative initiatives. Because I am talking about this bill, Minister, I would tell you what the main problematic provisions are in our view. The rapporteur for the Democratic Integration has explained it in full. However, the provision of a maximum of two terms for the members of the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board - Article 16(1) - is, in our view, an authoritarian and unconstitutional regulation, because it is contrary to the cooperative freedom of rural space. Article 20(2)(c) provides for an obligation to submit a three-year summary operational plan to the Ministry of Rural Development. It is clear here that the government intends to maintain control - some say absolute control - in the operation of cooperatives and thus in the agricultural movement. The operational plan should be submitted to the cooperative financing body and not, of course, to the Ministry's bureaucratic structures, which will then come to adopt it. It is particularly problematic and indirect to regulate the trade between cooperatives, Mr Minister. It is characteristic of the problem of regulation that there is no concern about the significant degree of differentiation observed in our country between the large number of trade and agricultural products. In Greece, the relevant economic sector has a high and varied variety of products, regions of origin and production. The proposed arrangements therefore introduce an equivalent and exotic model of regulation. In Article 23(2), unjustified State intervention is introduced by establishing the price for the disposal of products by the cooperative to third persons. This regulation is directly contrary to the freedom of the social and rural economy. Paragraph 3 of the same article provides for the retention of 10% of surpluses for the creation of a regular reserve. However, we still have a regulation - which I do not understand - on the Agricultural and Cooperative Education Fund at 2%, which, as you know to date, we do not have such training. You're doing it like tolls. Before we have the roads, we pay the toll to get through the streets later! So what I'm saying is that the draft law is the result of a blind interventionist state. It must be made clear that even if the Members of the House vote for this, the principles of 'cooperative' and the free development of economic activity from the rural world must be protected, because they are constitutional principles. And you will see that many of these provisions will be extinguished. I only take thirty seconds to mention this amazing amendment, brought by Mr Pappas to the House, which has to do with communication support, with this special service of communication, refugee and immigration policy! The first thing I'm impressed about is why 15 days ago we talked about another immigration policy bill, the country didn't need communication support and it has today? But let's just say you forgot. Secondly, does Mr Papapas and other special service need to be given to other officials, with EUR 144,000 per year, to support the communication of the government's achievements in the field of refugee policy? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll be in my time. Thank you. Here really only one word is worth it: 'Great'. Mercy! And you do it like that and you don't want to hide. I think that from now on things take a form of authoritarianism that catalyses any quality and parliamentary legislation, but also the work that the Ministries must do. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u379	Be well. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u380	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to address the Ministers of Government SYRIZA - ANEL, but also the government MPs. And I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that you have received a country that has been in decline and in the last fifteen months you have been able to do so. The country is pulling away! And if you haven't understood the reason, it's obvious in front of us. While you still have not implemented the third Memorandum, the well-known Tsipras - Kammenos Memorandum, you are already discussing the fourth Memorandum of Understanding, namely new taxes, new increases in insurance contributions, new pension cuts, new product accuracy. And all this in an extra packet of 3.5 billion euros plus 5.5 billion euros, with which you have already won the Greek people for taxes, measures and charges. It seems that you Government MPs - and I am referring above all to you - have learned nothing, but nothing from last year's 'Varoufakada'! You started to say election last September, that in October the rating will be over and we've reached almost May! You were telling us about the political negotiation and we saw how it worked last year! And in order to understand the impact of the Prime Minister's political displacement abroad, Tsipras' meeting with Olad was not reportedly covered by any, but any French form or site. But not one guy was found to write that Olad met Mr. Tsipras? But not one? Thirdly, I come to what you did. What? There was a leak in WikiLeaks with the IMF officials' dialogues. Yes, sir! You did not, of course, deal with it on that occasion of intercept! Seven hundred meters separate Hilton from the Maximos Mansion - a straight line is - the Prime Minister's Office, while parallel to the American Embassy! And you say, "It's okay. There was an intercept. We did not make it, the Greek side, and let us be pleased with what was revealed." I, of course, cannot believe that Greek made this intercept and leakage. If it was Greek, it should be - and it is! - Great vex! It has enabled the IMF and the European Union to become a fist and now you are trying to get away with communication tricks from the harsh reality of the fourth memorial coming. And all this while the "heavy cow" of the Greek political scene, called the public, is grazing a meridian in the meadows. Will anyone answer us for the hundreds of seventy-eight lost Atlantis in public, namely for public bodies, which, while they receive money from the general government, do not account for accountability, do we not know how many employees have and what is their work? How do you tolerate this? At the same time, you're giving more signs of writing. You have brought, and after the outcry, this disgraceful provision on the pensions of the ministers. First time on the left! This is the first time civil discrimination! Whoever legislates for himself...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u381	We didn't bring an order!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u382	Mr. Katrugalos withdrew today! Anyone who legislates for themselves is a tyrant in the interpretation of other citizens and at the expense of other citizens is a tyrant. He's not a democrat!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u383	You have no idea what you're talking about! It's not about us! You're indiscreet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u384	It's all right with you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u385	It's not about us! You're indiscreet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u386	But that's not true! There's no Minister in there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u387	Mr. Barkas, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u388	What do you think? Mr. Katrugalos, in insurance, separated pensions from those elected MPs who had received the parliamentary pension until 2012. You don't know that? You'll find out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u389	Who are they? Why don't you tell them? You're indiscreet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u390	There's nothing you're talking about! It's a lie! It's not true!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u391	We're losing opportunities!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u392	Mr. Famelle, you're going to succeed your colleague in Step after!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u393	I wish I could see your racing now that VAT goes to 24%! Where's Mr. Kammenos? Still quit?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u394	You always see her!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u395	I wish I could see your racing when you cut pensions. To see your racing now that the fourth memorial comes. That's where I'd see you. [[Applause from the river wing]] Otherwise, 'other words to be loved'! We are missing opportunities, ladies and gentlemen! Cyprus announced in the first quarter of the year, 2016, increase of visitors - tourists by 30%. Do you know how much? Plus 5% more and more! With the border closed around us, what are you waiting for? However, there were opportunities. North Africa is isolated. Turkey doesn't stand a soul! However, you do not have the possibility of a simple planning to do for the country's comparative advantages. To conclude, despite the holidays, I would like to refer to this ministerial amendment by Mr Pappas. A Special Communications Service for Refugee and Migration Policy is set up at a cost of EUR 114,000 per year for fees, advisers and partners. I ask you: why did you then vote on Rule 25 of the Rules of Procedure? 4339 on national communication policy - in October, here, seven, eight months ago, you voted for it - where the National Communication Policy Council was set up with a centralised management of communication crises? Who do you want to take care of now in this new service you're doing? Who? Is it not enough for you to have the National Communication Policy Council, which you themselves voted on? Why don't you turn it on? Because, once again, you are also indisputable and lazy and irresponsible. That's why!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u396	Finish, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u397	I shall conclude, Mr President, with a word. Minister, I would like to say a word about Article 46, on bio-engineers. You do not put a clear separation and spatial and time for purchases with conventional products and organics. Support the Greek bio-engineer. Support primary production.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u398	It's over and over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u399	Support the Greek who is trying to attempt with a state and a government against him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, too. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u401	Is that your political reason? That we're lazy and uninhabited?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u402	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not get carried away in the "Maria Antoinette to Parliament", since today is a very important and serious day. Today, forty-nine years ago, the most black chapter of modern Greece began to be written. Today we remember and honor the officials, the people, the women and the men of Greeks who gave the struggle for democracy, popular sovereignty and human dignity during the junta period. And we want to say that these struggles are going on for us. They continue today when racism, xenophobia and nationalism are spreading into Europe, and where the nostalgics of the hunger barbarism want and claim to raise their heads in our country as well. The enemies of democracy within the neonazi structure. We know that the people have memory and they will be pushed back to the margin again. And we, all the MPs of SYRIZA, put our powers and ourselves first and foremost in the battle of democracy. I must, despite having a very important bill, begin my position by commenting on the positions and parliamentary representatives of the other parties. And I'm going to start by our dear colleague of Officerial Response. Mr Colleague, I heard your opinion yesterday on the amendments. However, I must remind you that the amendments which have entered this bill are timely. In other words, they were not submitted at 2:30 an hour to memorize the bankers who gave loans to your parties, as you used to do. This change, probably, you can't get used to. So we Members who have a democratic right under the Rules of Procedure, and we will not question it, I told you yesterday, your parliamentary history must remind you of this - have put amendments to specific issues which benefit our country. And I would like to say a few things about the issues you have put in. So we have asked that the non-legislative residents in our country should also be able to pay for it, that is to say, something that all farmers and, indeed, those who are more than abundant in the region's number and are not covered. No more. No, that's an unlimited number. So this is something that all farmers, who contribute to the income and costs books of farmers and reduces their taxable income, which legalises and gives income to the insurance funds and the state, which combats uninsured work and does not allow for 'Fresh and blood'. That is what you do not want to do in Greece. You want uninsured work to remain, to be empty the state funds, to have no control over who works where the farmers pay tax. The time will come for you to take a position to vote, Mr Brutsi. Then we'll judge you. But the farmers, who are universally asking for it, will judge you, because at the meeting with the Prime Minister, the farmers asked for it, and we committed ourselves to it. And I will not stay in the rest, in the cave you have done, because there will be a Secretariat for Information on the Refugee, and it already exists. Because so far you have accused us of not being tuned together. Now that there is an inter-institutional body and has a representative who talks with society and informs the media, you want it to be abolished. Eventually, do you want the government coordinated or without representation and speech? You want her out loud. That's what I think you're trying to do. And I'm not just talking about the cleaners. The cleaners, what's the problem? That we want the cleaners to be in the hospitals and in the public bodies and not the contractors. Do you mind that, too? Do you want it to be just the contractors? Are these annoying you in our amendments? But do you know why you are referring only to the amendments? Have other colleagues referred to the opposition? Because you do not want and dare not refer to the cooperatives. For this reason alone, thirteen Members of the New Democracy - if possible! - They dared to take the floor. Only thirteen have been included in this list. Why would they talk? About the corruption orgy maintained by their own party officers? Even the report by the Economic and Social Committee speaks of the partisanism that you have created in cooperatives in recent years, you and your partners, of course, in the Memorandum Governments, New Democracy and PASOK. So for the orgy of corruption, you didn't dare say anything about your own children. In your speech, we wanted you to say something about cooperatives, about the 3 billion debts and the 600 million debts, which we are asked for and which have been blamed on us by the European Union. Is that what anyone's gonna talk about? But do you know why the Opposition, unfortunately, remains in lies and fantasies? Unfortunately, this concludes the scenario that Mr Mitsotakis presented to the House yesterday. A dangerous and appalling position, a terrorist position, a hard right-wing New Democracy, which gives way to black days in the dark ideas on the part of the Anti-Population, which was very much invoked as Chief by liberal ideas. Of course, the state of Mr. Mitsotakis at the Ministry of Administrative Reform was aware of it, his liberal view of the functioning of the public administration and the sovereignty. Who was she? To caratize, in one night, all the rated directors of all ministries and put in his own ministry his last score, one who did not apply and one who had disciplinary misconduct. That's decency and liberal conception. However, these extremes, which, unfortunately, you are emiting, are addressed to a conservative audience, to the far right audience and to the Georgiadis component, which you fear will not leave the new Baltaku-Karazafire party. But ignorance of the terms 'democracy' and 'progress' is much more important than your own differences, which we have nothing to do with it. We will leave you alone to solve these important problems. However, we are taking lessons from the multiple positions of former officials of the Departure Officer, who are denounced for the democratic manipulations, denouncing for eight hundred extra attendants in New Democracy, from the deletion of the Presidents of Youth, from a conference that ended without elections...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u404	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u405	Why are all these messages giving us? They're giving us messages at the political level. We must be careful, because people who do not have a sense of democracy or within their area, and much more we cannot give them the right to intervene, to reduce the democracy we claim for Greece, for all Greek citizens. And do you know where this view of the hard right turn in the New Democracy is? In his interview at 'Washington Post' the Chief of Officer' said clearly: Come and get the public property. He's got very good prices. And it is based on the pressures of the International Monetary Fund, both on labour and on structural changes. In other words, the New Democracy wants a feared citizen, a rightless worker. He wants a submarine citizen in the power system. Because order and security for the New Democracy means "believed and unresearched" for the 'SIEMENS' scandal, for example. We do not want this citizen in modern Greece. We want an active citizen, who claims, because we are in agreement with Europe and contrary to what, for example, Mr Verber of the European People's Party, for example, says. At the moment, in fact, our country has been giving us a very difficult battle, a battle that must be won for the benefit of the Greeks and is taking place in a continuous negotiation for several months. But we have good news which is not heard by other opposition parties either. Mr. Amyras is gone. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm talking about his name, but he just left. This is the assessment of the parliamentary procedure that some representatives of the Greeks have. Mr Juncker said that there is no need for other measures for Greece and that it is not an end to the satisfaction of the International Monetary Fund. I don't know if you heard it from the media. At the same time, the Commission said that it does not propose emergency measures and supports Eurostat, which Eurostat revealed that in 2015 we have a primary surplus of 0.7%, i.e. 1.6 billion more, which remains with the Greeks, remains here for negotiation, for fewer measures. Really, why didn't they refer to them and fill us with a pseudo all the time? At the same time, the ESM is considering options to alleviate the Greek debt. But Mrs Lagard also said that the wounds of 2008 and 2009 were not healed. It was a mistake, in other words, the programmes that you implemented and you literally bent against the lenders in order to implement them. The country has a right to development. This is reflected in the Bank of Greece's figures announced yesterday, according to which there is more than double the cash surplus in February 2,85 billion compared with 1.2 billion in 2015. Of course, everything that happened last week is well known, such as the Draghi decision on the entry of Greek banks into the quantitative relaxation programme, but also the significant surplus we now have on the basis of Eurostat's current results. That is what we are using to negotiate. There is a significant difference We have anguish to achieve, you have anguish to fail Greece. We need to resolve this key dilemma. We invite you to have common anxiety, to have Greeks succeed, not to have the government succeeded. To achieve Greeks and succeed in the primary sector. In the primary sector for us it is clear that the decision to re-establish the cooperative movement, to restore the credibility that has been damaged by the choices of the New Democracy and PASOK. One area, which suffered all the consequences of austerity, but at the same time, in cooperation with the CFP which it accepted, increased the disparities. Because big property has a place in your own neoliberal model. In our model, the cooperatives have a place. In your case, after the stockup bubble, after the wide economic growth, the cooperatives, unfortunately, have played the only role they played is to be useful for the party of the interlocutory. In the case of the Agricultural Bank, in the 5.5 billion maritime loan scandal, cooperatives were centralized and even cooperatives were in the areas of central areas of the New Democracy and PASOK. Is that left so far, ladies and gentlemen? Because you talked about the left. This anticorruption party in the cooperatives and PASPEGES? To be only 3% of gross national product? Is this a left-hand policy, which you and the PASOK colleagues have served, but also the other colleagues in the past few years? Because you accuse us of what's left. The left in practice does not seem with a reduction in funding, with a depreciation of the national advantage, but also of the local ones, with the absence of tools to regulate prices and speculation, at high costs, with low quality farmlands and the exploitation of producers by middlemen. Because that's the scene of agricultural production. That's how you all love farmers. Obviously, the desertification of the countryside, bitterness and reaction are a product of the memorial policies but also of bipartisanism over the last fifteen years in Greece. We claim on behalf of the farmers and prove this to be also in the negotiation that is now taking place. The tax arrangements - which we have chosen and claimed, and which create both duty-free and exporting the second pillar from the taxable, but also the defence of duty-free and income tax, which was not there for farmers - are the conquest of this government. And it is a conquest against lenders because it is not possible to accept measures for a problem that says'six and a half thousand cooperatives, only twenty now healthy, 3 billion debts, 600 million European Union impounds'. Should we not take action on this policy, for this problem? Should we not restore maliciousness and mismanagement? Should we not take a position on the findings of the auditors of the General Accounting Office in PASPEGES, on the lack of a procurement regulation, on the complete lack of audits of expenditure? Is it not left-wing politics that there should be transparency, parity, parity and accountable to the citizens, to the partners with lasting parties, at luxury costs as written by the newspapers? So we're going to continue the cooperative organizations? For us, our aim is a new productive and nutritional model, based on the functioning of cooperatives, and also based on a rural development programme, which has been turned back into a 'broken' by Europe and approved by our own government. It gives 7 billion and mobilises the primary sector and, of course, gives weight to the environment, climate change, the agri-food complex, the basic ecosystems and obviously innovation, networking and decentralisation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We dare and give resources to management and the region, without having party and electoral relations with anyone elected to self-government. You never dared. It was a closed ghetto, a daily all of Greece. You have never given resources to self-government you have not checked. But we believe in free participation, equal rights and democratisation of the movement. This is what we do with the new law of cooperatives, which also gives the important sense of the social economy, through another model where we have the citizen and as a cooperative, but also as a consumer. We demand that the consumer be linked to the producer. The direct connection, which gives quality control, local markets, no intermediaries, no large transport costs and no large environmental footprint. That is the different logic, the link between the producer and the consumer, which we import. And business efficiency, with hard criteria, with an action plan, with directors-general, with absolute clarity, with a clean electoral system and a democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u406	Put a perfect one, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u407	And gender equality and, of course, the greatest weight, the one co-operative part, the general assembly and democracy in the decisions. These are the principles of a different policy, a policy that the citizen says in front of, open civil policy, an active citizen with supply from the state, and only one supply, democracy. Democracy returns to the cooperative movement with SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u408	Thank you. Mrs. Gara has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u409	Mr President, I have asked for the floor on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u410	Personal, Mr. Brutsi? In this sense, as far as...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u411	Mr President, I have asked for the floor on personal grounds too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u412	There's no staff. It's a political matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u413	Excuse me. Mr. Brutsi, you have a dentistry. We have an extensive list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u414	I have a dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u415	Take it after the end of the speakers. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u416	Is there any staff? It's only personal if the New Democracy is a person. That's funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u417	I am a parliamentarian, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u418	Wait a minute, Mr. Brutsi. What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u419	Then I have staff too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u420	It'll take the time of Mr. Brutsi's dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u421	I would also like to speak on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u422	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u423	He mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u424	For a minute, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u425	He said Mr Famellos, my dear colleague, that I do not honour - the parliamentary procedure, because after seven - eight hours I am in the Chamber - what should I do? - the need for me to go to the bathroom rather than listen to Mr. Famelos, because he is not famous for these nice things he can say to keep me here. I would like to say, however, that it does not honour the parliamentary procedure, Mr Famele, your Government, which does not answer our questions, your ministers who do not appear in the timely questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u426	That's not personal now. The staff have exhausted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u427	...and you, MPs and ministers, who bring amendments -'rain', while at the same time drink coffee in the canister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u428	Mr. Amyras, you've exhausted the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u429	A lot of coffees drink in the candlestick. Spend more time in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u430	Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u431	Mr. President, how many minutes do I have for my dentistry? Three minutes. Can I get them now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u432	I'd say you could get them in the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u433	Can I get them now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u434	You know, colleagues are waiting to speak. That's what I'm saying. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u435	I don't think for three minutes there's a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u436	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u437	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have just heard the majority parliamentary spokesman speak on matters which I consider to be very serious and which I am obliged to answer. Firstly, on the question of Members' amendments, no one has said that Members should have the right to table amendments. There is, however, a major issue. The Members' amendments are unconscious and the 'caité' of the parliamentary amendments has taken a huge amount of SYRIZA days, that is, a game is being set up. What they want to pass unspeakable in the pocket of the Greek people, the taxpayer, the retired person, to satisfy the rumours, is passed by parliamentary amendments. That is what I said, and I said that it would be a good thing to deal with it. The second is that there are also parliamentary or ministerial amendments, such as those of Mr Polakis, Mr Papapas - unacceptable - but there are others which have national implications. Mr President, I am referring to the very serious amendment which also has a personal objection to my face, as it came to me, because I served the Ministry of Labour for two and a half years, housed and reformed intact, gathered things and in the escape and black work - you know, no one disputed it - but I did not give in to pressure on the bachelor of illegal immigrants, because pressure was exerted today and also by SYRIZA. I say, Mr President, that you are doing a great deal of national damage as a government. See the results in the country with the tens of thousands of immigrants and refugees you have brought with your policy, the so-called policy of internationalisation, the open borders. Today, without the Greek people knowing this, with the amendment brought by members of the SYRIZA, they are opening up the lacunae of illegal third countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u438	You can't do that. There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u439	That, Mr President, is a dangerous national for the country. You're dangerous. I would point out the big issue that arises because it is very serious national ones and you are now opening up 'black' work and uninsured work and you are opening roads which lead to legalisation. We'll find these in front of us very soon. Keep my speech and my point. It's dangerous if you vote. On the issue of the New Democracy, it is unprecedented that SYRIZA should now come and resign the New Democracy for its domestics. This process and this logic are unprecedented. Do you have a place for our interiors? But I understand what it is for. It is clearly because you are now lonely in society. Society has turned your back. The polls show the demolition of SYRIZA, its isolation. Feeling anxious to touch somewhere. You feel isolated and you have to say something. But you must look too high to talk about the New Democracy, this historic party that has deep roots in society through democratic processes. You're too young to say about the New Democracy, gentlemen of SYRIZA. But polls seem to be your problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u441	I beg your pardon, Mr President, but the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative reiterates what Mr Kefaloyannis said to the European Parliament and to your Members. So you're implying that we're going to legalise all economic immigrants. That's what you've been distributing to Greek society. The amendment clearly stresses that the need for these people must first be addressed. This needs to be addressed at the request of the farmers themselves and, through procedures involving regional selfgovernment, they are all under control. Why do you want to perpetuate a situation which creates a problem for farmers themselves? There's a need for these people...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u442	There's a bachelor. You will not solve it against Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u443	Listen. We are talking about a bachelor in the rural area, a bachelor who will offer the OGA as well. It'll offer in general, I'd say, rural space. The space wants its own mistress. That was our intervention. But above all I cannot tell you that these people, who are involved in these work, have democratic rights. They have the right in that country to claim equal treatment with all other workers. Can't you take that into consideration?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u444	Now you've said it right. Legalisation of all the illegal activities of third countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u445	That's the difference we have. Our perception that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u446	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u447	Then. You have a dentistry. Mrs. Gara has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u448	And after the arguments and disagreement on an amendment to the brevity of immigrants, I would point out that fascism does not come from the future. In memory of both that day and the remnants that he leaves to today. To go back to the bill, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, once again, we are called on in this Chamber to discuss, but also to legislate on values and practices, particularly important and dynamic, but which have been devoid of the main responsibility of the political system. The depreciation of the cooperative has specific causes and the responsibilities for this degeneration are equally borne by the PASOK but also by the New Democracy. With their tolerance, the cover-up of irregularities, the partitioning and voting practices of customers gained strong foundations in the cooperative space, thus creating alliances that resisted any thought of resolution. The cooperatives became party shops with no reasonable isotope or interest in their members. I was very impressed by the criticism of the Antipopulation, the violation and trespass of cooperative authorities by us. I really have had the reasonable questions about where these voices were hiding, when the antiquated business co-operation legislation was trespassing on the principle of democracy over the last time. When opaque and often corrupt business activities went beyond cooperative autonomy, providing funds from external sources. When the logic of subsidies and, in particular, of illegal European Community grants were shared without any appallingly serving party and political purposes. What else? Ladies and gentlemen, we are at an economic and social turning point in the country, after decades of splendid prosperity and incredible immunity. In my view, at the moment in time, cooperatives can play a particularly important role both in the organisation of rural space and in its development, in strengthening labour and production, but also in the overall organisation and development of small local societies. Cooperatives are an economic system with social content. From the economic point of view, cooperatives make use of negotiating power and economies of scale. In the context of rural co-operatives, small farms are becoming large and strong, in the context of solidarity and cooperation. From a social point of view, now, the role of cooperatives is just as important. It introduces democratic processes into economic life, distributes benefits to those who create them, introduces the superiority of man against capital, ensures for the social environment and the environment. Also, as I said before, cooperatives can play an essential role in the development of local societies and in the organisation of the rural community as a whole. Let us remember the value and function of rural grocery stores in our villages and also think about how many parallel actions at economic, social and cultural level a cooperative, namely collectiveity, can offer in a village. Of course, women's cooperatives, an institution that encourages women to deal with business, work, create, become socially renowned and maintains our rich local tradition, culture, the history of each community, but also high quality products. But that is what I would particularly like to dwell on. It is the field of work. We have recently observed that many young people and young people are returning to work with the rural area. Most of them are scientists with highly specialized knowledge. And I firmly believe that cooperatives are the place that can give work, but also make productive use of all these new scientists to produce high-quality products through modern productive structures. After all, the slogan we have repeated many times is: 'Nobody alone in the crisis'. And the cooperative can give opportunities and impetus to young people with knowledge, but they lack competitive economic capital. Examples of healthy modern cooperatives, after all, have seen all of us, such as the Garlic Cooperatives of Vessa and Cave, in crops that are not subsidized, because some insist on that model. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason why we brought this bill is mainly because we want to create strong rural economic operators at last. I agree that there can be no question of a bill which can only solve accumulated problems of the cooperative in the country, but we must admit that it is a draft law structured in the principles of the social economy, which can be a way out of the current difficult economic situation, where increased production costs limit profit margins. It is our duty, therefore, to create a substantial legal framework that will give producers the confidence to frame, participate and control their own cooperatives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would just like to mention the words of a farmer, who, in commenting on PASPEGES, has said it all: "In recent years PASPEGES has been nonexistent, it has not covered us in anything, only the farmers have paid, but no benefits have been seen from this tertiary body. We want an instrument dealing with the farmer, with his hardship, to have an intervention mechanism for prices, so that there are no ones who will be emptied of the farmer's trouble. Such an instrument would also result from real farmers and not from lawyers or opportunistic farmers. It must become a deep incision, there must be the trade union body, but take into account the voice of the farmer." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u449	Thank you. Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u450	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill summarizes the dramatic situation that citizens experience after more than a year of disastrous governance of SYRIZA - ANEL. Once again, in the words of promises of radical change, but in practice, regulations that give rise to intense partyism, which change without justification, with others being in the consultation of the bill about five months ago, others now come back to change after the outcry they encountered from almost all the bodies. The draft law, like the government: the sloppy, clientele and mainly inefficient, will not solve any of the cooperative problems. Today, of the thousands of cooperatives operating in our country, only about twenty are economically viable, and I do not know whether they will be able to survive too. Cooperatives say so themselves, we don't. Do you think that only we, the Potami, point to the problems, or only the Vice-Population MPs? In addition to the large majority of the bodies, I would like to tell you what further Members of Parliament have pointed out at the committee meeting: "I think that State intervention combined with partyisation has led and sometimes imposed exorbitant lending, opacity and finally immunity. And finally it was this state supervision that denounced co-operation. Therefore, the general spirit of suffocating control of cooperatives by the Ministry's services, as well as the detailed guidelines and forecasts for everything in my opinion is wrong in this bill. Agricultural cooperatives are operating in a competitive environment together with many other entities and economic, institutional and operational rules should, in my opinion, be common." The Member told you this. What more can we say? Of course, alas, once again amendments, twenty-two parliamentarians, five ministerial representatives for a number of unrelated issues, such as health issues in the form of a whole bill. Every day Parliament's disdained by the government's majority. Every day and below in parliamentary practice. But let me return for a few brief remarks to the bill. It has first been drawn up contrary to the globally established cooperative principles, voluntary cooperation, non-state intervention and aims at a large part of its provisions in the dismantling of cooperatives either by acts or by omissions. It increases in particular the number of founding members of cooperatives from a minimum of ten to establish it in consultation, in thirty to the plan that came to Parliament, which took place after the outcry by the institutions. In Europe, however, there is nowhere for a limit of twenty people. The lowest is nine, ten. In some countries it is less. And this is a derogation from Europe. The draft law defends cooperative autonomy in the report, while abolishing it in its provisions. In particular, it imposes on the cooperative when he will hire a Director-General. It shall prohibit the members of the Board of Directors from being elected for more than two terms. It imposes a party conscientious electoral system, and it should be a general principle that should be to elect the best. It depends on the existence of the cooperative from the toy, which means that a small cooperative, which operates legally and serves its members if it has less than twenty members and a turnover of less than 100.00 euros, will be dissolved. It is well wondered: did the authors know what a cooperative is? It is also requested by the cooperatives, in order to register, to draw up business plan, which means an obstacle to the establishment of new cooperatives. But the business plan is not even required by the General Commercial Register for Anonymous Companies. It is obvious that such provisions are made when authors improvise, since international experience and the multitude of valid studies leave them indifferent. In addition, cooperation between cooperatives is abolished, when today cooperatives worldwide have extended their activities to the establishment of cooperative groups in the form of capital companies, which can have access to the financial market. However, all this contrasts entirely with the attempt by the draft law to create large cooperatives. The major cooperatives are built by the members who realize the need for their voluntary accession to the institution, they are not enforced by law. The law is bound to give all the required tools that cooperatives need to use. This is where everything is missing, with investment and tax tools more importantly. Remove the highest ideological and reasoning expression of cooperatives, PASPEGES. Yes, there were problems - and we recognize it - with the third-level trade union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for a minute, please. However, the disagreements with administrations cannot lead to the abolition of institutions, nor should legislation be made in terms of empathy. I would like to highlight the provision that cooperatives finance the establishment of a Education Fund. The cooperatives, however, have the Cooperative School of Thessaloniki, for which state resources have been invested, in order to be used for this purpose. Again, listen to what your Member said in her honour: "As far as cooperative education is concerned, I think it is a very serious and sinful case in the past to continue experimentation. The fragmentation of the Ministry's services in such a small country serves nothing. On the contrary, the target is lost more easily. I believe that the development and upgrading of the structures and infrastructure of the “PIMITRA” Agency is the most appropriate solution. We did not discuss the deepest causes of cooperative bankruptcy." Your MPs say it, not just us anymore. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] I conclude by saying: Instead of bringing in a bill with specific investment and tax incentives for the development of cooperatives - because you know how the organisations that contribute to the common good of local societies, especially at the time of the crisis that we are living - you brought in an upbringing of old provisions, enriched with your own ideas. I've told you before, and I'm closing up with this. The citizens, even those who voted for you, have all realised this. It's time to go! Therefore, do not burden our people with provisions that are inapplicable. Close the review and then go to elections to get rid of this catastrophic government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u451	Mr Kokalis agreed to speak two more Members and then he will speak as a parliamentary representative, the last person left to speak. So Mr. Giolas Ioannis should come to Step and then Mr. Ilias Kamaro. Here, Mr. Giola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is regrettable that the disappointment of the cooperatives had arisen. The institution of the cooperative movement has been devalued, as a result of the wrong strategies and political choices that have been made for many decades. The mismanagement, political intervention and their use to serve opaque purposes and interests led to almost all cooperatives in full depreciation and overcompensation. Two key areas, in addition to which we should have and should have intervened, are the internal democratic functioning of cooperatives, the supervision and control of their management and economic progress. To remove the first malfunction, this draft law recommends the democratic structure of the institutions of agricultural cooperatives. The General Assembly and the Administrative Councils shall be convened and convened at regular intervals. The election system for members of the Board is absolutely democratic. It gives the right to genuine representation with the single voter and to the crusade in 1/3 of the number of members of the Board. This is how excellent and avoiding groupings are now elected, which often hide interests. In order to carry out effective and formal control of the management and control of the economics of agricultural cooperatives, we have the establishment of Article 22, which provides for an action programme for the next year, of course accompanied by a revenue and expenditure budget, which is submitted for approval annually by the general assembly. We also have the compulsory publication of financial statements on the website of the agricultural cooperative, as well as at the Ministry, twenty days before the convergence of the annual regular general assembly. Thus, there is also official control by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but above all we have transparency in the way and the necessary social control, since all the information to the partners, who know better than anyone else, are able to effectively control the administration of the agricultural cooperative. In the context of this effort to ensure the healthy functioning of agricultural cooperatives and rural development, it is key to exploiting the real estate of the public. The establishment of the DIAG, the Real Equilibrium Management Agency, which I wanted to say a lot about, is well known, but I will address topical issues in particular. I am going to stay at the DIAGE for a while, which is essential as an institution, first of all, to safeguard imprisoned public property amounting to hundreds of thousands of acres, to give impetus to the use and harvesting of large land to young farmers, to unemployed people, to cooperatives, to make the necessary move and to take agriculture, this necessary primary sector. However, I would like to return to the subject of the amendment which is being introduced to the so-called date of vote. First of all, it is known that the Prime Minister has recently been a proclamation, after demanding all farmers. I was, therefore, very surprised at the fact that the representatives of the Officerial Representation have been placed, but a product of time has been indignant. For they insist that they do not give the guarantees, that they do not give the assurance, that they do not give the way of safeguarding the workers of the land of these people who live like mice literally in stables and bars. That's the first, the humanitarian. At the same time, however, the OGA will also be able to increase its insurance contributions. Finally, farmers themselves will be able to measure the costly costs of land workers, so that they can include them in their declarations and have the necessary exemptions. So the New Democracy - and I do not know if there are any other opposition parties - should say to us: Who will grow and who will collect grapes and apricots in Corinthia? Who's gonna collect strawberries in Elias? Who will grow oranges and horticulture in Argold and Laconia? How will the peaches be collected in Imathia, kiwi and cherries in Pella and the olives in half, at least, Greece? So answer that, ladies and gentlemen, and then come and move your hand clearly against us. We will take care of the agricultural cooperative, give the necessary impetus and with the democratic necessary functions, which will restore to the tertiary level which they will be able to set up, so that the primary sector can also be founded and have the much-conscious productive reconstruction in this sector as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, Mr. Giola. Mr. Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u454	Ladies and gentlemen, we are all tired, and I will see that I do not repeat what has been said. Most of them said. Very glare, Nikos Papadopoulos, as a genuine expressioner of the world of agriculture, described the immunity that existed so far, the deterioration of agricultural cooperatives, the degeneration and the need for this bill to restore this concept and the role of cooperatives in farmers, who so much need it. Especially on our islands, it will help farmers very much. There is a rural economy, no matter how much we want to call it tourist destinations only. We have many problems and it will help them too much to try, to have power to negotiate and to channel their products and to hotels, which now have honey from China or oil from Italy or Spain and others, and our own producers do not know what to do with them. Of course, the creation of cooperatives alone cannot solve all these problems. There is a need for parallel measures, and that is why we are trying, through various ministries, to have coordination to take measures for islands and in this area, beyond the general ones, so that they can be helped in this direction. I will focus on fisheries, which has been a lot of talk about in the committees, and finally the Minister has been forced, because there were different opinions, to withdraw Article 43. That, in my opinion, is not very positive. Because if we read the explanatory statement in Article 43, Mr Minister, it is described very thoroughly and quite rightly the need to introduce rules on amateur fishing, which creates so many problems for professional fishermen. So, at some point, these rules must come in. First of all, let's take account of the fact that not all amateur fishermen are the same. Another is the recreational fishing carried out in the case of hunting, and more is amateur fishing, with vessels which are more equipped than fishermen, which create problems and trade with professional fishermen. I am therefore committed to the commitment of the Minister - and the committees have said - that this will be considered and that, through a consultation, a more comprehensive fisheries plan in general, which we need. But be careful here, Minister, if we are to make this mistake and if I am wrong, correct me. Article 43 had entered - and, in my opinion, as originally entered - Article 51, the last word on'repealed provisions, etc.'. It is precisely because Article 43 entered Article 51, which abolishes provisions of Law 373/1985, which laid down certain rules, certain restrictions on amateur fishing, the granting of licences, etc. If we leave this, that is to say, if this provision of Law 373/1985 is repealed, and Article 43, then there will be an uncontrolled situation, a great gap in the issue of amateur fishing. And I conclude with one comment on the amendment that has been made to the beaches. We have tabled an amendment to extend the Joint Ministerial Decision on the use of TAT beaches. It is very positive and necessary after the decision of the Council of State, which has not given us the opportunity to do so. But that's not good enough. There are still too many problems. And I do not know whether we should put aside the extension of the FYROM and the necessary amendments, so that the preferential regime can be restored to the businesses in front of them - which is not there now - and also economic issues, because there have been huge increases in what is given to the coastline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u455	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u456	What do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u457	A minute's clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u458	Okay, wait a minute. I won't give you any more. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u459	I didn't withdraw this article. It just wasn't voted by a majority, so it didn't come to committee. Now, from there on, fishing issues are certainly issues that we are planning in time and in consultation with all of you to deal with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u460	What about the abolished provision, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u461	We'll see about all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u462	Let's look at both the sea and the islands, Mr. Kamaterre. Don't just be bells and mountains. Isn't that right? Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way in which this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and four attendants of Dutch School teachers. The House welcomes them. We welcome you to the Greek parliament. We welcome you to Athens and we are serving for your friends. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Cocksucker has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to vote on a bill relating to the rural area, which has to do with the cooperative movement. The report by Mr Lazarides - and in detail - has been made by Mr Lazarides. You will allow me to refer more generally to the philosophy of the bill and to the problems of rural areas. Is there anyone in Ethiopia who believes that the cooperatives in Greece, as they have operated, did not create debts alone? Is there anyone who believes that the cooperatives no longer served the purposes for which they were set up? Is there anyone in the Hall who believes that sinful cooperatives have produced work in favour of the rural world? Is there anyone in this Chamber who believes that the majority of agricultural cooperatives or associations of agricultural cooperatives were cooperatives - seal? I think it doesn't exist. So the government comes and tries to put a class in the cooperative movement. On the contrary, however, we have a sterile refusal without justification, just for the opposition. Finally, we have to understand that this country will come out of the crisis responsibly. This country wants to reach agreement. Mr Brutsis is missing to remind him of the circular he sent to OPEKEPE as Minister of Labour, according to which he could confiscate agricultural subsidies. On 29 August 2014, the Minister of Labour, Mr Brutsis, and now a Parliamentary Representative, sent it under number 29212/2081/29-8-2014 a circular ordering the OGA to seize agricultural subsidies to offset farmers' debts. Obviously it is the position of the New Democracy that was also expressed by the President, Mr Mitsotakis, not to support the small- and medium-sized farmers. Because it is certainly the small farmer who owes the ELGA, it also owes the tax. Of course, then we had a storm of reactions. And in honor of them, the fourteen New Democracy MPs with a timely call for the circular to be taken back, which, of course, did not. I'm coming to the bachelor's. One of the requests of the blocks was the bachelor. Farmers got out on the streets a couple of months ago, they fought. Some of their demands have been met. What's a bachelor? Does it benefit farmers, does it benefit the insurance fund? The aim of the bachelor is to make it easier for farmers to fulfil the socio-security obligation, the obligation to pay wages to irregularly resident foreign land workers and can at the same time justify such expenditure as an operating exit of their business. In particular, a procedure shall be laid down in which, in the absence of exhaustion of the numerical limits of post-mortem land workers, the farmer invokes an objective impossibility for the employment of land workers under valid contracts and is entitled to request an exemption from employment. Question: Are irregularly resident foreigners involved in farmers? Thousands of farmers see us. Yes or no? Is this provision to the benefit of farmers? Oh, no. Mr. Manolis Kefaliannis along with Mr. Apostolos Vesyropoulos and Mr. Georgios Kasapidis, in a press release, say that the bachelor is not the legalisation passport or the invitation for illegal immigrants. A man speaks to you, who does not have a particular warmth with illegal immigrants, but we cannot close our eyes. In our rural areas, they work illegally foreigners, yes or no? It is therefore for the benefit of the farmers themselves, but also of the insurance funds. This government over a year has to fight with too many problems, which it certainly did not create. And that is what farmers have understood and they need to know. Because with loan money we can no longer operate. You know, the great crime of the party called PASOK is that he put on the market, threw fake dreams and loan money into society. In 2009, the government, in order to break up the roadblocks, shared 500 million euros which the entire Greek people are now required to pay for. The same practice and the same tactic did the government have to implement, give loan money, give false hopes, give fruitfruits hopes, borrowers and unscrupulously? No, the government told the truth. What did this government receive? He has received an OPEKEPE for which, due to the mismanagement of all these years, farmers and farmers should know this - the Director-General for Agriculture and Rural Development of the European Commission calls on us to turn the aid back. It is my view that I read and will present: 'I would like to invite you once again' - it is addressed to the Greek authorities and is in 2015 the document - 'to implement the decisions to recover aid'. Who gave insane backup? Who gave illegal subsidies? Who handled the grazing matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u464	They've all been paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u465	Are you gonna tell me, now is everything okay? No, Minister, it is not because the rights have now come out with quite a number of mistakes, which we must correct. When we say payment on 15 March, we must mean it and not on 20th. At least, to explain to the rural world why this delay is due. Ladies and gentlemen, a convincing counterpart to the non-vote of this bill does not exist. There is no, although the opposition had to show a attitude of responsibility, a nationally responsible attitude, which would lead the country out of the crisis. This project for cooperatives is trying to clarify the landscape in terms of the current state of cooperatives and, on the other hand, to create a serious starting-point for the creation of sound collective business units. As I said before, a feature of the current world situation is that of six and a half thousand registered cooperatives, only the thousands operate and the remaining five thousand are actually inactive. Ladies and gentlemen, those who have stolen must turn the stolen goods back and must go to jail. And there are too many of them in the cooperative movement, but - and Mr Minister, I am addressing you - we need to see at some point that, along with the dry and the green. They cannot have on an administrative board association of agricultural cooperatives - in which there were ten management councils - all the same responsibility. They can't. If the responsibility lies, whoever it is to go to jail and give the money back. We also need to see the question of workers in associations of agricultural cooperatives. Unfortunately, the Code of Civil Procedure does not have the privilege of the public or banks in meeting the requirements. In view of all this, we invite you to vote on the relevant draft law. The government will be near the primary sector. He has to run even faster. It must be close to farmers, correcting errors, errors for which she is not responsible. It must be close to farmers' payments and we hope that it will clear up the landscape soon. It has already started with the register of farmers, with the main farmer. The aim and purpose of the present Government is to support, in the first instance, the main and permanent occupation of a farmer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u466	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and three educational attendances from the Elementary School of Spilios Rethymno. The House welcomes them to the House and Athens. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall now proceed to the next colleague, who is Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis. Immediately afterwards is Mrs. Chryssavria Katsavria. I see that Mrs Papacosta is absent, so if she does not come by then the next colleague, Mrs Arabatzi, will take the floor. Mr. Dimitriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u467	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, two factors define the necessity of this bill. The first concerns the need for the country's productive reconstruction and, therefore, agricultural production. The second concerns the need to restructure a collapsed system of organization of the rural area itself. In no strange way, for both parties, it is responsible for the same cause. Corruption, complexity, customer relationships and by them the submission. In direct contrast to any concept of economic efficiency in the service of social needs, productive reconstruction in the rural area requires, firstly, a change of objectives and, secondly, a change of models. Agricultural production must return to its familiar advantages, to its natural environment and to its same dynamic growth. And this is achieved by functional and robust tools of economic and social organization, such as those that are trying to introduce this bill for cooperatives. It is enough to describe the disastrous situation that the organizations in the area are currently facing. Of the six and a half thousand cooperatives, the hundred thirty-seven associations, the hundred anonymous corporations, the hundred central organizations only the twenty are economically viable, and then the other fifty-five that we could help. We must also add the 3 billion debts, when the whole of the rural area is about 950 million. We need to find the 100 million of the Cocoa package and the 500 million of the Koskina-Morai package, a cynamic problem, which the policies of previous governments have accumulated, with nothing to solve, always adding another burden, never to solve anything at all. This deliberate act of subjection to different interests always appeared as a successful growth platform. Even today, when harsh reality has become aware of the inadequacy, hypocrisy and submissiveness of previous government, there is an unexplained perseverance in the same narrative - in other words - that bad governance has interrupted us, as if nothing had happened, as if it hadn't been one day since they lost power. But we, as a result of the recent folk mandate, do what it takes to change the landscape. We propose and legislate a new regulatory framework for companies, producer groups and the rural economy. We want strong agricultural cooperatives and producer organisations to emerge in line with the international principles of cooperation. We are therefore making use of the nationally and Europeanly tested method of the register, which is a key tool for the recording and evaluation of cooperatives. We are recommending a legal person of a non-profit nature with the name of a Fund of Agricultural Partnerships for Education and Training. This fund restores something that has always been missing, cooperative training and education. Globalization of the economy makes business efficiency necessary as a weapon for survival, quality assurance and development. Maintenance with subsidies and privileges is the old and failed and we change it because it does not serve any development strategy. We are introducing the necessary modernism, we are changing unfair provisions and we are clarifying what is needed, that is, what is lacking in order to describe the relaunching of the rural economy. In Greek agriculture today, the well-organised and effective collective action by producers has unfortunately been replaced by a desperate individual initiative by each producer, who is trying to survive in a very competitive environment, without guidance, support and perspective. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] You will allow me here - because I see that I will have a problem with time and not to fight with the dear Mr President - to refer to Article 32 on forced cooperatives and it concerns four specific forced cooperatives that characterise four wonderful regions of our country. The first thing I want to note is that it makes me an excellent impression - thankful, otherwise - that the neoliberal opposition insists on the complicity and preservation of these cooperatives. Honestly, I'm not in a position to know, but I'm curious to see what they're doing in the international fora in terms of this support. However, I would like to note something, which I consider to be extremely important in this case. Force is a good that is given to have better results, to have goodwill in favour of many, shared among many and always for the best. It does not mean this compelling, this coercion is used by closed groups for their own interests. Whenever we have this in front of us, we must be prepared to take it down. The third is that the regulation we have made to the detriment of all those affected so far is in favour of maintaining the compulsory cooperatives that they want by decision of their general assembly or when there are no final convictions. So I close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that we are finally leaving behind the inappropriateness that has cost so many opportunities for development, at last, we are abandoning the policy of submissive that has led us through interlocutory and corruption to this end. We inaugurate the time of faith in our forces, in our place, in our peoples, in the people of labor, in the great and incomparable advantage, the Greek and Greek farmers, who have hope in the heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u468	Ladies and gentlemen, Senate Arsenis, a colleague from this Parliament, is being sworn out at this time, with the different views he had with some of us, but - in any case - no one has ever called into question his parliamentary morality. I think I can unanimously express on behalf of the House our condolences to his family and his memory eternally. Please, Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u469	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the position of Members of the New Democracy and PASOK shows the need to answer the following questions: Why is this draft law introduced, since there is a legislative framework for cooperatives? What is the main cause of the collapse of the cooperative institution, which led to today's sad image with only twenty healthy cooperatives from about a thousand left? The answer, therefore, is that the existing legislative framework is a remnant of the governments of the parties to the interlocutory, which stirs out unreliability, corruption and opaqueness, reflects the micropolitical approach of the New Democracy and PASOK, which wants the cooperatives to extend a state-owned perception and their party component. We keep what is useful and build on it for the sole purpose of creating clean cooperatives, belonging to the cooperative farmers themselves. The main cause of the collapse of the cooperatives is the absence of any control and especially since the actual abolition of the Agricultural Bank, which has until then carried out some checks. So what is it that annoys the Opposition? It is clear that they fear the uncovering of their true intentions, the loss of their ruins in the rural area and the redistribution of power by intermediaries in favour of farmers themselves. I would like here to highlight two points: The first is the emphasis of this draft law on women's cooperatives, as for the first time the possibility of strengthening the economic role of the farmer and strengthening family agricultural income. The second is that the draft law is governed and interpreted by the time values and principles of democracy and collectiveness, as reflected in the declaration of the International Cooperative Union. The International Cooperative Union is a union from every corner of the earth, from different cultures and political systems and insists on illuminate the way for farmers' future. I think it is worth mentioning the seven cooperative principles, which are the guidelines, by which cooperatives implement their values. These principles, which are interlinked and constitute one condition for the other, are: voluntary and free participation, democratic administration on the part of members, financial participation of members, autonomy and independence, education, training and information, cooperation between cooperatives and interest in the community. These principles and rules can be found in the interpretative guidelines for the cooperative principles of the Committee of Principles of the International Cooperative Union ‘Geneva 2015’. This is the answer to the ideological reports that the draft law is a tool for building a state-owned autocratic model or that it is an instrument for handing over the agricultural sector to the capitalist forces of the market. It is not possible to apply those that are counted against us at the same time by both the right and the left. The caricature of a confrontation that has once led us to 'green' and 'blue' cafes cannot be reproduced. Because this has led to corruption, bankruptcy and the co-operative idea being seized. For these very arguments have raised up the circuits of the middlemen, which the complex has protected with so much care. For that is exactly what dismantled the cooperatives, allowing some to build personal properties and make careers on the farmers' back. For that is exactly what has enabled the ideas of individualism and consumerism brought on by Cayenne to take precedence over the rural roads. Ladies and gentlemen, the prospect of extreme competition and globalisation that crushes people in the millstones of immunity requires a new vision, a new inspiration. The future of the farmer is not to be a "zetiant" in the city as well. The use of scientific and technological knowledge, the shift in quality, the linking of production to the processing and marketing of agricultural products, the adoption of modern methods of cooperation, for example the ringers, are a major potential in the hands of the coalitioned farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. To transform the weakness of many into power with catalysts of unity, the collectiveness in its cooperative and cooperative form, apart from value, is also a tool, perhaps the most powerful tool for development, democracy, solidarity and social justice. There are, Mr President - and I could quote a few successful examples from my own country, Karditsa. I will, however, take the worthy example of the Agricultural Cooperative "Petrinas" from Laconia, which was founded in 1907 by Stylianos Koutoupis, and still operates effectively, inexorably until today. I am tabling its statutes, as it is published on its website, as in many respects the spirit of today's bill is approaching it. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Chrysula Katsavria - Sioropoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Completely symptomical in the same year, in March 1907, the Sunday shot in the back of Marino Antypa and killed him. Marinos Andypas can and must inspire us today for an irresistible symbolic Killer this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u470	Ms Papakostas will be mutually transferred with Ms Arabatzi and Ms Arabatzi will speak. Here, Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the resurrection of the Greek economy, as the Prime Minister said, will unfortunately not come along with Easter. It shall be postponed and deferred indefinitely. Instead, there is the crucifixion of Greek taxpayers who will pay over 24% of the Left VAT. You should, of course, tell the citizens that the Left costs and even it costs too much. You who promised to reduce VAT, you said that burdens will no longer be paid by many people, but the rich people who do not pay, now'stick on the head' and households and the simple consumer, as 24% will bring an increase of EUR 103 million in food, travel, focus. And of course, this VAT increase was not a proposal from the lenders, but a condemnation of your proposal. So you are solely responsible for the joy that all the taxpayers will suffer in the next few weeks. And after you emptied the citizens' pockets with the increased VAT, then comes the "Body Katrugalo". You who, not only, would not reduce pensions, but would also give a thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, now attack against everything, pensioners, freelance professionals and wage earners. And I now come to the cooperative bill, what is supposed to regulate organised rural entrepreneurship. What entrepreneurship, Minister? Is there going to be rural entrepreneurship for a sample? By increasing insurance contributions to 27.2% of agricultural income and OGA in a single fund rather than an autonomous fund? By increasing the taxation of farmers from our 'bad' - against you - 13% on your own now 22% to 45%? With the taxation of agricultural subsidies - your work - from 13% to 22% up to 45%? With the increase in VAT on farmland from 13% to 24%? By imposing the excise duty on wine? By using the yoghurt milk powder, which certainly condemns Greek livestock? Do you really remember, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that we are now close to throwing the government down for the duration of the milk from five to seven days? And now you're coming and you're leveling it all. So, what are you doing in this bill, in the image and likeness of course of your ideological strangles? Do you envision agricultural cooperatives, not to increase farmers' incomes, with collaborative, privatised economic criteria, but as centres of full partyism and raw state intervention? Interventions in the cooperative elections, interventions in the ballots, crusades, general assemblies! Up to and including in their commercial operation, you are attempting with 80% of the production that cooperative farmers have to deliver to the cooperative, and the obligation to buy farmland only from the cooperative. So please make it clear, gentlemen of the government: do you want agricultural cooperatives to function as private economic initiative units or are you visioning them as state-owned Soviet-type enterprises? And as if not all of this were enough, you are bombing Parliament and with amendments once again in your best practice. One of these - and indeed a ministerial - contains the well-known logic of 'give me, a companion', and it concerns the adoption of a joint ministerial decision on the establishment of a special service - it says - a communication plan for refugee and immigration policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Yes, sir! And courageous left humor at the same time! After you have messed up immigration policy, after you have sent a signal to everyone in the previous period to come to Greece and be "salted" now you are building committees to manage the chaos that you have caused. And, of course, because you have learned the work well, that is to say to your own state money people, the committee will be set up as a special secretariat and expenditure will reach over EUR 114,000 annually. Minister, because I come from a county that is affected at the moment, boiling from follicular dermatitis, and as I am told with EUR 113 000, would the entire livestock be vaccinated, and would the need for retrospective funds of EUR 1.5 million for compensation would not result, would you not tell Mr Pappas to give this money to vaccinate the livestock and leave the immigration offices? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] So while you are cutting wages and pensions, while taxing wild incomes and businesses, will you appoint friends and acquaintances, party officials, to correct what? Are the "salted" and Mrs Christodoulou's "disappeared"? The solidaritys that perpetuate all over the territory? Can you at least tell us how many ‘Karanika’ and how many ‘Lamprus’ are you still counting to complete your party state? I now come to the second amendment, which is parliamentary, which demonstrates that tourism is also on the autopilot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u472	And hang up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u473	I'm closing, Mr. President. Completely in the 'and five', you are coming to resolve - and not with a ministerial amendment - an issue that we pointed out to you days ago as a New Democracy, as we pointed out to you and brought it by way of a delayed ministerial amendment the issue of visas from Russia, the question of the use of the country's coastal zone in view of the tourist season. Although we arrived at the end of April, the municipalities still expect the government to adopt a relevant joint ministerial decision in line with the decisions of the Council of State. So, if the OHIM comes out, the competitions should be announced, to be completed, to go to the investors. "Ask, May, to eat a clover!" which the people say. What if they lose valuable income? How much you care. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, you are dangerous for the country and when you speak and when you promise and when you legislate. I don't know if you'll be able to close the negotiating chapter. What is urgent to close is the capital of the country's governance. The sooner you leave the political scene, the better for all of us. Thank you for your understanding, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u474	Okay. Ms Maria Triantafyllou has been self-determined, while Mrs Elisabeth Scoofa, who had been self-registered, has returned. So then Mrs. Scouffa will talk. Mr. Bukouros has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u475	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, everyone has agreed in these years of crisis that the primary sector is perhaps the most critical, it is the one who can give way to the country. I do not think we offer service to Greek farmers and farmers, coming to this step in order to get our political badges out or to read our party positions. We could also all agree that, over the last few decades, the failure of the cooperative movement has been due to imperialism, to the obligation for cooperatives at other times to go to the landfills - and today, thirty to thirty-five years later, to risk with great fines - the fact that the state did not exercise, as it should, the supervisory control which the Constitution also defines, of course, and also the mismanagement, of course, of the administrations, which did not do what Greek farmers and farmers have chosen. And you come here today with a bill, Minister, do what? To increase state control, embrace, I would say, with the cooperative movement and, as many SYRIZA speakers have confessed, to increase the participation of your own political forces in all levels of cooperative organisations. I didn't say it, Minister. Your speakers have said so, Mr Papadopoulos and others. Therefore, you do not care about productivity. I wonder what a productive philosophy and what a vision of development serves the bill we are debating today, Minister. I say this for the simple reason: Article 12(4) and (5) of the Constitution, which stipulates that cooperatives are freely established by the producers, provides for the supervision of the Greek state - neither too strict nor very loose, but which must be exercised - and provides that cooperatives, as legal entities, under the existing legislation, can be controlled. You come with today's bill with a number of articles to regulate everything, from membership to election procedures to quota, the convening of general assemblies and a series of other issues, through a philosophy of state paternalism, with a state that wants to control everything, without unleashing any power at all, none at all dynamic. This, Minister, will allow me to say that this is an untreated commitment to bureaucracy. No tax and no development incentives give cooperatives the bill we are debating today. And you will allow me to say, Minister, that you are also committed to mediocracy. This restrictive provision on the terms of office of the presidents of cooperatives, what exactly does it serve? This state that we are all supposed to serve has not restrained Members - to start from us - the ministers, the presidents of agencies. Only the President of the Republic has restricted the term of office. You're the one who starts from the presidents of the cooperatives. And you are committed to mediocracy, Minister, because, anyway, the human factor is important, important. Not all people are the same, they don't have the same skills, they don't have the same talent, the same bit of supply. You have explained this provision, saying that you do not want collective procedures to be personalised, such as the cooperative movement. But, Minister, you know, the exceptions always exist in the rule. You said a multitude of cooperatives have accumulated debts. But there are also dozens, hundreds, perhaps, of cooperatives that are healthy. With the bill, what are you doing, Minister? You are giving the same medicine to both healthy and patients. And for the patients we don't know if they'll be cured - that we'll see in the future - but the healthy people will probably get sick with your bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There should be some exception in particular for the administrations and presidents who record profits and give workers work and profits to the producers. They must be excluded from this provision, Minister. To conclude, I would also like to make a reference to a number of parallel issues that have arisen in the debate. You are bringing the amendment by Mr Papapas, the amendment with a general number of 346 and a special number of 49, to establish another special secretariat. This was explained by the Minister in saying that we have made cut-offs of EUR 1.5 million, and we can also spend EUR 100,000 on the Information Secretariat on refugees and immigrants, and we can even get the picture abroad. I wonder, Minister: do we need to spend 100,000 euros a year, to show Idolus and Piraeus abroad? I am going to refer to the amendment on the bachelor's. I would say to you, Minister, that often it does not matter the philosophy with which it comes or the philosophy of an amendment or a law, but what doors and windows it opens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u476	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u477	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance. I did not see you have any predictions on this matter. Very lightly you are facing the objections of the New Democracy. But, you know, today we are voting on the results, we see them tomorrow. I'll be 30 seconds, Mr. President. I distinguished an irony from SYRIZA colleagues, accusing the New Democracy of being committed to forced cooperatives and others. This is another distortion of reality. The New Democracy was in favour of forced cooperatives in very few cases and when we talk about unique products in very specific areas of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u478	Mr. Buquoir, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u479	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u480	I think we all have to accept in this Chamber that those who are elected - and those who are elected three hundred - cannot be elected by direct democracy. On the occasion of the elections, the people put them with the cross of preference in direct democracy. Mortalities enter the indirect elections in an indirect way. When democracy is direct from the people, only the people put their term of office in parties or in MPs. That is my personal view.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u481	Mr President, this is your position on...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u482	No, no, no! As a general principle, Mr. Apostleu. And I think you're totally in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u483	Because there's a similar arrangement, and I thought...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u484	Well, come on, gentlemen. Mrs. Elisabeth Scoofa has the floor. Don't take our own eyes off. So, what do we invoke the people?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u485	It is a special provision, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u486	I'm not talking about the bill. I'm talking like a general principle. No relation to the bill, Mr. Papadopoulos. Mrs. Scouffa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u487	Thank you, Mr President. Because we have lived for this bill two days long in the process, I will try to be brief. I come from a county, Pieria, mainly agriculturalist, and that is why I have insisted that I should finally be placed, because I consider the agricultural issue and the question of cooperatives to be of concern to the farmers of my law. I will begin, first of all, from the reactions that the bill on cooperatives has met throughout the debate. There have also been reactions from the old cooperatives, which, of course, in my view reasonably supported by the parties of the major opposition. However, there have also been reactions from young farmers and new partners. I would particularly like to address them and to tell them that they, in fact, as young farmers and producers, are the ones on whom we are relying in order to revive a strong and healthy cooperative movement. The reason why we led to this bill is, of course, our desire to unleash the landscape to rural organisations and, of course, to make responsibility for the mistakes of the past. There is no desire for state intervention or for any anachronistic glance. Today we are discussing the basis of a proposed draft law which deals with many issues of the management and operation of cooperative organisations. Tomorrow, when it comes into effect and we see that this bill actually re-establishes cooperatives on a healthy basis by setting off local actors and administrations of dubious quality, this bill may be simplified and improved further. However, several important improvements have already been made by the Minister of State, Mr Apostolos. I would like to dwell on the very important article 28 and its fourth paragraph, which speaks of criminal liability and criminal law, and which states that it is punished by imprisonment from one month to one year, provided that there is no heavier penalty than other provisions, that anyone who acts as an administrative or management or control after the end of his term of office. Here, ladies and gentlemen, a reasonable question arises: A member of a cooperative and much more a manager has a certain term of office. Why would he intervene in the cooperative after the end of his term of office? The reason why he should have intervened will be to advise and foresee younger cooperatives. Is that possible? And because this is not the case and the reason for the intervention after the end of the term of office has so far been done for other reasons and for other interests, this provision comes to put an order in place and impose on those who do not comply with the necessary, allow me, punishment and punishment. As far as cooperative education is concerned, as a teacher, I of course think it is an obligation for the state to provide free education and education, even for lifelong education. But as the country passes - and as everything shows, it will soon come out - an economic problem at least comes the bill to say that the cooperatives will pay 2% of their stock for the training of their executives and members, for a training that is necessary and necessary. After all, the young farmers who will receive this training are the new generation of cooperative producers that will lead rural organisations to their new development phase. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to use the half-minute that I have left to address an issue which, unfortunately, has not been heard as much in this Chamber as it should, of course, concern support, institutionalisation and integration into the single national law of a form of cooperatives which, in my opinion, is very important. I am referring, of course, to women's cooperative organisations. We all come from the province, and we all can, and have in mind the bad economic situation of the rural women in the province. These women's cooperatives, Minister, must be supported by all means, either through European funds, either through educational programmes or even more in the export of processed products made by the Greek rural woman. This will strengthen not only itself, but also the annual gross national product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u488	Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis has the floor. Then Mr. Constantine Barriotas follows. Here, Mr Emmanuelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I keep track of the TV panels every day and as a permanent ‘loving’ type we listen to the New Democracy wing and its expressions: ‘Go away. You're useless and dangerous. And the sooner you leave for the country." In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we are - and we are admitting it - useless to a political system of corruption and interoperable and dangerous, because with our attitude, with our political presence, we are threatening to move to the margins of history, a fact that has forty years been dominated by the political and social life of the country. In this sense we are also useless and dangerous. Why? Because - fortunately for us, unfortunately for society - we are not the same. And we're not the same because we're here to build on ruins. Where we look at only the ruins we have to see: in health, in education, in public administration, and above all in the field of agricultural production. Because what is more than a ruin is all of the six and a half thousand cooperatives that are crowning deer all over the Greek territory, cooperatives that have given birth to an idea excellent for the development of our country and our people, because the idea of the cooperative is in the crust of the Republic the most solid foundation. However, with a systematic effort through the concept of the heterogeneous, all worthless, for years, you have been making use of these spaces. And it's not that we charged the country with three billion. It's not that we're still looking for the six hundred million of Short, Moraite. It is that we have broken up a perspective and that is the most important and most painful one. Why? Because the cooperative idea is based on the whole prospect of developing agricultural production, the pillar of the national economy and society. And that is systematically, with complete awareness, you have served and, until the last minute, you have defended it. And now you come to tell us that we have no reason to support this project. What's that? To rebuild the cooperatives on their real basis, to give real social and political content to what, in our political choice, is the foundation of the development perspective in the area of agricultural production. What are the guarantees that ensure the success of this project? The democratic nature and purity of the intentions, what our people say 'clean accounts'. And in that sense the bill has and serves both these features. As time is very limited, I will only stand on two points - Mrs Skoufa has pointed it out - and it is absolutely essential to support, Minister, the cooperative idea in the field of women's cooperatives. Also, because there can be no rural development, if there is no real rural education, we can find the thread left by the Kapodistrias. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u490	Thank you, too. Mr Konstantinos Barriotas has the floor. Then there is the next five minutes, namely Mrs. Euphoria Karasarlidou, Mr. Andreas Michaelides, Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis and Mr. Athanasios Davakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u491	Are we finishing with them, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u492	No, we still got ten. Don't rush, Niko. Along with me, the meeting will be closed. Don't rush.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u493	I am not in a hurry, Mr President. Besides, I'm here all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u494	Here, sir, Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u495	Thank you, Mr President. I have to say that Mr Papadopoulos is here all the time today. I will be very brief for cooperatives. It has been mentioned and exhausted, on the part of my Party, from the previous speakers. In summary, we are left with the feeling that the strict regulatory framework it introduces and the worship for the uniformity that governs the philosophy of this bill, unfortunately, will bring solutions and encouragement to the cooperative in Greece. While respecting both time and time, I will focus on the Health Ministry's amendment, which is also very important. I think it needs comment, as it contains several points, at least controversial. So at a time when health is in a pitiful state - we were discussing last week the arduous state in which machinery and radiotherapy services are found for cancer patients - we have seen various vulnerabilities related to the staffing of intensive care units and how the Ministry of Health perceives the mobilisation of doctors appointed to units, which is particularly, I would say, curious, if anything else. We have seen in the press something that we know from a long time and you are repeating the last year, patients going to hospitals - this time in "Metaxa" - carrying from home sheets, cotton, alcohol and other necessary for their hospitality, since hospitals are unable to provide them. And we also see an amendment in which the Ministry is cut for anything other than substance-related, patient care and effective treatment. So today we are discussing many - and we are debating it very little, unfortunately - an amendment which is made up of eight concise paragraphs, which makes it the second most important draft law of the Ministry of Health, after that famous parallel programme. And what does he do in paragraph 1? He's correcting the parallel program. I think this is the third or fourth time in the last month where we have discovered errors in a bill that passed just a month ago and we are rushing to correct them, to complete them. Well, we should be at work. So what's he doing? Does Article 97 of this bill modify, which he is doing? It introduces appointments without criteria - beloved theme - by way of derogation from each existing provision. Another favourite expression of the left government. All bills shall describe at least one provision ‘with the exception of all texts’. So what's he doing? It introduces the possibility of concluding individual lease contracts with cleaners, safety workshop members and so on, solely on the basis of the pre-employment of those persons with the object of private individuals. In other words, whoever has worked or worked as a private workshop at the hospital can now be appointed by an individual rental contract at the hospital, without any other criterion. I ask: If the same private company employing cleaners in a hospital - and it is a real example - was working cleaners with the same status, say, electronic Athens, which has just been closed and left out of work, why not do something about them? What's the difference? What is the selection criterion? Thousands of unemployed right now in the country are trying through a molecule system to find a place to solve their problem. There are criteria that have been made available to the public on several occasions for these positions. The political response is respected and one understands it. I would like, however, because the time has passed, which is, in the end, too short, to comment in particular on the balance of the amendment, such as the 4 by which, as it says, the legalisation of all public spending, the IPPs and the hospitals is expanding. From the time of Abrahamopoulos we have started with a law to legalize everything. Without any control, without any care, we legalise everything - direct assignments, expenditure - in hospitals and we pay them again, without any control being carried out. This thing looks like it's not changing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In paragraph 6, there is a huge issue, which concerns the deletion of EEA debts. Mr. Paulakis yesterday from this House's Step said proud and glad that with three series he deleted - he says - 3 billion debts from the central government. In fact, it is not even 3 billion - it is about 1 billion - and it is not the central government. He's deleting. Someone has to explain to Mr Polakis that the central government, another EPPY. They're completely different things, they don't have anything to do with each other. Nor does the public money in the budget relate to the money managed by the EEAS, the money of insurance contributions. In any case, with a three-series amendment, in an unrelated bill, without a General Accounting Office of the State, without any accountability, without any number - because the 3 billion is estimated, my assessment again, counting what can be measured, is that it is under 1 billion - we have an unacceptable amendment, which makes a leap in accounting, which is too serious to pass unnoticed. I would really like to hear what is the reason why this is being done and what is being done urgently in an amendment, without the slightest debate and without costing. It's really unprecedented. Finally, I would like to point out that for once, under paragraph 8, the unacceptable status, which has been created in hospitals since December, which have been headless and without governors, has been attempted. Once again there is an amendment, which extends - it says - the lifetime of the administrative boards of hospitals, many of which have expired since 1 June for the simple reason that there are no governors, deputy governors and care. That's the end of the board of directors, and no one gets it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u496	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u497	I'm done with this. As in the example of the University Hospital of Larissa, February and March, it was without management and board in a full operational deadlock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u498	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-three students and students and three educational sessions from the 1st Lassithi High School. Crete has its honour today. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Karasardou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u499	Colleagues, we are debating today an important draft law aimed at strengthening the country's rural world. The government sets specific criteria for a sector which can and must be the head of the spearhead of the Greek economy. It is trying to improve cooperatives and through the transparency and accountability of cooperative processes, strengthen the product produced. I personally come from the prefecture of Imathia, on which the economy is based basically on farmers and the primary sector. In recent years work has been underestimating steadily. Apart from the unfavourable economic conditions and the closure of large extra-European markets, a large share of responsibility is borne by the organisational structure and function and - to be precise - the non-operation of agricultural cooperatives. So let's see what's going on in the country's cooperative industry. There are six and a half thousand registered cooperatives and only a thousand forty-two operate. The remaining five thousand four hundred are, in fact, cooperatives - 'globes'. Of these forty - two, therefore, only fifteen - twenty are economically sound. Others are either in debt or are in a loss of business. This bill tries to strengthen the cooperative space in two ways. Firstly, by correcting the accumulated errors in previous years and, secondly, by tightening the criteria for the operation of cooperatives and establishing control mechanisms to prevent the repetition of the same errors, they will increase transparency and accountability and will help cooperatives to lower production costs and improve their product prices. So, on the one hand we clear the accounts with the malfunctions of the past and on the other hand give a serious starting-point for their future operation. In order to correct and not to repeat previous errors, the National Register of Agricultural Cooperatives and other collective bodies is first established, as well as a competent Audit Authority and an inspectors industry. Recording in a single database will reveal which cooperatives have sound economic data and a development plan for their activities. Secondly, the Supervisory Board is set up in the management bodies of the cooperative with the aim of controlling the actions of the board of directors in order to prevent maladministration. Thus, we prevent the personalisation and nepotism of the agencies and strengthen transparency and accountability in decisions and financial management, which their leadership is doing. Thirdly, a framework for the operation of the cooperative is being established in the business models by appointing a Director-General, with the Action and Development Programme drawn up annually by the Management Board, accompanied by a revenue-cost budget and the balance of surpluses for the development of agricultural cooperatives. In addition, cooperative education is being strengthened, bureaucratic procedures for the creation and transaction of cooperatives with the State are being simplified, incentives are being given to create a link between intra-clinic and interclining partnerships and the unified and irreversible representation of farmers are welcomed through their collective bodies. Moreover, it is easier to create cooperative enterprises by small farmers in the spirit of the social economy. Small farmers now have a legal ally and an umbrella of protection to succeed. The government aims to deal with chronic illnesses. This bill focuses on one of the most important sources of problems in the field of agricultural production and economy, cooperatives. I am particularly surprised that colleagues in the Opposition are constantly invoking self-regulation of the market and are advised not to intervene. Why is that? Don't you see the mess that exists? You are talking about self-regulation of the market, while you are deliberately covering the opportunism of chaos. But let's not be fooled. Inside this chaos, elections were built, local 'warrants', personal structures which, in order to sustain themselves, sacrificed the viability of cooperatives. How many financial and administrative irregularities have occurred because of this lack of criteria and controls? How many rosés have been made to keep individual people in certain places, despite their failed births? Really, how many mistakes can we take yet? You are asking us not to intervene, not to change the terms of the game, but see what has happened so far. The new law is based mainly on the structure of Law 2810/2000 and on articles of Law 4015/2011. In recent years these two laws have been subjected to thirty-five amendments. These minor changes manifest the way the previous governments decided in fragmentation to close 'blocks' and open others, always make service and meet short-term demands. The myth of self-regulation that you propose is an alibi to impose the inappropriateness that will sustain chaos, because chaos seems to be benefiting them. That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, this sector needs help. And this help we're trying to offer. I shall close with a message, however, to my fellow government MPs. None of us should consider that this law despite its importance is panacea. We must stand by the rural world, inform him of new forms of organisation, new forms of cultivation, new financial instruments and support him financially and organisationally in order to cope with this difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u500	Mr. Andreas Michaelides has the floor. Next, Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis and Mr. Athanasios Davakis. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Michaelides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u501	Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable, I think, that the bill that is being introduced into Parliament today is trying to put a order on an extremely complex issue, on a chaotic situation in our country's cooperatives, a pathology which has been reproduced for many decades and which has, I think, reached a limit point. This is something that each one can see. But you will allow me to focus my position on the articles of this bill on forced cooperatives and, more specifically, on the conversion of forced cooperatives into ordinary cooperatives. As you know, Chios has a privileged product, mastic and an excellent cooperative, primary and secondary - association - which has a long journey. I would like to tell you that since the late 1930s a democrat, brilliant doctor, inspired this cooperative and began to concentrate the production of mastic producers. And today this product, mastic, with the unadulterated efforts, is a product of Protected Designation of Origin, which the Union of Mastic producers and mastic producers have given. The Union’s commercial activity is mainly export. It exports about forty - five tons of mastic and a hundred different products through its subsidiaries. In 2003, it financed twenty-seven research programmes. The Center for Applied Research has already been launched for the mastic. He has also received certification as a traditional medicine. And we're just waiting to get certification for a medicine with the classic meaning of the word. In 2014, he joined the representative list of intangible cultural heritage of UNESCO. It has a turnover of EUR 15 million a year as a cooperative and another 10 million to its subsidiary, MEDITERRA. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] This, as you can see, states that this is an extremely healthy cooperative, competitive, with openings to new markets, which at the moment has nothing to fear of competition and makes brave openings at all levels of the markets. What happens to Article 32 on the conversion of forced cooperatives? There have been admittedly some initial wordings which we have tried, in consultation with the Association of Mastic producers, but also with the Ministry's political leadership, to reshape and formulate, so as not to leave it - at least in our cooperative - open to issues, so that the complicity of the cooperative can be suppressed. I would like to say at all levels that we remain in solidarity with the mastic producers' struggles and we support the necessity at all levels. We fully share their anxiety, but also the reservations they make and I believe that we must in every way safeguard this necessity. However, because in this Chamber - and also outside of this Chamber - hypocrisy is more than hypocrisy and some late honourers and defenders of forcedness have been found, I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the New Democracy, which, as we all know, is based on the basic ideology of neoliberal tactics, free markets, has now appeared to defend the complicity of the cooperatives and indeed the forcedness of the cooperatives in Chios. It's just that my colleagues saw the light and went in. And that's perfectly clear. And let me refer here to the statement just two years ago in this Chamber of the Member of the Lesbos Parliament, then of Mr Voyatzis, who said: 'As far as cooperatives are concerned, I think it is a disgrace to today, Minister...' - addressed to the then Minister - 'by liberal governments or governments who, however, embrace the free economy, to allow forced cooperatives to continue'. I'm filing it in the Minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u502	But we allowed it. We haven't changed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u503	Please shorten up, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u504	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would therefore like us to have absolutely clear in front of us who are the ones who are struggling every day for the preservation of this compulsion and who are trying to fruit things and supposedly plead solidarity with the compelling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u505	Thank you, Mr. Michaelides, SYRIZA MP. Mr Katsaniotis Andreas, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u506	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall start by taking the floor from my last colleague and say that it has no interest anymore in everything that some people considered to be separating, how liberal some things are, how unsatisfactory they are. I don't know at this time how the fighters of liberalism feel when they pass the elastic working relationships through the back door or the blocks in today's bill or whether it's liberal or whether it's socialist. So it would be advisable in this Chamber, after the great battles of a memorial-antimony and the heroic negotiations, to start a debate based on logic and not on levediac words, which are easily forgotten. And let us start with a first assumption, I believe, common to all of us: the agricultural cooperative movement in Greece went bankrupt long before Greece went bankrupt. And it is characteristic that today, essentially, sustainable is not more than a hundred, fifty cooperatives in the country. It is also important that the debts of the cooperatives in liquidation touch three billion. It could easily be said by the government that these 3 billion, Minister, are burdening the old parties, the bad parties. I would like to ask, however, whether they are weighing more on me than I am a Member of the European Parliament or Mr Bolaris, who is today a State Secretary of the Government, but has a route to the old parties quite large? A second assumption, as shown during the debate, is that this bill instead of the substantial resumption of the "cooperative" brings back old-fashioned practices and restores new embrace of the state with the agricultural sector. In fact, I would say that this bill presents the same contradiction as the government and its work as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, no one on the right or the left, but a reasonable man, could support this piece of legislation. No one who lives in today's era can support a piece of legislation that, instead of promoting healthy entrepreneurship in the agricultural sector, tries to impose feasibility checks and activities on cooperatives. No one can see in a good mood something that in 2016, instead of referring to strengthening the extroversion and sales networks, to exploiting new technologies, to modern holdings and production facilities of certified products, predicts that the Minister can define the type and the minimum content of the contracts per agricultural product. The rural Greece of the 21st century is surely not in need of such laws. It does not have to forbid cooperative cooperation. It cannot be forbidden to cooperate with neighbouring cooperatives having the same agricultural products, to move them together or to promote them on foreign markets. There is no need for retention for training by a new body that will be set up by the Ministry. Isn't that right? There is no need for a limit for buying products by non-members. If a cooperative has a high capacity to process, distribution network, markets abroad, to prohibit it from increasing its turnover? On the contrary, simple and clear rules are needed for everyone. A state that creates an institutional framework within which cooperatives operate freely, strengthens the added value of agricultural production, strengthens the concepts of investment and career in the rural area and controls, like any body and business in that country, by the state's control mechanisms for their sound and legitimate functioning. The rural world in Greece does not need any more "fathers". It requires rural schools and special educational programs, which will turn every farmer into a small scientist of land and at the same time a true businessman and owner of his property, his land and his life. A connection between the countryside and research centres and innovation cells is needed. It is necessary to identify the international market for each product produced in the country in order to keep up-to-date knowledge of the marketing channels, production costs, production and consumption periods, as well as any other information which is valuable for agricultural production. We need to improve infrastructure through cooperation between private and public bodies, which will provide solutions to both complex and simple problems of farmers' everyday life. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute, Mr President. These and other such tools of modern times need the country’s rural world. In conclusion, I should like to refer to Mr Pappa's amendment. You know, communication and crisis management value when it takes place at the beginning of the crisis. We're coming now and we've got the immigration. I would remind you that a press conference has taken place since 2 February in order to establish a single immigration coordination centre, in which the Directorate-General for Communication, which is the competent body, did not take part and had no involvement by the press offices abroad, was not involved in any of the activities of the Ministry of Tourism, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is responsible in the sense that the image presented abroad harmed it directly, was not of any concern to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. No press center was built for foreign journalists. They were released to show images for so many months that dragged the country around the world. There was no direction, no help to journalists. The only ones who welcomed even the foreigners who went to Eleona were the non-governmental organizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u507	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u508	For the first time a spokesperson from the General Secretariat of Government Communications went to Mytilini when the Pope went as a procurer. The government is now coming to create what? He's coming to create a place for Mr. Kritsis. Because that's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about! He comes to create a Secretary-General's position on Mr. Kyritsis when the crisis is no longer on her pick when the images abroad are gone when the country's image abroad has been destroyed. That's what you're doing. Instead of protecting the image of the country, you come and make a place for Mr. Kritsis. Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u509	Thank you, Mr. Katsaniotis. Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor. I would ask you to remain in the course of the year, all the speakers, so that we can finish this soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u510	Mr. Comrade, I don't know if it's for Mr. Siress this secretariat. I suspect that it is also Mr Muzala, that Mr Kammenos eventually applies his threat and resigns if Mr Muzalas does not leave. We'll see. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What should have happened - and let us be serious about it - is the cost of this secretariat - which Mr Papapas recommends with this amendment - and the money which will be needed, better, ladies and gentlemen of all the wings, to give it to the established budgets of the general staff, which have so far been fully accepted by the burden of immigration and refugee issues. The Armed Forces have unleashed a government, whose lack of immigration policy and all that compose its proposal on the refugee issue, have led the Armed Forces to be at the forefront of this whole crisis, with all that means to divert - if you like - from their own mission, which is to put up the threat from the neighbor. Before I begin my approach to the bill, I should like to read a few points from a letter from my old cooperative friend in Laconia, who writes to me in this letter, ladies and gentlemen: If we wanted to propose a law specifically for agricultural cooperatives - I would like the Minister to hear me - then this law must set out the following points: the definition of cooperatives, the levels of cooperative cooperation, cooperatives, internal and external control bodies, the tax regime, which is differentiated from the capital companies, due to the specific function of the institution, the absolute freedom of association in the statutes, so that the members themselves can regulate their own houses, subject to respect for the seven international cooperatives, State control, which must be exercised as any other undertaking - i.e. control, which ensures legality and not that it is regulated, as you have at this moment. Instead, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you intervene in the autonomy of cooperatives, interfere in their electoral process, impose them an operational plan - a business plan, which is essentially not happening anywhere else - and imposes them on investment projects and submit them. And as foretold by the opposite side, you are carrying out a reasonable and unreasonable control of legality, which you must also do as a government. You strangle, in other words, rural entrepreneurship, which is inconsistent with your history in the rural area. Say we vote for this bill, which we vote on this evening. Do you think that something will change in the pathogens, which exist - and indeed exist - in the cooperative area, when the partner itself, the family of the cooperatives does not accept it? This is reflected in the committee's minutes, in which none of the bodies have matched the principles of the bill, which you entered. Not even one! This is something that shows that those for whom we legislate here are far from what we are legislating for. Not even one! Instead, you bring this together, a mixture of pathogens, ideologies and old provisions, which have failed and which are now coming in the sight of change and reform. I repeat: Cooperatives and cooperatives are a matter that starts from far away. It has been man-made and created prosperous prospects from the struggle of the partners, which you forget or want to forget. On the article, which provides for recruitment to ELGA: along with the recruitment to ELGA, Minister - in the minimum amount of time I have left - you must also see the change of the ELGA regulation. The farmer cannot pay premiums when the damage occurs, to differentiate the insurance risk from the farmer as a result of the damage. We must come here to discuss the credibility of the ELGA. Make a survey, see what ELGA's credibility is today in the rural world. He only pays, we make the farmer. And unfortunately, when the damage occurs, they're looking for the valuer, they're looking for the findings, they're looking for the procedures. As regards the provisions for organic producers, a consistent request from organic producers is to separate the markets for organic products from the markets for conventional products. You need to see it, to say something goes on in this process. In conclusion, in the very least time that I have, I would like to say that with regard to the parliamentary amendment, which relates to the first time, I shall be in agreement. It is a constant request from the Greek region. I had a meeting with the Deputy Minister, Mr. Petersburg, in January of the year, on this matter. Do not approach it from the humanitarian side. You are not more sensitive than these people, who are employed in our lands, are employed in the Greek region, they are next to the Greek farmer with them, covering the great deficit of agricultural hands from Greek birds, from Greek farmers, unfortunately. And that is another social issue that we need to discuss at some point. In any case, the payment of the works by illegal immigrants will give the insurance funds a breath. I repeat, it is an issue that should have already been done and should have come as a government proposal rather than as a parliamentary amendment. Last Sunday, there was a meeting in Scala Laconia, due to the great problem of orange non-absorption. We are looking for Mr Marda, who is touring Europe, in Brussels, perhaps, to find a Syrian investor. Anyway, you need to see it. There is the measure with the de minimis programme and the social withdrawal programme. I'm telling you in public. I understand that you have a question with the bill, but we should, Minister, look at this issue. The measure of social withdrawal expires on Wednesday, and until then you must have taken measures on an issue, which not only covers the Laconia Prefecture, but also concerns all the citrus regions of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u511	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Mr. Antoniou has the floor. But please, tight in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u512	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on agricultural cooperatives aims to address the phenomena of the past, which have contributed to the depreciation of cooperatives in our country and sets out the legal framework for their regeneration. The main problems facing cooperatives today are the injurious operation, for a long time, of many cooperatives, the lack of liquidity and high lending, with the direct consequence of dependence on banks, inadequate staffing and administrative organisation, as well as the lack of cooperative education and training of members, the lack of efficient sales networks and much more. With the provisions of this bill, not only will the conditions for the exclusion of the pathogens of the past be created, but farmers will also be strengthened, in the context of rationally functioning considerations, with the aim of supporting agricultural production, so as to be able to meet the new, very difficult demands of times on the world market and competition. I speed up some adjustments of the bill, which I think matter. First of all, the compulsory delivery of production to 80%, with a deletion penalty. It is a regulation that will strengthen the responsibility of members to the cooperatives. The abolition of the scandalous regulation of the financing of cooperative and trade union organizations by ELGA's insurance contributions. The adoption of a more proportional electoral system. In other words, the election of the institutions will now take place with a single ballot and the number of preference crosses may not exceed one third of the total number of members of the Board. One share is established - one vote for all members of the cooperative and optional shares without the right to vote and to vote. It is also important that the declaration on 'Wherever you are concerned' be obligated to do so. For the first time, too, we regulate issues of women's cooperatives. There are arrangements for PDO, PGI, SPD, producer organisations, interbranch organisations and for traceability of agricultural cooperative products. It is also important to set up the Agricultural Cooperative Education and Training Fund. Furthermore, the establishment of the DIAGE, the Real Equivalent Management Agency, where its property will be used exclusively to assist rural activity. Ladies and gentlemen, the area of the cooperative movement in our country has been diagnosed over the past few years, so that the concept of association has been discredited and devalued. It is surprising that the arguments put forward by the colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK, who have monopolized this representation for many decades at all levels of the cooperative movement to accuse the current government without being tempted by a fundamental self-criticism for their own actions. The agricultural cooperatives and associations for many years have been their own party groupings, a field of reproducing party influence, a privileged area of action of parties and, unfortunately, MPs. This part-partyisation was one of the basic pathogens for the depreciation and dismantling of cooperatives. The other basic pathogenesis was the lack of serious mechanisms of transparency and control over cooperatives' finances, which is cured by the provisions of this bill. Regular and extraordinary financial audits are established and the necessary external supervision is required. Transparency and control of cooperative finances are the most important parameter, which will help prevent corruption and waste management and inspire the feeling of trust in the cooperative idea. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's environment of the extreme competitive world market, small farmers can survive only through organising and creating strong and healthy cooperatives so that they can achieve better prices for agricultural supplies and better prices for their agricultural products. I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u513	Thank you to Mr Antoniou and to the consistency of time. Mrs Vayonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u514	We are talking today about a bill, which can - and I stress it - be a tool in the hands of small and medium-sized farmers, as it can contribute substantially to the development of the primary sector. There has been criticism here from the standpoint of the Opposition about, allegedly, state-of-the-art and much more. However, the numbers do not stand criticism. According to all the information - what was said in the committee - out of six and a half thousand cooperatives around the thousand are operating and about twenty are viable. All the more so, at the moment, cooperative associations owe billions - the sum exceeds 3.5 billion - when there have been many fine arrangements in the past and there have been many times. This is perhaps the result in an economic crisis: when the cooperatives should be the disguise for farmers, they themselves would be completely helpless. It has to be clear. This government does not want - as I think no farmer wants - new state-owned cooperatives living from subsidies or subsidies. Instead, we need living, democratic, creative and productive cooperatives. And to do this, they need three, four basic things. First, democratic function. And that is to be ensured by 'one member, one share, one vote', by the way in which the board of directors, from the terms of the terms of the terms of office, from democratic control by the basis and so on. Secondly, we need sustainability with the possibility of organising and marketing production. In that context, it is regulated by the obligation of members to deliver most of their production, as is the fact that the decision on the common marketing of products each year is decided by the General Assembly. I would remind you that in the past, a national product such as oil with blessings and ELAURGIKI lost markets and was scattered to traders, rather than pursuing a serious national policy on its promotion. I think that this time we need to be more prudent and learn from our mistakes. The third issue, which is necessary, is control. The question of control is particularly serious. Since the 1980s the control carried out on the part of ATE has been abolished. With the economic scandals and the sinful past of the cooperatives, which has denounced them both in the eyes of farmers and society, the need for financial and management control is not without them. I do not understand why the National Register of Agricultural Cooperatives and other collective bodies is bad, nor do I understand why the presence of the auditor is negative during the general meetings, as was the case before. The fourth issue is to strengthen the improvement, promote and monitor the quality of products. Of course I am referring to the promotion of PDO, PGI, SPD, as referred to in Article 38, and the traceability of cooperative products, as each one of these previous products adds a plus and is added value in a globalised market in which we are called to open roads for our products. Therefore, by summarising, democratic functioning, collaborative organisation of production and marketing, control and quality are the main pillars on which we are called upon to build the new, upgraded agricultural production. In addition, I consider important articles in this draft law to support women's cooperatives, the better organisation of producer markets with conventional and organic farming products, although I would personally prefer that there have been separate markets of conventional and organic products, and of course the better organisation of the industry. I strongly support the amendment to the bachelor's report, which, on the other hand, I had signed together with other colleagues. To conclude, I should like to point out: First, a debate and criticism took place in the committee on the establishment of the Property Management, Aquaculture and Equipment Agency. I must say that I do not understand this criticism. When I went to the register, I was amazed to learn that public land had not been registered. And not only that, but we all know there have been trespasses. Is it wrong to record this public land, to distribute and support young farmers, as, quite rightly, has Mrs Skoufa said? Really, I'm wondering. I won't say the rest. My time's up. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u515	Thank you, Ms. Vagonakis, MP of SYRIZA. Mrs. Tyloridou Olympia has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u516	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to make a little reference today. Today is a black anniversary for Greek democracy. And, because yesterday something was heard from the lips of the Chief of Police Representation, which I think is dangerous for our democracy, that all leftists are not terrorists, but all terrorists are left, I would like to say to him that, by analogy, one could say that all rightists are not fascists, but all fascists are right. And I say this to emphasise that, in particular, in this critical period for the country, we need seriousness and at least take care of our public dialogue. It takes a national attitude and unity. With regard to the bill, at a crucial moment for the country, of course, the cooperative movement should be that model, which will easily be able to cope with the economic crisis in relation to other models, because through the cooperative there is the possibility of collective responsibility and collective responsibility. This has not happened in our country. And it was not because the cooperatives in Greece had insufficient organisation, insufficient sales networks, loss-making financial results, and eventually all led to the depreciation of the cooperative movement. Today, this bill is part of the effort made by the Greek Government to create a new model of organisation that promotes solidarity, creativity, trust between producers and consumers, direct contact with society, healthy cooperatives, which will not depend on loans and subsidies. Today, this government is attempting to turn the grievance that exists for the problems of the cooperative movement into a different model, a model that will result from democratic and creative dialogue. Some in this Chamber and in the past few days in committee accused the government of attempting state intervention and chose against it the freedom of the market laws. We believe that the average solution must be found here. In today's globalised environment of the extreme competitive economy, this bill creates the preconditions for the survival of small and medium-sized farmers, for the development of the agricultural sector. It facilitates the establishment of agricultural cooperatives, through simpler procedures, facilitates entrepreneurship, helps in real and effective control of the functioning of agricultural cooperatives and creates a framework for the creation of healthy and successful rural groups and organisations. All this is done through too many regulations, in which time does not allow me to go any further. I believe, however, that although this bill may also have some points which, obviously, in future we should see even better, puts the healthy foundations for a successful agricultural cooperative movement that will help our country's agricultural production in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u517	Thank you, Mrs. Tyloridou, SYRIZA MP and the economy in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u518	So we can take a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u519	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u520	Reimbursements are not made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u521	There's no returns at all. Mrs Caracosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u522	It was said by another previous colleague and my colleague, saying that the last hearing and the last opposition of the majority of the parties here is: 'Now leave'. One says 'now to leave for election', the others say 'now to leave and make a single government'. It doesn't matter what we call it, but the hearing is that. Today, beyond the unrelated, incompetent, etc., we heard we were lazy. It is really no one to laugh, because they speak only to themselves, not to Greek society, those who say that. So today, Mr Vlachos, with great intensity, wanted to convince us that we are irrelevant to what private economy means. Mr. Tsoulus - look out! - He particularly stressed that we should go back to the cologne with this bill and go back to communism. You know, on April 21, 1967, this is what I heard in my family, and my half family went to hide, because they were communists and they were scared. So these expressions are not random here today. They want us to come back there, to intimidate us, to say, "hey, Greek people, the communists are dangerous" and to remind us of a phrase which those who lived at that time remember that the concentration over the two people is forbidden. Do you know what a cooperative means? The concentration of more than two people, and in any case the cooperation of more than two people, and, if possible, the form of this. That is, completely reversed logic from that of the dictatorship, from that of fascism. Are we all together in this reverse logic and look at the individual issues? Because if we talk this way, which Mr Tassoulas spoke today, I am beginning to be afraid of. Take note of what societies we are building if we make solidarity economies or horror societies. It is important to talk about democracy and to mean it, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, I would ask everyone to change this climate, even from the representatives of the New Democracy, if any of its members were unsuccessful. So let's see what a private economy means, as Mr Vlacho wants us to answer it. Did we ban the anonymous farmers' corporations, the MIPs or the peer-to-peer companies with this bill? Oh, no. What are we doing? We encourage the creation of cooperatives. We facilitate where a middle or poor cannot function in this competition and strengthen it. We give him the opportunity to reconstruct into a team. And there, of course, we should come back and help him both through tax aid and bills. Let's see all this. There are great articles. Watch out. There are legislative improvements that go to what I'm saying. In other words, it is excellent that island regions, mountain regions, which allow fewer members to build a cooperative, are separated. That's great. It's the last one. Ladies and gentlemen referred to this point quite a few of the women's cooperatives. Whoever attended the committee, which was attended by cooperative representatives, etc. or groups dealing with this matter would see that they were all men's representatives. Do you think all women in the province are incapable? A colleague told us here: What, to beat women up to put them on board? No, gentlemen. It's the province's cultural framework that shuts the woman home. And, unfortunately, in our time, he's shutting down the woman in the house in the province. We need to get the woman out of the house and creative work, which makes her seem, seem and collect her product. That's why the three members for the areas I know - because I come from the mountains of Jummerka - are excellent. One woman will be found in one village, another in the next and another in the third. If, in fact, we do not allow this and we do not strengthen it, we will never see the creative productivity of the female sex in this country. It is a shame that Greece does not bet on the creativity and culture of half its population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u523	Thank you, Mrs. Karakosta. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, sixteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 80th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u524	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the bill today: 'Agricultural cooperatives, forms of collective organization of the rural area and other provisions'. But what is the political scene in which we are called upon to legislate? We are in economic suffocation and social despair. The government keeps the country and the citizens hostages of insecurity and uncertainty, which it itself has caused. The evaluation should have been completed since October and we have arrived in April and are still waiting. Every day he passes, the bill increases. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, don't negotiate any more. Mercy! No more negotiation! The problems, however, remain large and unresolved and are here and concern all Greek citizens, particularly the new generation of our country and the rural area. Ladies and gentlemen, some governments, in the past, have tried to control the cooperative movement. Others did it, others didn't. Then the crisis came, he put new data on the already problematic cooperative area. Questions are therefore raised: Are the cooperatives doing the purpose and the reason why they were created? Is it necessary to restructure and reconstruct the cooperatives? What can and should the state provide cooperative organizations? In my opinion, it is necessary to shape the institutional framework in order to motivate producers, young farmers to organise their cooperatives in the context of the modern economy and management, to function autonomously and in an environment of creativity with private economic criteria, with modern accounting standards, with an extroverted approach, with quality production, to strengthen their competitive advantages. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the point today? What are the new European data? What are the innovations the bill brings? What are the necessary reforms, areas and structural changes? What pathogens need to be cured? Minister, today's draft law, which you are bringing to a vote on which of the above answers? In my opinion, no one. Ladies and gentlemen, the international scientific trends of management in the agri-food sector point the way. Their proposals - a result of research - suggest that, through cooperation, synergies in the standards of the Clusters, farmers will be able to improve their performance and improve their position. The question, for our producers, is specialization and extroversion. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is described by the following words: state intervention and partitioning. It puts obstacles to the trading of cooperatives with third parties. It defines how many members they will, when they will hire their manager, with what majorities they will elect their representatives, how the funds will be raised for business action, what business plan they will follow. What's the matter with them? Which country? What standards are you following? Minister, for us, a bill on cooperatives should move to the tripartite 'new scientific methods - private economic criteria - partnerships and synergies with a view to extroversion and competition'. Cooperatives are based on their members and they need many members. They are based on trust, understanding, collegiality and solidarity. Your bill moves in an outdated and incorrect direction. We are voting against it. The reality itself will cancel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u525	Thank you, Mr. Style, and the economy in time. Mr. Beyalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u526	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we come to discuss a bill on cooperatives in a difficult period - certainly - for the economy and society of our country, but, given that today, in this difficult period, we are one of the reasons why we have come to this situation is that the organisation of the primary sector does not exist. This organization we inherited. Are you satisfied with this system that exists so far in the cooperatives? It is a system that, whatever changes were made in 2010 and 2011, but also in earlier laws, has ultimately failed. Why did he fail? Why, isn't that a proper system? Weren't the people who dealt with this right? Or politics? It could all be together. However, given that in 2016 the country has few cooperatives, which operate and are standards, and it is the light we need to get. Most of them are inactive. Many of them are indebted, many are in court. And, as far as infrastructure is concerned, shells! Warehouses, cheese shops, various other facilities are abandoned. Why? Is there any perception, which we have heard and now, that everything will be solved by market rules? The previous speaker, my dear colleague, said that in addition to his criticism, the rest would co-operate them, but I see that they are different and contrary to the New Democracy line, which says that the market rules will resolve these issues. We saw what the market rules were. All they managed to do was to destroy, close, sell out all the large manufacturing and interventionist cooperatives and our farmers to be abode in private capital and traders. But, gentlemen of the New Democracy, is it possible on the one hand to evangelise the private economy and the capitalist economy and not to see that all modern capitalist states in Central Europe are working together? Does anyone know of you - unless I am mistaken and correct me - a state from Central Europe in which the disposal, processing of agricultural produce is done by individuals? In fact, it is through cooperatives - auctions, which the farmer knows only is to produce, produce proper, quality product. The cooperative, producer groups are the ones that are directly involved with the producer, but they also give the know-how for market rules and for the sale of products. But there is a climate of confidence. A climate of confidence, which does not exist in Greece. You managed to lose this climate of confidence with your policies, what went to set up some years ago. But that was ruined. Now we come here, today, with double effort, first of all we need to restore this climate of confidence and thus implement and vote for a modern legal framework, which, ladies and gentlemen, should be seen positively, that, if there is nothing, we are taking a step. Maybe it's not perfect. Let each one say his criticism. It is, however, a step forward to put the cooperative back on, to get farmers to work together, so that they can produce them, so that they can cope with the difficult situations of globalised trade in which they operate. Ladies and gentlemen, time is running out and I do not think that more is needed. It's been said enough. I should like to address two points to the moment: Firstly, foreign mistress is clear that it is a progressive move, because, anyway, these foreigners exist, work in our fields. We know. But they're uninsured. But anyway, they do exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u527	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u528	They do not cover any unemployment rate, my dear colleague. We know our kids don't go to the fields. And I'm saying, when a farmer has a foreigner in his field and gets an accident or gets sick, he's gonna throw him in the ditch? Why not be insured with the bachelor, who has a double benefit, and for the farmer, who will justify the costs, but also for the worker himself who will go to the health system to treat him? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One last point, Mr President, concerns the taxation of subsidies. Gentlemen, we have said this many times: in 2013 subsidies were entirely taxed. In 2015, we had 12,000 euros tax free. With the new tax we have half of the single, only of the basic. Outside the environmental, outside greening, out all the other subsidies. I mean, mercy! Where you were taxing with n. 4172 all the subsidies, you're telling us now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u529	You say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u530	I'm not saying it, dear colleague. I gave you the circular of your General Secretariat of Public Income.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u531	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u532	We had 12,000 euros tax free, and now we're only going to basic. This is indeed a great achievement. I am voting for and I support this bill and I call on you to contribute positively to making a cooperative movement, ladies and gentlemen. You, too, have knowledge of the PASOK colleagues and other colleagues. Contribute. Don't just stand up for the opposition. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u533	Mr. Sevastakis has the floor. He's the last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u534	Thank you very much, Mr President. I know you're in a hurry. I would like to say that the crisis of cooperatives has become a crisis of the cooperative idea, namely, structural problems, communism problems, problems of co-existence and pheasyness have pervaded, dissolved, undermined, weakened the cooperatives and thus the cooperative ideology. This bill seeks to bring about, to create a reversal to this momentum, to strengthen healthy cooperatives and - I will take advantage of that - which you said in your prototype, Minister, at the end of my speech - and to clear up the landscape by creating the possibilities of a new cooperative operation, that is to say, new shapes outside the traditional typologies, which will give impetus to what we all have on the issue, the upsizing of agricultural production. The cooperative movement is the tool for raising agricultural production in terms of health, originality and cultural peculiarity. We know, very well, that the other side is multinationals, and I think that no one in this Chamber wants it, that is, it does not want a monoculture of multinationals, which overdeterminates agricultural production and products. Speaking last and stressful that the president wants to fly for Thessaloniki, if I'm not mistaken, I have to shorten and concentrate. From the three regions, Mr Michailides and Mr Dimitriadis, and the rest of us from Kozani, have tried to improve Article 32, which concerns us, concerning our own regions, and to give him greater stability in the wording and not to act disrespectfully and as a threat to the institutional framework which is in place and which determines the cooperatives in our regions, namely the mastic producers of Chios, Kozanis and the wine producers of the Samos Community. I think that a great deal of improvement has been made, but we need to know: Institutions in the Greek Parliament are constantly being reconstructed, since they are entering the big national collective bargaining. We need to know that every institution needs to strengthen and signify both from practice and from the organisation and from the citizen and, of course, from the political system. Therefore, every institution, every bill is pending and we need to regain it in practice all the time. I mean, the cooperative idea, which is suggested by the bill, has freedoms, has outstanding elements. There's inventiveness, smart agriculture. We know, very well, that new agriculture will not be a massive vertically integrated agriculture, but it will be a smart, intelligent and multifaceted agriculture and that its fundamental elements are two, not only the originality of the product, but also the aid to exports, the movement of the product. On this, then, Minister, I will take advantage of your prototype, where you said that you will help the cooperatives that stand. On the financial point - because there are financial pressures on cooperatives - both in the field of exports and in the field of institutional aid so that cooperatives can help farmers and in their operation, I would also like you to commit yourself here - in your dentistry you must do so - to this structured, clean aid. We must win again honest, reliable, lasting, enduring cooperative movement because we are interested in the product, because we are interested in the product culture, because we are interested in the culture of production, because we must bet this on the part of all together as a political system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u535	Thank you, Mr. Sevastakis. Now those of the rapporteurs and the special speakers want to take a second word, with an economy of time. Two-three minutes, I think, that's enough to develop your views. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u536	Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate in the committees and in plenary there were quite a few of them, almost all, Members of Parliament. Through the procedures and through the discussion of both the bodies and the parties, changes have arisen, which we too consider to be for the benefit of cooperatives, changes that make the bill more operational. On the other hand, however, we have not avoided pointless criticisms, above all, on the part of the parties of the old governments. New Democracy and the PASOK, with short memory and in their opinion, focused on what does not correct this bill, but they have not been mentioned at all in the past, a past, which has helped to devaluate the concept of cooperative in the eyes of the rural world, but also in the whole of society. What has happened in the cooperative space over the past twenty-five years is more defamatory about the idea of cooperatives than glorifying about society and the rural world. A number of colleagues have recognised the real tragic situation in the cooperative area. This is to their honor, but it's a little hypocritical. It is hypocritical about the political responsibilities of previous governments and even more hypocritical because while you recognise this situation and therefore your responsibilities, you are voting against this draft law. It makes sense, ladies and gentlemen, to step on two boats. It makes sense to feel uncomfortable, with bills like this, firstly, because you cannot escape your responsibilities, and secondly, because the social economy does not belong to your side and it is not part of your plan. In fact, we have heard a promise from New Democracy about a liberal bill on cooperatives that will replace this one. It's two words that don't match the same sentence. And that's exactly our difference. The social economy and cooperation close their mutual assistance, cooperation, solidarity and mutual effort to promote and defend common interests. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, unlike the opposition believes, modernises the cooperative. It has elements which will help the organisations themselves to follow the new era, without, however, distorting their social character. The position of the Director-General or the Director-General is introduced to the large organisational enterprises with a large turnover, while at the same time he trains the members of the cooperatives. The cooperative is invited to have a budgeted plan, which is drawing up and depositing it openly. These are some of the elements that bring about a new air and we hope to combine the experience of the last century, which collaborate with modern forms of business. I shall refer for a moment to PASPEZENS. PASPEGES has not performed the role assigned to it. The cooperatives' problems testify to it. It was against farmers last summer, supporting 'yes' in the referendum and therefore the measures which were basically afflicted by the small farmer. We are stopping the illegal state funding, but we are not abolishing it. Respecting the autonomy of the cooperative movement, we do not anticipate their precise institutional representation. That remains to do the movement itself. We put the basis, the form of organization. The way and shape will decide democratically, through its own procedures, the cooperative movement. An important bet for the revitalization of the space is the restoration of the confidence of the co-operative of the state and society. Previously, there was the supervisory advisory authority in the Agricultural Bank, with the aim of informing and controlling the cooperatives. Farmers trusted them. This gap of confidence we want and we're trying to fill. The aim is the autonomy of the cooperative, but not to move their fingers, which, through the overcompensation of the cooperatives, led the cooperatives to be entirely dependent on subsidies and subsidies. So, when they were designed to sell the Agricultural Bank, they gave the charismatic shot at the cooperatives and the rural area. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to stress something about an unfair and extremist neoliberal view and I am talking about women's cooperatives. I would like to stress, as a woman who has worked in a mixed cooperative, that the market judges the possible and productive market, as our colleague from the Centro Association has informed us. But there are also equal opportunities for men and women. There is an attempt at gender equality, precisely because of failures and unfair distribution of market profits towards women. The agricultural cooperative of the Zagora, from which I come, closes a hundred years of uninterrupted operation. It has the "Zagorin" apples that you all know. It's one of the healthy cooperatives. I shall mention a typical example here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u537	Very soon, however, if you wish, by example.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u538	Vice President of the association is a woman.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u539	Hey, good job.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u540	Well done. Did he become a vice president with this law?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u541	That's exactly why I'm stressing it. With the law we will help other women to take these positions. In conclusion, I should like to refer to two very important amendments. The first is, obviously, for migrant land workers. It was a bet for us, many years ago, and all these years we had a lot of facts, which only proud do not make us. The exploitation of economic migrants was a blow to human and labour rights. At the same time, the various "Manoladas" throughout the country had made us world-known for the violation of the rights of migrants - land workers and as young slaves living in fear of the employer, the police and deportation. That ends today. From now on, work and life with dignity. It was something that we had promised the farmers who could thus increase their costs, which were very necessary to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u542	The expenses are not those. Costs are 24% VAT. Costs are insurance contributions. Costs are the abolition of the oil tax, taxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u543	It's very important. Work is the largest part of the costs to farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u544	Don't interrupt, please. Don't interrupt, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u545	24% of VAT is VAT on agricultural supplies. Ladies and gentlemen, they are deducted from VAT by farmers. They're not costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u546	Oh, they're not? All right! They don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u547	Of course. VAT is not a cost to farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u548	Please don't interrupt. Finish it, Mrs. Papanaceu. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u549	Shutting down...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u550	Are the farmers not in trouble? Will you tell them that to Volos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u551	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u552	Does the farmer have the liquidity today to pay 24%?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u553	He's got it. When he's cooperative, he has the liquidity at his disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u554	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u555	So you approve 24%? That's a good point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u556	So, that's why the cooperatives...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u557	Don't answer that, Mrs. Papanatsiu. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u558	Can a farmer have the liquidity to grow and pay 24%?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u559	All right, all right, Mr. Comrade. Complete your speech, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u560	Did you transfer liquidity, VAT from 13% to 23%, when their outputs are all at 13%? Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u561	Colleagues, we are not talking safe, but on the basis of experience, acquired in production. We do not care about political feasibility and the temporary benefits. We're not talking like collaborative academics. We speak as partners, as people, who are involved in production and who will be involved after leaving the seat of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u562	Thank you. Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor. If you're kind as soon as possible, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u563	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing our interventions on behalf of the New Democracy, I would like to point out, once again, that for the New Democracy agricultural cooperatives are free, voluntary democratic expression of a private initiative for natural persons to cooperate with each other in order to achieve business activity. They give the opportunity to create economic units by seeking economies of scale at all stages of production activity collectively, thereby strengthening their negotiating power with the potential to intervene in the market for the benefit of their members. Through this two-day debate, New Democracy has therefore recorded their own positions, which are obviously different from those of the government majority. We believe that cooperatives should operate within a framework and decide on the houses of their own people on the basis of their statutes and on the basis of the decisions of the general assembly. It is no coincidence that no one in the previous laws has been made for the days of a New Democracy. Why? Because our logic is different. The cooperative movement cannot be guided by laws. It is an entrepreneurial activity that, I think, the state must start and end by intervening in a context in which they must move, in order to protect co-operation in what they want. Here, then, you, Minister, have heard, after this debate, from both colleagues in the New Democracy and from the whole opposition - you have not changed very much. For example, the production, processing and commercial activity of cooperatives has not been guaranteed. In the 20th you did it thirty - the founding members - you did it again twenty. I mean, we're going around without making any substantial changes. I said about this, that these producers, who go to the cooperative and the cooperative, by putting on some impurities, must be ensured, do not register them. This must be guaranteed, the rights and the cooperatives, not just in closed groups. This is how the interests are protected, not by putting one/3 of the crusade crosses, to express all views. What opinions? Soon, we'll also be putting extra-secret ballots down. - Where? - to cooperatives. What do we have to share? What do they have to share?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u564	Isn't that so long?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u565	Interest in everyone is common. And that's what they need to see and not make them differentiate. We are motivating them to fight and not to unite their voices and to negotiate better. You deleted this famous "successful work" that was being paid. Fortunately, you put it a little differently. The two terms of office remained, of course, for the presidents. We insisted that the two terms should not exist. You said, of course, that they would not have retroactive power, as was self-evident. But, from now on, I imagine after three and six years, another government will change that. So let us not worry about the presidents who exist today. This right will not be deprived of it for a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u566	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u567	All right, we made a commitment on some spoons. Let's change them a little now, Minister. Tell me what you're gaining? There's nowhere else to be restricted. We have now found ourselves to tell the Presidents of the district cooperatives that they will have one term, two terms of office and alas? All right, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u568	And the President of the United States of America took office!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u569	That's right! It's a very good comparison! You are similar to the President of the cooperatives with the President of the United States who cannot perform a third term. That's right! It's a very successful comparison. Good for you! I have heard earlier that you are uncomfortable when we tell you that you do not know from a special economy and from a special initiative. Yeah, but the law says that. Prove us to the contrary, to applaud you. I told you you were taking steps. Obviously! You haven't been left in the state planning. Don't be afraid! We're not afraid communism will come either. No one said that from the New Democracy colleagues. But you have left the state planning and come to me today and tell me that the statute will provide for trade with third parties, quantity and conditions. But, well, who can guarantee - and I am addressing colleagues in the region - that next year will also have the same quantity of production? The same applies to prices. Who can guarantee that he will have the same prices of time and time or the same demand, that someone will have it in the statute and that he can say that I will bring you this quantity every year? How can you guarantee that? Don't you understand? And you come here and say that it's what we used to say to you and say - you're tempting me too - "The line says it, let's go, let's go." So get out of this line!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u570	Excuse me, but we wouldn't hold him for a hundred years if we didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u571	Excuse me, but we're talking about a percentage of production. We are not talking about the whole production! Finally! It's not possible! Read what we're writing in!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u572	No, I am talking about Article 23, which says '...with regulation, the volume of trade to third parties is laid down in the statute'. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u573	He can't just apply! He must sell his products too. And that's his main job. That's the basic thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u574	All right, if you think it's right, vote for it! We just disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u575	He can't just want statements. Production cooperative we want!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u576	But you are not clear to us, Minister, what exactly will these wonderful members - investors - do not go through the door or window - and what are their activities? Are the partners finally working for these members - investors who will finally put the money? You left that a little bit as if it was something very good. But you did not explain that to us. I would like you to tell us something more, such as what exactly the activities will be. Of course, we will see it in the next few weeks, as we will see for who you did it for. Let's also see those investors who wanted the law to go to the cooperatives. And I now come to compelling. It's true you made some improvements. The change to article 32 means that you understood that there was a problem with what you were bringing. Of course, I don't know whether you understood it or if you were forced to understand the pressures from Chios, Samos, Santorini and Kosani. But that's not what I'm interested in at the moment. But I'm saying, and I'm keeping you understanding that you should change it and change it. However, if you bring it, why don't you do it right? You say again in the amendment, in the regulation, that the forced partnerships and associations of them are being transformed by a decision of the Ministers. We said no! We said that when there is a decision of the general assembly of the cooperative that wants to be transformed into an agricultural cooperative, the general assembly will decide. Why is the Minister confusing again? Is the Minister getting out again? This scares us that something else you're going to do again. Since we may be wrong and you may understand the problem - I see that I am well-meaning - I would say get back Article 32 today, do not put it in a vote and let it study better. And if you really mean what you have brought to the regulation, we should do better and bring them back. Because if their conversion depends on the members' decision or final decision - but let us see what decision - of the European Union, these two should remain open.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u577	Colleague, finish your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u578	I shall conclude, Mr President. On the issue of traceability, I did not hear you say anything. For the Minutes, I will leave you the market provision number 9 of 3 September 2009 - which happens to have my signature - which calls for traceability in agricultural products whether they are private or cooperatives. That's what's guaranteed. It's a very detailed layout. Take advantage of her, then! And don't tell me that it doesn't apply, because if the market provision is not applied, why should the law be applied? That's not an explanation! There has been an order since 2009. Take advantage of it, and I would ask you very much to incorporate it in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Georgios Vlachos presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned market provision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For training, I would like to make it clear once again that we are not opposed to training. But, as we have said, someone else is paying to plan this training. Okay? Understood! So we can't agree. In Article 43 you understood the mistake with amateur fishermen, fortunately you corrected it, the article was withdrawn, no matter what. Therefore, I have no reason to add anything more. But you will find that there is a problem with veterinary surgeons, private individuals, free professionals, and you have brought in a regulation that says it again in the middle of the day. Either the veterinarians who were freelance or leave it a bit like this. But it can't be. Colleagues, public veterinary surgeons and free professionals, and their mission is different, it is legally different, they cannot do the certification. So here, you're confusing it, and of course, we'll see these effects in the next few weeks. As also, it is not understandable why you have brought so much excitement to zoo-friendly organisations with these regulations, which we do not know in the end and you have not explained exactly what they are aiming for. I would also like to say two last of these on the producer markets. You're bringing back producers' markets. We have told you that producers of conventional products and those of organic products cannot be together. And what did you guys do now? You have deleted who are there and you say 'the producer markets are being established'. What does that mean? What should we understand? That tomorrow morning, whoever is producers of conventional products or will you come and say 'and organic products'? But I beg your pardon very much, when we tell you so many days we shouldn't be together and you have a different opinion and you come here today and you cut it off and you let it mean, here, I'm very sorry, I can't mean and I won't mean. I do not agree with what I see. We're not voting for it. Identify it and assume your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u579	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u580	I shall conclude, Mr President, if you will excuse me. One last thing I'd like to say. You said you were introducing parttime work. We told you the other day. And it's not just the point, you know, how to approach ideological. You say'small and very small enterprises'. Either it's a small business and a very small business and it doesn't need a scientist, so you say it doesn't need a scientist or it really needs a scientist in this business, and it has to be there all the time. Because it is small and does not sell, for example, medicines or propagating material three hours a day or sells eight hours a day or twelve to say or sell at all and does not need to. Let's take our responsibility and make this scenery clear. I know why you're doing this. You're going to satisfy some people, I told you yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u581	But I know why you say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u582	Minister, don't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u583	No, I say it. I told you that you're going to make it easier for some units, which do not need any scientists. I, as a geopole, have no problem with it. I'm not approaching it as a syndicate. You would think that I would say "everywhere the geopole would go." If you don't need a scientist, don't go. But you do not say 'no', you say 'two hours a day', say good morning and good night and go out with the block and turn the villages. Well, these caragiozianis, we cannot adopt them. Clear words to be explained.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u584	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u585	Now we, Mr President, will vote against the bill. And in principle we voted against it both in the articles and as a whole. There are certain positive articles which I have said in my first speech. But they do not change the overall picture of the bill. The articles that mark - if you like - this government initiative and leave us no room to approach it. We will therefore vote against it both in principle and in the articles and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u586	Thank you, Mr Vlavo, rapporteur of the New Democracy. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Nikolaos Michos. Please, with time savings, as much as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u587	Thank you, Mr President, I will not need that much time. I shall begin with Article 4 on terms of recommendation. Ten members of the European Union are required in the European Union. I do not think that states like France, Spain and Italy have fewer farmers than we do have have much more. However, because they want to help them, they have the specific number for small areas, for small villages, so that they can promote their products. So, here in a village we have five farmers, what will the state do if they want to build a small cheese factory as a cooperative to promote their products. Won't he help them? So look at the areas very well, how many inhabitants are, how many are farmers, how many are farmers, to make the conditions for creation even better and help them much more. I've heard a lot about forced cooperatives, Article 32. We have many examples, such as for the Crocops of Kosani, for the winemakers of Samos, but we also have examples abroad, as the competitor, Elias Panayotaros, in Porto, Madeira, said. This is what the European Union has left it as it is. Why do you want to change it? On the other hand, forced cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives in Greece must become more, in specific areas and in specific products. I heard about the Chios magma too much. I agree. But why did no one hear from anyone here that the Turks from the other a few years ago had gone and they took a lot of chic's mastic trees to emblem across the street and make mastic trees. But it didn't produce, because this tree thrives only in Chios. I didn't hear anyone here talking. We have lost too many things, we have lost too many products, and as we go, we will lose everything. They're waiting across the street. The Canadians took the feta. Let's see what's staying in Greece. In France, cooperatives compete with each other, even on the packaging, to export. New Zealand has helped so much not only the cooperatives, but also the wine growers. It has financed new land markets and so they have been able and greatly developed their vineyards and their wines. They make very good wine, quality and 80% of the New Zealand economy depends on wine exports. Here, Minister, I will give you a small example. In our prefecture, in Karystos, you know very well that all of Karystia, from the Zarakes and down were all vineyards. There's no vine right now. They've given up all the vineyards. Do you know why? Because the state and previous governments have not helped them. Once the cooperative of Karystos did not have time to send wines all over Greece, it did not have time to send must in Volos and Northern Greece. And not only that, but the rest of the small producers - because I was a winemaker - when we were finished with the wine, we were going - I personally made a hundred and fifty tons of wine a year and I needed another thirty to forty tons - and we took more tons from Carystos. So, why all this turn away from the moment we have the earth, do we also have the people who love the earth? But we have no proper government to date to help all these people who have eaten their youth on earth. No one here has ever worked on the earth. Nobody knows what to say to wake up in the morning...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u588	Let it go. Why do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u589	No, let it go. Don't tell me, because I've been 12 years old at work, and I've been crippled since I was fourteen. Please. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u590	Let it go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u591	Please. You are talking about the resolution of cooperatives. What a resolution, Minister, when Mistro - I told you again and I will tell you again - until a few years ago they declared two and a half acres of pork corn, and the money took the lombs that were in the Evia or chunks of PASOK or of New Democracy, and shared them with some of their own, who had not put a single seed of corn. And as you know, Mistress - you know it very well - is a village that is in the grapemilla. What kind of reliefs are you going to do? Will anyone be tried for this? No one will be tried. As no one has been tried for our homeland today, so has it. So if you want to exalt yourself, start first from the ribbons and the chunks. But I don't think you're going to do it, because most of the PASOK ribbons and shredded dogs have come to you, all these trade unionists. You don't even talk, you don't even look. You have nothing to say. And if you want, I have names to give you for Mistro. I have names to give you. Will you do something? Will you send vows? Here, tell everyone in front. Nothing is going to do, because you're afraid of political cost. I'm not afraid of the political cost, and I'm saying it and I'm telling you regions. And if you want - I'm telling you again - I'll bring you names. From there on, if you want to do something good, the Agricultural Bank will come back to the state. You were "in" once. Now there's nothing to be heard. Why doesn't it sound like anything? Interesting? Don't you have the courage? Don't you have the power to fight the bankers? And if you want to do something else to help and cooperatives and farmers, you can not fund the parties, as we do, as our Chief Nikos Michaliakos said the other day, you can give this money to farmers, farmers, to cooperatives for further consolidation. Like, you shouldn't have recapitalised the banks with your government and that money went to all of these industries, to small and medium-sized enterprises, to small industries and craft industries to bring about recovery in Greece, to our home country. But unfortunately, you've continued what everyone else has done. That's all I had to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u592	Thank you, Mr. Micho. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and five educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Mykonos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are giving the floor to the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, Mr Michael Jeleigh. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u593	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, forty-nine years today from the dampering day of devastatement of democracy in our country, we must not forget that 'democracy, freedom and national pride are never a gift. It's an acquisition, and it's a match every day. It's a matter of permanent struggle," Andreas Papandreou. Talking these days about the bill on cooperatives, it was natural that a lot should be heard about the policy of co-government up to now in the agricultural sector. Firstly, a great deal of news is that after four and a half months, farmers will finally get this money they deserve, the Great Week, 650 million, the basic payment and greening. Notebook, the Great Week. I would say to you, Minister, that it is not a big Friday, because you are "cross" the agricultural sector with your policies, you do not need to show it so much. We heard here that you received an OPECE that couldn't work and fines came for the pastures. Do you know who managed them? Ms. Halkias as Vice-Chairman of OPEKEPE. Where's Mrs. Chalkia today? He is Secretary General at the Ministry of Labour and has the address of the management of European funds and other funds. We have heard that the policies of the memoranda implemented in previous years have brought desertification to the countryside. I would simply remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that by 2012 the PASOK Government which implemented the first memorandum did not impose a single policy against the agricultural sector, although we may have affected all the other social classes and groups. On the contrary, we have given more money to the agricultural sector. We increased VAT return from 6% to 11% and excise return from 120 million to 280 million. Why did we do that? Because, when we say productive reconstruction of the country - and it was heard here that this plan for the reconstruction of the country has never been heard to see what was prioritised and the primary sector - we had chosen that the rural economy - one of the main pillars of our country, together with the tourism sector - should be supported. As for these measures that you say, on the one hand, tax, on the other hand VAT, on the other hand, the advance tax payments and, in the short term, you will be beaten by ballots, now that you are going to go to the village holidays, ask farmers to see what messages they will give you for this tax-suppressive policy and tax-paying with the OGA. On the other hand, a bill is coming today. I also stressed in my protology that we should be particularly careful to give the farmer this development tool that will help him to produce. Cooperatives are the creation of need. It is a combination of people with common interests, equal to each other, to operate within an institutional framework. What did we hear here? What'd you bring? We hear from one for six and a half thousand cooperative seals, for paid, for only twenty. What does the bill provide for? Is there anything new? So, what do you bring, so I can understand? The co-operatives' register, do you bring it? It was brought by Law 4015/2011. With Law 4015 of the six and a half thousand cooperative seals, I knew eight hundred were identified. Today they've reached the thousands. So, that tool was there. What are you doing now? In order to identify a cooperative through the national register, you want three years of plan, you want and when the board will meet, you want what transactions it will do and who it will deal with. You want a suffocating state, appalling, so that it cannot breathe the cooperative movement while we have debated and agreed that one of the pathogens was the incontinental state which imposed the political system in question on the cooperatives. On the other hand, we hear that the cooperatives were called upon to implement the laws passed by the Greek Parliament. I'm talking about the law of 1993 and 2006. And now you're saying that the cooperatives have to pay. Why are the cooperatives responsible? Cooperatives gave it away? Didn't the governments give these? There's all the time in the state. It is your fault, Minister, to negotiate with the European Commissioner, Mr Hogan. If you cannot do this, do not come in advance to say that it is the fault of others to justify the failure to negotiate with Europe. Oh, no. From 1993 until today, the Greek state has not paid these recoverys. If they pay them now, the responsibility is purely yours. It seems that in terms of recovery you are kings of the king. And for the first time, you voted for recoverys, as I said before, and for the package that was heard here that was given in 2009 by PASOK. Mr Hatzigakis' 500 million was not given by PASOK. You know the way they were given, but again here you overreacted yourself, running to make these recoverys, improvising yourself. As far as the bill is concerned, I have said that, as it comes, it does not bring anything new out of two agencies. It comes in order to make it easier for you to control even more an area in which you do not have any access or you will never have, as you did in GFCM yesterday. The 500 representatives didn't have three to download combinations. Will you now have a crusade here and a third on both terms? Are you going to redistribute persons? But what are you doing? You're currently bringing in the training agency here. I said it all along. A man pays someone else's gonna run. Bring the property management organisation to create other boards. You're missing an important opportunity today. And what is this important opportunity? To really become a development tool. Yes, we agree that something needs to be done about the cooperative movement, as the Constitution provides to support and develop. However, you are making a stitching of provisions of all cooperative laws, from Law 602 to Law 4015, completely thrown out. Most of them are uncooperative. And since we're talking about reorganising the cooperative, I'll tell you one thing. Tell me you inside the bill where the arrangement for reconstructing and developing the cooperative movement is? In fact, while it is provided for in the Banking Code - Article 99 and its next - for private companies, nothing is foreseen in relation to cooperatives. I have pointed this out to you in committee too, and I have also tabled a legislative proposal for the procedure for the resolution of agricultural cooperatives - five pages - and I repeat it in the Minutes. Even now it is not too late to adopt it. There is a provision for the resolution at last of the cooperative movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u594	Complete your speech, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u595	I shall conclude, Mr President. In relation to the forced cooperatives - because you speak and say that it is only twenty cooperatives - that is not only twenty cooperatives, there are far more cooperatives who are healthy today in the country at the primary level and at the level of anonymous partnerships, which you do not recognise second ones as cooperative schemes - and I put this in place, that you do not recognize them - but by wanting to deceive the institution even further, you say it is only twenty. Do you want me to list you thirty, right now? Even where are leaders on the market at both Greek and European level? They owe - it says - three and a half billion. They owed it, yeah. You have, however, forgotten about what guarantees the private sector owes us and how much the private sector owes it at last. Let's see these comparable sizes. In conclusion, I would like to say about the compelling of the forced cooperatives that - beware of - are not any cooperatives, are very healthy cooperatives that today play an important role in the market both at Greek and European level. Unfortunately, you again bring what you brought. You know that you have accepted an amendment, it is even worse. And nobody accepts it. In other words, you go save and well to dismantle healthy cooperative schemes that the producers - members of these cooperatives want. As I said in my prototype, because this bill does not bring about anything new, it does not help the cooperative movement to develop, but, on the contrary, you want it completely controlled, under state guardianship, whatever is relevant to the cooperative in terms of the provisions of this bill, we do not vote on them. As regards the amendment that has been tabled on the employment of illegal immigrants in agricultural occupations...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u596	Irregularities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u597	So I wouldn't say no. We simply need to be careful not to create new conditions for new flows of illegal immigrants in the country. I would say if we could add: 'Those who are in the country today'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u598	We have limitations, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u599	Good, Mr. Jelloney. Thank you. Mr. Moraitis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u600	Thank you, Mr President. It seems that the attack on poor medium-sized farms has no end. No expiry date. With the law - plundering for insurance, you will drive thousands of poor medium-sized farmers, uninsured today, without a pension tomorrow. With the law you bring to tax, we will have a new tax on farmers, livestock farmers, fishers. We'll have a further attack on their already looted income. The increase in VAT to 24%, which you are preparing, in means and supplies, is an increase that will be added to the huge increase that you made under the third memorandum, which you have taken the VAT on the goods purchased by farmers from 13% to 23%, as well as the abolition of the refund on oil and others. Looks like you don't have a stop. Now, I shall refer to some articles in the bill that we did not have time to put, to the rest, we shall be voting on. In Article 2, where the general cooperatives are, you have, of course, changed from three to five. We are clearly saying that they will be subject to competition from monopolistic rural enterprises, bank lending, and their real needs cannot be judged either. Besides, the issue of the social inequality of women and private exploitation is not dealt with, as we said yesterday, with spoon sweets and artifacts. Objectively, women's cooperatives are integrated and subject to the ironic laws of the exploitive capitalist economy. Article 6 lays down conditions for natural persons to become members of the agricultural cooperative. Other cooperatives and other legal persons may be involved in agricultural cooperatives. In particular, we see in this article that you are opening the doors wide to investors entering the cooperative and anonymous companies. Article 9 refers to the co-operative capital and the cooperative share. It provides for a formal equality of the members of the cooperative: a member, a portion, a vote. Of course, this equality is unreserved and it is also misleading. Any benefit of the partners from the operation of the cooperatives is not dependent on the share, but on the size of the individual exploitation of each member, i.e. on the volume of agricultural production. If, for example, the operation of the agricultural cooperative reduces the cost of agricultural production because it buys cheaper products, because it produces more products, it is the big farmer, because it consumes more agricultural supplies and because it has greater agricultural production. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If the operation of the agricultural cooperative achieves higher selling prices for members' products, because it will be better negotiated, the large shareholders and the large producers in the cooperatives will still benefit. Now in Rule 16, you have made a change with regard to the terms of office of Presidents. We say that this does not guarantee the economic viability of cooperatives or solve the problem. Instead, we have, for members of the Supervisory Board and for members of the Board of Directors, exterminate penalties regarding negligence. We say that penalties should not be so severe, especially for these misconduct. We also have penalties here if they are not trained. For forced cooperatives, despite the change you have made, the purpose of this article does not change, it leaves the door wide open to abolish the forced cooperatives. We are tabling statements to you, which have been given by a series of forced cooperatives. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned statements, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In Article 37, where there are producer groups, producer organisations and associations of producer organisations, you normally implement the common agricultural policy, the European Union's own regulations. We would, however, like to focus particularly on three amendments tabled by our party, which all concern serious problems for farmers, for workers in the clearing cooperatives or in the PASPEZ that are being abolished. You didn't accept anything. We didn't have any delusions about you accepting them. It's classic your policy. The interests of the big farmers are also served by you and the previous ones in the directions of the European Union, the common agricultural policy. Now you've found some cheap excuses, Minister. What did you tell us? You told us that they were other ministries and at the same time you accepted five different ministries' amendments. In my village, Mr Minister, this is called'strong with the engagement'. That's exactly what you did. But in particular, we want to focus on an amendment concerning the criminalisation of the struggles of poor farmers, workers, self-employed people, because this amendment has a history. On 25 February, he met at the Maximos Mansion a delegation from the Pan-Hellenic Block Committee with Mr. Tsipras. Among the other things that have been discussed, it was the request of small and medium-sized farmers to stop the farmhouses and the persecutions they are being persecuted by previous racing mobilisations. The Prime Minister has made a personal commitment to push this forward in the House, and there was also an announcement from the Prime Minister's office. Within a few days the Communist Party of Greece tabled an amendment to the Greek Parliament to a bill calling for persecution not only to be stopped against farmers but also to the workers, the self-employed, who are being chased by justice for their participation in mobilisations. On 3 March the Government rejected the relevant amendment without even explaining why it did so. It reveals that it is the government's choice, like the previous ones, to hold on to hostage fighters, farmers, workers, self-employed persons who participated in mobilisations in their area. It is an option to criminalise labour, popular mobilisation, as did previous governments years, so that capital can more easily terrorise and suppress struggles. And because I see Mr Papadopoulos here who said that he could support this amendment yesterday, Mr Papadopoulos, in Larissa, fighters of Tyrnavos were tried in six months in prison with a two-year suspension, with a government of SYRIZA. And within these farmers were officials of local administration. Former vice mayor was the president of the rural club, the president of the agricultural cooperative. Of course, such actions, with the courts and penalties, will not damage the fighting farm. Because their struggle is a fair fight, it's a survival struggle. In conclusion, I would like to say on an amendment with a general number of 340 and a special 43, which opens the roads wide open to NATURA areas, as you are committed to entrepreneurs, so that they can go there and create quarries and renewable energy sources. We are voting against the bill and we will be put to the vote on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u601	Thank you to Mr Moraitis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece. Mrs Catherine Markou, a special buyer from Potami, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u602	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will start with Article 2 and say a word about women's cooperatives. The problem, of course, is not the number of members, but the adoption of positive measures and incentives for rural women to participate in women's cooperatives or not. This is all about ministerial decisions and we see. In Article 4, the number of members, the twenty members you ask are nowhere to be found. Everywhere the minimum number is small, if any. We insist that it should be uniform, without exceptions and small, so that the creation of cooperatives is not prevented anywhere. The problem will be solved by the market. The obstacles you put add nothing. If you want, give more incentives for mergers. Article 7: Registration and withdrawal of members. Of the greatest articles and no reason. Let the cooperatives decide by which procedure they will write members. I'm going to the management articles. The landscape is still blurred, and I see no real safety net, if that is what you are seeking, rather than bureaucracy and flattery. Again we start with the exception of the Supervisory Board for the small cooperatives that you arbitrarily place them with thirty members. For the general assembly an innovation is introduced, according to your statement, with the representative general meeting which will have four hundred, 80% representativeness, i.e., when partnerships with thousands of members abroad have one hundred conventions. It is a complex and incomplete arrangement that I do not know exactly what it serves. Let the cooperatives regulate it under their statutes. Article 16: A ceiling shall be placed on the terms of office of the Presidents of the Boards of Directors and of the HR. Other innovation. This is not only contrary to the principle of the democratic administration of cooperatives, but also to their own commercial function. Again to punish the faces, you're hurting the institution. If an administration is incapable, it will be expelled from the cooperatives themselves. If he is acting illegally, the courts shall take over. You make it compulsory to appoint a Director-General for a rural cooperative with a turnover of more than EUR 1 million and define how to choose by means of a notice, even published in a local newspaper. These are first things for the trade union and indicative of your interventional concept of cooperatives. Then you are making cooperative education compulsory, after two years, to be funded by cooperatives from their surpluses. What surpluses? I don't know. The cooperatives themselves undertake the training of their members, as is the right thing to do. Now, you are robbing them, claiming any funding available from the European funds. Article 17 concerns antiquities. Involve judges and lawyers, so that there are no smugglings, but you still introduce exceptions. In Articles 18 and 21, concerning supervision, you are talking about an assessment of the regular declarations of cooperatives. What kind of evaluation will that be? And if the evaluation is bad, what will the consequences be? You don't say anything about all this. In Article 20 you are making it compulsory to submit a three-year operational plan, but you say that it will only be checked for its completeness. Then why would they have submitted it to you? The association is accountable to its members for their business activities, not to the Ministry. When it comes to giving subsidies or state funding, then you can set your terms. You are claiming the cooperative, again, with obligations that even commercial companies do not have and, if necessary, affects commercial secrecy. In Article 21, for financial control by auditors, again, agricultural cooperatives with less than thirty members are excluded from the annual submission. What kind of strict control is this? In Article 28, in criminal proceedings, remove penalties for those who supervise. Is the Ministry excluded from criminal responsibilities? I'm going to go through Article 29 for the motives. There is neither a new motive nor a substantial incentive. They're less than the present ones. And you didn't give us a picture of the new tax. Article 32 concerns forced cooperatives. The situation here is special and needs attention. On the one hand, we cannot ignore the problems that exist with European legislation or the decision of the European Court of Human Rights on the Cooperative of Samos. On the other hand, a violent dismantling of these cooperatives, with a simple ministerial decision, will certainly cause problems with outstanding obligations and contracts with suppliers. The modification that you brought does not make any sense. You are talking about 'a irrevocably convicted judgment'. Which court? Clearly speak. And finally, is it possible to say that you can dismantle for national legislation? When you decide to bring this national legislation to the House, then we will discuss the matter. It's an ID, don't you understand? Articles 34 and 37 concern interprofessional organisations and producer groups and organisations. These are the only conditions recognised at the level of the European Union and under the new CFP and even financial incentives are given to strengthen them. As far as inter-branch organisations are concerned, instead of introducing an organised framework, such as the other countries, you are confined to a few lines. As for producer groups, the article, as it is written, needs decryption. I talked about the cooperative education fund yesterday. Article 40 concerns the digital base for the traceability of cooperative products. Here, you must explain why it is only for cooperative products and not for all agricultural products in general. Article 41 relates to the DDIAGE and seven unpaid positions on the board of an organisation without clear object and usefulness, and there is already a relevant address in the Ministry. I am going through the various specific provisions that have been explicitly invented in the bill, without any cohesion. Article 46 for the purchases of producers is positive. You added the growers to the Farmers Market. But we want you to see what they really want. In Article 47 we have 'blocks' and in the nurseries. First time left. And why just in the nurseries? Article 48 concerns the prescription of pesticides. A balance must be found between the need to control the abuse of pesticides and the needs of farmers. The draft law provides for no obligation to prescribe, in advance, packages covering areas less than one acre and where they do not have a lot of acute toxicity. This does not, however, make sense to protect the environment, as many pesticides with very low acute toxicity have a bad effect on the environment. On the other hand, why would a farmer who wants to wear an innocent field greater than one acre, have to pay for prescribing? The best thing would be to provide for a system equivalent to the system of anthropo-pharmaceuticals, where there are medicines that need prescriptions and medicines that are sold without a prescription. The Ministry should draw up a list of pesticides, with the exception of prescribing in advance, with simple on-site version of a prescription from the store's geoponder and medicines for which prescribing is required. We call, in other words, for you to bring a comprehensive solution instead of fragmentary arrangements. Finally, for Articles 50 and 51, for the transitional and repealing provisions, you must provide a clear answer for the PASPEGES and the representation of Greece in Europe. I shall start with the Ministers on the amendments. First, Ministry of Health: in paragraph 6 you are talking about deleting three billion euros of EEAS to the hospitals. The Minister should tell us if it concerns all hospitals and more specifically the "Papageorgiou" of Thessaloniki, because EOPY owes more than 200m euros to the hospital, plus 6 to 7m euros new hospitals every month, while the hospital has received zero grant for late payment. We are voting in favour of Amendment No 345 on overtime. We cannot, however, emphasise that the delay in adopting the budgets must finally be stopped. I would like to say that your insistence on the new useless but costly structures is a matter for the Ministry of State's amendment. You create another special secretary for the communication planning of the refugee. The cost is 114,000 euros. Do you want to say that this work cannot be undertaken by the Directorate-General for Communication or by the Ministries' Press Offices? She's provocative. As far as Parliament's amendments are concerned, we agree with Amendment No 338 on the granting of hayaloos, on the grounds that we are before the tourist season. It concerns a transitional period and the legislation which the JRC draws up and the relevant decision will be taken. The amendment, with a general number 340, concerns road construction in NATURA areas. We consider it to be a photographic provision and it concerns specific areas, and that is why we are negative. The overall amendment concerns the employment of irregular residents of foreigners in agricultural work. Indeed, it is something the rural world asks for. And because all the others you promised the farmers, you took them back, you said to bring this arrangement to us as humanitarian. Because you're going to exaggerate them, you said to gold the pill with an increase in the deductible costs. We are very sceptical. The conditions you make are inadequate. We are essentially talking about suspending expulsion indefinitely, about foreigners, with a simple responsible statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u603	Complete your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u604	I'm done. There is no time limit for this employment to last. A month? Six months? Five years? There is no record of these people when they entered the country and from where. You know that Law 3907/2011 already provides for the possibility of employing foreigners in a deportation process. Your Government has issued the relevant FCH as of December. Why do you not apply this provision? In this form we cannot support the amendment. With regard to Amendment No 349 and Amendment No 350, we are positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u605	Thank you, Mrs Marcus. The reason is the special speaker from the Independent Greeks Mr Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u606	Thank you, Mr President. I listened very carefully to all my fellow Members - and there were several - who preceded them. What came to my attention was that speakers from both parties, who are solely responsible for this situation in the country, but also agriculture, were the most aggressive, without any trace of self-criticism. If possible, ladies and gentlemen! After you knew so well how to deal with agriculture, why did you get it where you got it? In 1980, when the 'EEC and NATO' PASOK took over the same union, agriculture was at 21% with 10.5 billion GDP. PASOK in 1990 reached 11.5%, that is to say, half of agriculture. And then New Democracy took over. Of course, until 2014, which Samaras handed over, there was a change in PASOK - New Democracy - PASOK. And in the end they both ruled. And they delivered agriculture in 2014 to 3.5 billion. That is, in 1980 agriculture had 10.5 billion GDP and in 2014, thirty years later, they downloaded it to 5.5 billion. That is the effectiveness of these two parties. Those who move the finger. I, too, would expect New Democracy, at least, to be more responsible and really to contribute with a fertile opposition in order to get the economy back on track, to get agriculture back on track. You received the public debt at 120% and delivered it to 185%. Your policy was criminal. And I return to 3.5% of 2014 of agriculture - GDP participation - which is even less. Why should we bear in mind that 2014 was not a normal GDP - we had escaped normality in 2010 - but a GDP shrinked by 25%. In other words, in relation to the last period in which the country was operating, this 3.5% falls below 3%. That was their offer to agriculture, that was their offer to the economy. They closed off the Agricultural Bank. We have to see this at some point, because this government, apart from anything else, has the sacred debt, has the sacred duty to illuminate all the dark corners of those periods that brought our country here. Why have they closed down the Agricultural Bank? Because they made sure they loaded her with a great debt. It says here: 'The rough loans of the Agricultural Bank amount to a total of 5 billion'. I now use the exact words - so I read them - of the Minister responsible for combating interlocutory, the Minister of State, Panagiotis Nikoloudis. In fact, it was described as the biggest scandal of the Greek state. For one thing, 5 billion was the money, the loan and the loan. The Bank of Greece refers to a lending policy for eleven specific natural persons and companies, with no guarantee whatsoever, of an amount of one billion. And to tell you now another thing: the two parties have borrowed, both in loan and unscrupulously, from the Agricultural Bank as a whole of 200 million and something. The Agricultural Bank was delivered to Piraeus Bank. The immediately next bank from which the two parties made high lending is Piraeus Bank. Lucky? Not random. I won't give you any more time with this. However, it is our duty to highlight these things, because the Agricultural Bank was the bank that was a lever for agriculture, it was decoupling, it was the support and driver of the farmer. In this draft law, agricultural cooperatives are now shielded and revived on a healthy basis, democratic processes, transparency and control are guaranteed. Article 1 defines cooperatives as an autonomous association of persons, set up voluntarily, as a joint and democratic management operation for the promotion of common objectives. In the second article we have the incorporation of arrangements for women's cooperatives and the integration of women's entrepreneurship into the planning of local development in the region. In Articles 4 and 5, it is worth mentioning that the setting-up of cooperatives is simplified by registering the statutes in the register of agricultural cooperatives instead of complying with the judicial procedure. Article 8 introduces very important regulation, that is, the responsibility of the members even after they left on obligations that were created when they were members, which, together with the ban on membership of the agricultural cooperative in competitive activities, will make them viable and operational. Article 16 requires cooperative education through a state fund, mainly financed by the cooperatives themselves. In particular, it requires agricultural cooperatives to be made available for the training and training of the members of the agricultural cooperative from the balance of at least 2% of the surplus, which is also a resource for the state cooperative education fund. Training in know-how and new methods will enhance knowledge and enable producers – members to strengthen the comparative advantages of products and their cooperatives. Article 19 provides for the establishment of the National Register of Agricultural Cooperatives. The substance is the digital database of cooperatives, on the basis of which the organisations will be assessed, but they will also be protected. Subsequently, we see articles introducing criminal provisions aimed at preventing past practices that brought several cooperatives into obscurity and to the brink of dissolution. Let us remember that of the six thousand cooperatives actually operate around thirty, not more, with positive results. Also, pointing out the creation of a DIAGA agency and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u607	Complete your speech, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u608	I'm closing, Mr. President. Minister, we welcome the changes you have brought. We are voting in favour of the bill as a whole and in writing. I would, however, like to draw your attention to the milk issue. It is a matter that we need to see very seriously, because we have a problem with milk producers and especially with us in Macedonia, where we have many cow farmers and we need to make sure that we protect them, shield them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u609	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Before giving the floor to the Minister, Mr Kegeroglu has asked for the floor for a minute to raise a point. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u610	On the amendment to foreign employment, I would like to ask the Minister this: because in my opinion he could be safer in terms of what he predicts, so that there are no slave trade phenomena since the State does not choose and does not issue permits submitted by the workers themselves, but one employer brings them from within, because it poses this risk and because a joint ministerial decision is provided for, I would like to ask the Minister if he can make a statement that for those who come under the normal procedure - that is to say, the thought and will of the legislature is to employ those who are already in our country and not imported. The statement in the Minutes, I think, commits itself to the joint ministerial decision and there is no reason - because there is no time now to amend this thing - not to do so, if it is also the intention of the legislator. If it's not, it's another matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u611	Thank you. The reason for this is now - and it closes - the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostolos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u612	Ladies and gentlemen, after six, seven days a proposal has been heard by Mr Kegeroglu. It is indeed an issue that we will approach on the basis of, of course, the needs of the region. At the same time, we are making it clear that employment in the rural area will be done by means of a compulsory procedure. But, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the issue of the charging of financial corrections, that is what you say fines, recoveries, and so on. He wants a lot of conversation. I don't have the evidence here. I have promised you that we will have an in-depth debate in the Committee on Production and Trade. And, of course, there are the political responsibilities that exist, we will highlight them and because we have seen that things are confusing somewhere else, there may also be other responsibilities. We've got a long route ahead of us. And there, of course, it'll look like what one is doing, what another does, how he negotiates, how he claims, the old, the new ones. I'm leaving it. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, particularly the New Democracy and PASOK, you have not been tired of repeating the same and the same motto, that, in other words, we are intervening with the operation of cooperatives? You've said it so many times. Honestly, do we have to make it clear to each other what the cooperatives are? The cooperatives are neither clubs nor anonymous companies. Cooperatives are activities which, of course, are economical. At the same time, however, they are also of a social nature, an obligation for a social offer. You cannot understand this because your approach is completely different or you cannot understand that in cooperatives democracy must find its expression through specific commitments. We call it one vote per member, a third crusade. You realise that this now creates the prerequisites for coexistence, for solidarity to be identical with the functioning of democracy. These are our beliefs. Now, if you have different approaches - and because you really say that we are bringing innovative provisions, but these innovative provisions, when we talk about the issues of democracy's operation, you say they are not right - what to do? That is what we have and we believe in. In fact, it was your opposition, which I really have not seen yet, who is in favour of a bachelor in the rural area. I heard the river representative say it's a postponement of expulsion. A party that wants to be called democratic, so is approaching an issue that all farmers, the whole rural area, have? And it's not that he's emerged now, with the mobilizations. There have been years. And farmers want to be lawful themselves, of course, they want - because we give them that possibility - to use the bachelor to reduce what I have told you, the taxable material, to use it, in other words, in the cost of production. At the same time, we believe that a very large part of the farmers also want the democratic legitimacy of all these people. At last - indeed Mr Balaura said in his position the other day - is going to leave the strawberry and blood. So that's what I wanted to say to make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u613	Minister, tell us exactly what...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u614	I listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u615	Please don't interrupt. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u616	So I want to make one thing clear once again: I have told you since the start of the discussions - and this is my conviction - that when we discuss a bill in the committees and this whole procedure is done, we want there to be proposals. And, of course, from our side, we are available to make improvements. So you want to cancel the Members' role in this process? I have not been able to understand that. Where's the negative? The fact that there were issues, for example - because you raised it - about forcedness? It's a pretty serious matter. Was it not good that we talked about it, that we talked about it, that we changed the wording? And, of course, as far as the New Democracy itself is concerned, I am quite surprised that the parliamentary representative, Mr Brutsi, was put in a positive position, and the rapporteur, Mr Vlachos, said: 'No, we are not voting on this.' He did, in fact, request the withdrawal. So does this opposition attitude, which has taken you, have to stand aside, especially when it comes to matters that are very serious, such as rural areas? First of all, where do we seem to be dismantling the cooperatives? This is where I'm going to get you - it's a heavy conversation I'm going to say - and I'm going to say it's unbelievable. I say this because it seems clear that we do not dismantle cooperatives with Article 49(3), where we give the opportunity to agricultural cooperatives that have not been registered - and thousands of these cooperatives - and are in the process of liquidation, to seek the possibility within one year to merge with other active cooperatives. Do we dismantle the cooperatives or do we want to give them the possibility - if any - to be sound both through and through meetings with others to move forward? I didn't understand that thing. But let me also look at some of the provisions that have been wronged. You didn't approach them. For example, Article 42 solves a major problem in mountain regions with slaughterhouses. You know, there, in these areas, they leave the animals - with huge repercussions for both farmers and animals themselves - at very long distances to be slaughtered. We give the opportunity to small slaughterhouses - which is of little use - to be able to slaughter the animals there on the spot. It is a request for these areas, which we really need to accept, to help livestock farming. The issue of zoo-friendly organisations has been raised. I will repeat what I said before: Since the date of the draft law on pastures, where the provision was made and we have withdrawn it until we have completed the debate in committee, meetings have been held at meetings. Until I have reached the point of telling them, "I will lock you in a room, to give me a common reference to your position on zoo-friendly organisations". It has not been possible, as a result of the regulation we are bringing in, because there is a directive - what we call 'pilot' - by the European Commission, to comply as much as possible with this directive. This is because, in fact, a solution was not given to expressing the space. As far as producer markets are concerned: is it not time for farmers' producer markets to function now? All of us must bear in mind that, when the people's markets were founded, they were intended to help the consumer buy products cheaply - which are related to production costs - and, of course, to the farmer being more easily contacted with the consumer. That's what we're doing. From that point on, because the issue of separate markets has indeed been specifically raised by bio-engineers, we say very simply: in Athens, in Thessaloniki, in these areas there should be separate markets. See, however, in the small municipalities, in the region, if it is easy and possibly cost-effective to create two separate markets. Is it possible to use a market which will have a spatial planning for farmers - the biological, separately, the conventional ones - to be able to function? So, in consultation with regional and local authorities, we will see how we adopt it. We have taken this approach because farmers, producers and bio-farmers are right, but we should also see the consumer, who is good to be able in a large space where the particular people are separately involved, to be able to get the organic product, what he wants, but if his pocket does not allow it, to get the contract. Why deprive us of such a possibility? We will not, however, decide on this, but the local municipal authorities will decide on this. I would like to conclude by asking for something from all the Opposition and ignoring all the debate that has taken place, to close with the following point: the bill will not be cancelled because it cannot be implemented by its provisions. It will not be applied for the simple reason that if we do not solve the big problem, the burden on the cooperative space, these 3 to 3.5 billion that we have said, we will have a problem again. Consider that all the premises, whatever property they have on the part of these agencies at this time are largely located in the clearer. This means that the liquidator is in a process of divesting the particular property, because that is the purpose of the liquidation. We keep him from doing it. But the point is that we need to find a solution, see how all this property can cover how much of these debts. Of course, we are particularly interested in agricultural property to use. And I heard - and what I didn't hear! - for this organism that we're going to build that it's a place where we want to do trajectory, when before this organization was the famous "GREEN", which had taken two hundred and fifty overnight. So let's see that. I will address an invitation to all opposition parties, but we will put forward a specific proposal. So it will be solved, with this process, so that we can really get this big load out of the cooperative space and see that then things will be too easy to walk. Be well. The debate may have been intense, but I think it was quite useful to the rural area.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u617	Mr President, a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u618	Mr Vlavo, you have the floor, but please very soon. Just one clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u619	Yes, Mr. President. The Minister made a report. I would like to say that our position on Article 32 on forcedness, I think, has been very clearly expressed by me as rapporteur for the New Democracy. I think that Mr Brutsis said the same thing, but if the Minister understood some differentiation, let him keep what I said from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u620	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u621	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u622	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u623	Minister, in your protology you spoke of institutional, economic and other aid to the cooperatives that are viable. You didn't mention them. Who will they be? What direction?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u624	We are not going to open a second debate now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u625	Because he said it in his protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u626	Okay, maybe he'll repeat it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u627	Because at first we did have tax incentives in Article 29, we withdrew them to see the whole thing. In fact, cooperatives do need incentives. It's not just the eighteen. Eighteen are the ones that are economically viable, as we say, that is, they can meet all their obligations, they have no dues. But there are many more cooperatives - over a hundred - who have such a function that despite the existence of time-limits they can and serve farmers, they serve their members. We must keep them and keep them in support of them and through sustainability studies. That's our difference. In 1992 and 1994, all these arrangements were made with plastic viability. Here, as far as these organisations are concerned, we are talking about the potential for sustainability of such things as can be served. We will go in this direction and you understand that if these organisations acquire sustainability, then it will be much easier to have corresponding funding. The rural area has many problems and not all are solved with a button. He needs a lot of effort. And unfortunately, what we are seeing, particularly from the political parties, which have been responsible for everything that has been formed, is that they still have a negative attitude that I really cannot understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u628	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u629	I would like a clarification, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u630	No more, though. Last clarification, Mr. Jelloney.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u631	The Minister said, with regard to the labelling made by Mr Kegeroglu, that he accepts that it is a proper proposal. Does he agree or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u632	Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u633	Now, if you don't understand me, I can't do anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u634	The Minister answered. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is hereby declared adjourned: 'Agricultural cooperatives, forms of collective organisation of the rural area and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u635	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u636	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u637	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u638	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u639	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u640	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u641	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Agricultural cooperatives, forms of collective organisation of the rural area and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Their vote will be taken separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u642	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u644	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u645	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u646	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u647	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u648	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u649	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u650	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u651	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u652	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u653	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u654	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u655	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u657	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u658	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u659	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u660	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u661	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u662	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u663	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u664	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u665	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u666	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u667	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u668	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u669	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u670	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u671	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u672	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u673	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u674	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u675	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u676	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u677	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u678	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u679	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u680	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u681	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u682	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u683	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u684	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u685	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u686	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u687	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u688	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u689	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u690	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u691	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u692	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u693	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u694	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u695	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u696	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u697	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u698	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u699	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u700	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u701	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u702	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u703	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u704	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u705	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u706	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u707	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u708	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u709	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u710	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u711	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u712	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u713	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u714	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u715	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u716	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u717	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u718	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u719	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u720	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u721	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u722	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u723	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u724	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u725	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u726	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u727	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u729	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u730	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u731	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u732	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u734	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u736	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u737	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u738	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u739	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u741	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u742	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u743	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u744	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u745	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u746	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u747	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u748	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u749	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u750	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u751	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u752	Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 17 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u753	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u754	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u755	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u756	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u757	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u758	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u759	Article 17 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u760	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u761	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u762	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u763	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u764	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u765	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u766	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u767	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u768	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u769	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u770	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u771	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u772	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u773	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u774	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u775	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u776	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u777	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u778	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u779	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u780	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u781	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u782	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u783	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u784	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u785	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u786	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u787	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u788	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u789	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u790	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u791	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u792	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u793	Article 22 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u794	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u795	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u796	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u797	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u798	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u799	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u800	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u801	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u802	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u803	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u804	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u805	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u806	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u807	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u808	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u810	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u811	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u812	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u813	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u814	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u815	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u817	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u818	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u819	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u820	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u821	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u822	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u823	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u824	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u825	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u826	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u827	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u828	Article 27 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u829	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u831	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u832	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u833	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept Rule 29, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u834	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u835	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u836	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u837	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u838	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u839	Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u840	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u841	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u842	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u843	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u844	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u845	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u846	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u848	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u849	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u851	Article 31 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 32 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u852	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u853	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u854	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u855	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u856	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u857	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u858	Article 32 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u859	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u860	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u861	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u862	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u863	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u864	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u865	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u866	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u867	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u868	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u869	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u870	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u871	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u872	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u873	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u874	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u875	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u876	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u877	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u878	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u879	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u880	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u881	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u882	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u883	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u884	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u885	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u886	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u887	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u888	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u889	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 38 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u890	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u891	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u892	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u893	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u894	Article 38 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 39 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u895	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u896	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u897	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u898	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u899	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u900	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u901	Article 39 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u902	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u904	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u905	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u906	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u907	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u908	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u909	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u910	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u911	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u912	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u913	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u914	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 42 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u915	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u916	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u917	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u918	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u919	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u920	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u921	Article 42 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u922	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u923	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u925	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u926	Article 43 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u927	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u928	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u929	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u930	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u931	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u933	Article 44 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 45 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u934	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u935	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u937	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u938	Article 45 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 46 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u939	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u942	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u943	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u944	Article 46 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u945	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u946	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u947	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u949	Article 47 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u950	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u951	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u953	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u954	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u955	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 49, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u956	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u957	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u958	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u959	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u960	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u961	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u962	Article 49 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 50 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u963	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u964	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u965	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u966	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u967	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u968	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u969	Article 50 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Before we move on to the amendments, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament of the Greeks, twenty-six students and students and three assistants of their teachers, from the 2nd Cryssis Vrysis Pellas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We tell you that you are in the middle of the voting process of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Does this House accept the amendment under general number 344 and a special number of 47 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u970	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u971	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u972	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u973	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u974	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u975	The amendment, therefore, by a general rule of 344 and a special 47, was accepted as it is by a majority and is included in a draft law as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under general number 345 and a special number 48 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u976	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u977	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u978	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u979	Therefore, the amendment by a general 345 and a special 48 was accepted as it has a majority and is included in a draft law as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 346 and a special number 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u980	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u981	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u982	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u983	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u984	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u985	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u986	Therefore, the amendment by a general rule of 346 and a specialist 49 has been accepted as a majority and is included in a draft law as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 347 and a special number of 50?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u987	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u988	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u989	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u990	The amendment by a general rule of 347 and a specialist of 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority and is included in a draft law as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of Nos 352 and 55 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u991	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u992	So the amendment by a general rule of 352 and a specialist 55 was accepted as it has a majority and is included in a draft law as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 338 and a special number 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u993	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u994	Therefore, the amendment under general 338 and special 41 was accepted as it has a majority and is included in a draft law as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted by a general number of 340 and a special number of 43 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u995	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u996	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u997	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u998	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u999	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1000	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 340 and a special 43 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number of 348 and a special number of 51 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1001	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1002	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1003	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1004	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1005	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 348 and a special 51 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 349 and a special number 52 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1006	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1007	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1008	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1009	The amendment, by a general number 349 and a special 52, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 350 and a special number of 53 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1010	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1012	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 350 and a special 53 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the President-in-Office of the Council. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1013	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1014	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1015	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1016	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1017	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1018	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1019	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Agricultural cooperatives, forms of collective organisation of the rural area and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and in articles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1020	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1021	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1022	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1023	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1024	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1025	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1026	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1027	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Agricultural Cooperatives, forms of collective organisation of rural space and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1028	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1029	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-21-S1-commons.u1030	With the consent of the House at 20.55 the sitting is closed for tomorrow morning 22 April at 10.00 on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
