ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 21 October 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotas Vranzas to the Minister of Finance about the VAT rate of 24% for live producing animals. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 110/17-10-2016 by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity about the government promises for the unique fertiliser industry in Greece. 3. The Question No 117/17-10-2016 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Finance, on the "scandal" sale of TRAINOSE in relation to the incomplete price of ECU 45 million. The euro. 4. The 116/17-10-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the withdrawal of a ministerial decision to abolish the right to grant the one-off staff of the hotel staff in the 20-year period. 5. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding the intervention of civil justice in the trade union movement by the decision of the Monomele of the Athens Court of First Instance, which annulled the 29th Congress of the Athens Labour Centre (May 2016). 6. The question by No 122/18-10-2016 of the Member of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the tram and metro projects in Piraeus. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question under number 123/18-10-2016 by Piratos II Pireos of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the treatment of the interference in the Municipality of Piraeus, Perama, Korydallos, Keratini - Drapetsonas, Nice - Agios Ioannis Rentis. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 121/18-10-2016 was raised by MP Kozani of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theokraktos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the recruitment of workers in the lignite unit "MTOLEMAIDA V" with transparent criteria from OAED's registers. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 111/17-10-2016 topical question by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiotas to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the initiation of the procedure for privatising the Egnatia Road SA, the concession of its road network and the issues that arise. 3. The question by number 118/17-10-2016 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the energy of national sanitation from the absence of the Greek flag at a meeting of the Prime Minister with the President of Turkey. 4. The 115/17-10-2016 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning parental equality - synonymous with children. 5. The question by No 126/18-10-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Food, concerning the destruction of the fires on Thassos island. 6. The question by No 124/18-10-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kossilis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the need to save the businesses and the professions of the insured persons of the OAU who have chronic insurance debts, as well as the need to review the amount of the fine imposed on any undeclared worker. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 119/18-10-2016 topical question by Independent MEP B' Athens Mr Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Health, on the shortcomings in medical machines that endanger the health and life of patients. 8. The 114/17-10-2016 topical and urgent question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Jason Fotella, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the violation of the Constitution for non-compulsory withdrawal of senior judicial officers. 9. The Question No 75/11-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the upgrading of the Messara Agricultural School in Heraklion. 10. The question by number 63/10-10-2016 of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the decommissioning of Rhodes from the cancellation of the establishment of the Department of Tourism, based in Rhodes and English-speaking sections of tourist studies, to be addressed to foreign students with tuition fees. 11. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the reduction of the national sovereign judiciary through the ratification of the CETA Agreement between Canada and the EU. 12. The question asked by MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Has Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport about the new burglary in the Theatre Museum. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 79/11-10-2016 by Z' Vice-Chairman of the Parliament and MP of the Athens I of Potamis Mr Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the regeneration of Rema Picrodafni in Attica Prefecture. 14. Observed. The Question No 80/11-10-2016 by Congressman Pireos of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the analogues of the Greek Police. 15. The question by number 76/11-10-2016 by MP Halkidiki of SYRIZA Mrs Catherine Iglezi to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the support of producers of green olives in the Prefecture of Halkidiki. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The question by No 68/10-10-2016 by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the decommissioning of the Greek Defence Systems. 17. The question by number 83/11-10-2016 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Ministers for Rural Development and Food and Finance, on compensation for the damage caused by the destruction of olive trees in the fire in Larissa Prefecture. 18. The question by number 69/10-10-2016 of the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the proposal - breath for red loans. 19. The 26/3-10-2016 topical question by the Independent Member of the Laconia Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Health on the procedure for selecting Directors to the National Health System (NSS). As the Secretary-General of the Government informs us, the timely questions to be debated are eight. The following are not going to be discussed: The first question under number 101/17-10-2016 of the First Circuit of the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Triantafylou, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the completion of the work of Marina Messology, will not be discussed due to the fact that Ms. Koudoura is not abroad. The tenth under number 54/10-10-2016 topical question by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition, Antonio Balomenakis, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the introduction of a framework to deal with the uncontrolled expansion of the phenomenon of all inclusive tourism, will not be discussed for the same reason. The fifth question, under number 108/17-10-2016, of the second-cycle question of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Sakis Bardalis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the hundreds of eighty-six employees of the New Carval Fertilizers plant in the Regional Unit of Kavala, who have been in racing mobilizations for five months, will not be discussed because Mr. Katrugalos is abroad. Also, the following questions will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion: The second, with number 94/14-10-2016, is a top-stage question of the new Republic of Athens MEP Mr. Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks concerning the provocative mood of 5,4 cm. In addition, the Council adopted a common position on the proposal for a Directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data. The third, with number 99-14-10-2016, timely question of the first cycle of the MEP Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the conduct of a thorough investigation into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos, will not be discussed due to the unsettled obligations of the Deputy Minister, Mr. Toska. The third, with number 100/14-10-2016, a topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the resurrected action of Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace, will not be debated due to miserable obligations of Mr. Amanatidis. The eighth question, number 91/13-10-2016, on the approval of the medium-term business plan for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki (OLTH), will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister as he will be in Mykonos in the framework of the celebration of St. Artemis. The thirteenth question, with number 11/3-10-2016, on the extension of the programme's work: "Aid for SMEs active in the manufacturing, tourism, trade and services sectors", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr. Haritsis, as he will be present at the KISYP. The sixth question under number 88/12-10-2016 of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Second Thessaloniki Mr.Akaterini Markos to the Minister of Health regarding the setting up of a paediatric hospital in Thessaloniki will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Polakis. The twelfth, with number 45/5-10-2016, a topical question for the second parliamentary party of Piraeus, Mr.Theodoras Megaloknos to the Minister of Health, on the serious shortages of staff and funding at the National Rehabilitation Centre, will not be discussed for the same reason. The sixth question under number 97/14-10-2016 of the Second Board of Members of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the completion of hydroelectric projects in the Mediterranean Trikala, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Energy, Mr. Skourletis, as he will be present at the Governing Council. The seventh question, number 105/17-10-2016, topical question of the second question of the Thessaloniki Parliamentary II of the Independent Greeks George Lazarides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the lack of maintenance of the Root Distribution Network (DEDEE) in southern Evia, will not be discussed for the same reason. The first question under number 102/17-10-2016 of the Greek Congress of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on measures to protect the health of residents and the environment, following two environmental incidents in Western Thessaloniki, will not be discussed for health reasons by the Minister of the Environment and Energy. First we will now discuss the seventh under number 104/17-10-2016 question of the first cycle of MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance on the repayment of the inheritance tax by transferring property to the State. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Alexiadis. You have the floor, Mr. Cammene, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. I see Mr. Balafa. I congratulate him on his election to the Central Commission. Minister, it is a matter that has been involved, and especially because of recent days' publications about inheritance decommissioning, too much of the Greek economy. There is an inequality in treatment and an injustice that we have all seen in our constituencies, but also throughout Greece. In recent years, tax burdens and debts seem to make legacy irresponsible. The evidence we have at the moment about inheritance decommissioning is that they have reached over forty-five thousand six hundred in 2015. It means that people after the death of their relatives went to the peace court and made a legacy release, that is, they didn't want to take the property. This brings a very big problem to the public - and to the courts, of course - which is what it will do at the end of the day? He'll get real estate and he won't know what to do with it. At the same time a property that does not work, cannot pay HNBS, cannot pay municipal fees, water, telephone, or any other direct and indirect income can have the public. At the same time, however, there is legislation and I will read it out about the Minutes, which reads: "In an act of the tax administration, all or part of an indemnity tax due by a debtor who is unable to pay it in cash, at the request of him, by transferring to the Greek State the full ownership of a substantial legacy or other property, which is within a city plan and is not charged with any property right, etc." This has so far not happened as a process, that is to say someone who owes it to the public and pays back. I'll say it in my denture. Questions, Mr Minister: How do you plan to deal with the phenomenon of the ever-increasing deportation of heritage? What is the amount of HICP's revenue that the state loses or will lose annually from this process? Is the level of loss of income, whether directly or indirectly, also calculated if the legacy is continued? Why is the signature of the Ministerial Decision, which allows the payment of part or all of the amount of inheritance due by transferring real estate to the State? Finally, are the details relating to the procedure for the transfer of real estate, the supporting documents required and the competent body to which the file should be sent to determine whether and whether the request will be accepted? It's a very important question. We must make it easier for citizens. And at the end of the day, the state must not be a real estate company. I'll come back to my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u4	Please, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, once again you are addressing an important issue concerning taxation. In fact, there has been a regulation since 2014, which allows citizens who cannot pay the inheritance tax - not any tax obligation, but only the tax resulting after a legacy - to pay him by transferring property to the public. The particular property or other property. This legislative framework exists, it concerns the citizens, as I have said, who cannot otherwise pay this tax obligation. Unfortunately, since 2014, it has not moved from the legislation, to the adoption of the decision laid down by the law. We could not do this until now, because we had specific budgetary commitments and situations. Now, that can be done. The relevant Ministerial Decision has already been prepared by the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue. We're at the stage of the final processing. In general, with this decision, we will be able in specific cases, where the citizen will not be able to pay the legacy tax in cash, to pay him by means of a real estate. In any case, it is for the public to do so, because if it did not accept an inheritance, the property would come to the public, since it would be renounced. But, in this way, we give citizens the opportunity to keep their property and regulate this problem by dividing property. There are issues, such as how to estimate the property, how to choose between the taxable person's property, what the procedure will be, etc. All this has been planned and will be announced in the next period, so that we can serve the citizens. I would like to say that on the same subject, I have given a written answer to a question from the Member of the Boeotian Law, Mr Bassiaku, has been interested in the Citizens' Counselor and I will submit to you in the Minutes all the relevant correspondence from the services, from which shows where we are at this time. What I want it to be clear is that in this area too, the government will do its utmost to relieve citizens and enable them to defend their rights. And as far as I'm concerned, what you're saying in your question, debt-free, that was before. In other words, due to debts, there was no acceptance of the legacy. Because if someone were to get a legacy worth 100,000, while the one who gave him the legacy had 120,000 debts, it didn't make any sense to get the legacy. So we had, and before this situation, we have it now. It is simply because, now, public debt and general government debt have increased, banks, insurance funds, because of the economic situation, that is what is happening. But we will deal with it this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. Mr. Kammenos has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u7	Minister, we remember the case of a well-known government-sponsored, imprisoned for debts to be paid for - to the DU anyway - and seized a great deal of property. There has always been philosophical and literacy about the difference. If you owe 17 million, it confiscates public real estate of objective value, based on ENPIA, - not with some strange evaluation, it's easy to assess, because you're going over to HNPH and to squares -35 million. What about the other 17? We have to resolve this. That is to say, there must be a way of lightening the citizen, and not giving him the change, because he does not have the state money, but we may be keeping the difference in the value of the confiscation, in relation to the debt to the public, for future tax debts in the next ten, twenty years and tell him every year we will take you so much money in relation to income tax, HISPIA, VAT, IKA or whatever has an obligation or a claim has been issued by the public to him. We cannot confiscate real estate - and seem to be a robbery government, let alone our own, and a social sensitivity more than any other - of greater value than the public debt. And in the end, no one benefits them, because the state does not take them out to auction to collect twice as much as it is. So if the state were to collect 35, it'd have to be sometime the other guy who'd get us to court for keeping 17 million more if I owe you 17? This issue must be resolved. I shall also present to the Minutes a case which has to do with what we're talking about. I have the parties' permission. It was the legacy tax 465,000, came out of the state decision in 2012 to pay 12 bi-monthly instalments equal to that. Every two months he had to give 38,763 euros a woman, who is seventy-three years old and has a pension. It turned to the public, I have all the documents, they gave them to me, and that is why I started my question and at the same time no solution was found. The file is still pending. Be careful, seventy - three years old retired, and we ask for 38,000 a two - month period for twelve months. I read it because it's a little funny, but that's what we have to make policy. It should be noted that since December 2013 they have been seized by DU Kifissia, with forced attachment on the hands of third parties, rents, rents of the property. So he doesn't even have the rent to pay even part of the 38,000. That's not normal. I'll submit it to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Please, Minister, look not only at this case, but also at similar cases, because it is unfair for the state to be completely unfair and not to benefit the state. Because at the end of the day we are making an enemy citizen and we have no benefit as a state, because we are not collecting anything. So we have to solve it. I would not like us to end up with the phenomenon of thirty thousand, forty thousand, fifty thousand of the legacy denominations in Greece's pacifist courts and become a "I do not inherit". We cannot nourish a movement "I do not inherit". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The real estate for the Greek is sacred, pays HIS, bleeds, but should not be the state...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u8	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u9	I know the sensitivity you have, Minister, and forgive me the tension, but by reading this paper from the parties, that is, a woman seventy-three years old who inherited a property and cannot pay 38,000 or find a tip, we find that it is unfair and a solution must be found. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u11	Mr Kammene, I have to say clearly that we do not defend and do not believe that the tax system we have, the tax procedures or the tax arrangements is something that we need to maintain. We want to change everything and we want to keep everything positive, reduce taxation, fairly allocate tax burdens, and we want in any case any injustices, excesses, contradictions, and we have one - one to deal with and overcome them. Just one observation. Because we hear often in this Chamber or in other rooms of this building, a criticism of the government on overtaxation issues, I would remind you that property taxation is a typical case. We as a government did not increase taxation on real estate. But I would remind you that the previous governments have received the total property burden, which was about 500-600 million and reached 3.4 billion. Let's not forget that here. And because some people will say, that Alexiadis once again says the same thing, I say the same thing again, because some do not remember what they did, when they were government, and are trying to point us out only, what we now are government. We believe that property has been excessively burdened and we have reached the point of a basic need for the citizen - the first residence and housing of his family - to become a field of overtaxation and unfair taxation. A point is that. Secondly, we have this absurd fact in Greece. The Greek State has huge real estate, it has many buildings, but at the same time, in order to serve local and general interests of interoperable and other situations, it wastes huge sums of rented buildings. Today, in my speech in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I shall refer more specifically to this issue. But it is not possible, just as the Ministry of Finance, while there are so many properties, to lose every year at around 25 million euros - only the Ministry of Finance - to rent buildings. Therefore, and with this process, we will make use of whatever potential there is, to save spending. In relation to what you said, we have anticipated this in the drafting of the regulation, that is to say if someone owes EUR 30 000 to the public and if the property, which the public will finally agree to give to the public about its tax obligation, it makes EUR 50 000, this EUR 20 000, not to lose it, but to have a special procedure where the citizen is protected and, of course, not to lose the public. All of this has been predicted. You'll be a little more patient. This provision will come out and we will deal with this issue as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. We move to the fifth, with number 107-17-10-2016, a timely question for the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the problem of dysosmia in the Municipality of Cordelios - Evrosmos of the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Balafas. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, our question concerns Western Thessaloniki, namely the Municipality of Cordeliou - Evosmos, the second municipality of the Thessaloniki town complex with more than a hundred thousand inhabitants. On a daily basis over the last few hours and usually in the evening hours there is strong dysosmia in the area of Cordeli and Evros, with this characteristic LPG odor, while at the same time people feel a strange turbulence in their necks. We must say here that the problem of austerity in this densely populated area is not now, it is chronic - several years - with periodic outbreaks, such as now, which has a negative impact, as you can see, on the quality of life of people as well as on their health. The air pollution station in Cordelio which operates under the responsibility of the Region of Central Macedonia has long been unable to identify the causes of this misosmia, perhaps because it lacks the necessary technological potential. They are likely, therefore, to be the cause of either urban waste treatment plants or industrial plants, which are many in this area, with more than the ELPE installations, or the leakage of LPG or natural gas, which does not exclude the possibility of a large-scale accident either with a fire or with an explosion. They're likely to. Nothing can be ruled out, but the cause hasn't been detected yet. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is therefore, Minister, not only a problem of quality of life - and I am ending, Mr President - for the inhabitants of the region, but also a problem of public health and even a problem of public safety as a result of an accident. Since you have a responsibility as a government, we ask you to what direct - but direct - actions you will take to investigate, identify and, of course, address the problem, to solve it, of course, so as to protect the population of the region and to restore any health problems caused by this phenomenon - the restoration of health problems, of course, on the sole responsibility of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Delis, with his detailed position, with a detailed topical question, raises an issue that exists in the Municipality of Cordelios Evros of the Thessaloniki Regional Unit, the chronic problem - not yesterday - of the dysosmia in the area in particular of Cordelios. And I'm really impressed. This is the first time that I have received this problem. There has been a question to the Minister for the Environment on 17 September by SYRIZA MEP Mr Triantafylides on the same subject. We, as Ministry of the Interior, have been the first to receive this problem and I wanted to say that it is important to see what we are doing. In other words, this timely question should be an opportunity, at last, to address the issue - not to drag this issue - firstly, Mr Delis, and I think you agree with us, to identify the causes of disossalism. It's not metaphysical, it's from somewhere where the dysosmia comes from. It is not magic, that is, the problem and where it comes from. So let's see what's going on, what's going on and what's waiting for the next period. First of all, let's say what's happened. First of all, the gas pollutants have been measured. They're below normal limits, but anyway the gas pollutants in such a case would not be responsible for the problem of dysosmia. Secondly, checks were carried out - and you know this very well - by the relevant departments of the Region and the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, which is responsible for this issue, and checks were carried out thoroughly around the premises of the Greek oil plants, but without any conclusion being made that the odors were from the premises of ELPE, which are, as you know, in the area of the fifth district of the municipality of Cordelio. Thirdly, the section - again in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki - granting of development, energy and natural resources licences has checked the permits of the industrial units in the region, whether these are the "ELPEDISON" or "ELPEDISON" and in addition to the correspondence we have made with the municipality, has confirmed that it does not know any other industrial unit legally or illegally that can be linked to the austerity. That's what's happened. Now, let's say what's going on. Firstly, the environmental quality control step of the metropolitan section of Thessaloniki has been set up to carry out environmental inspections in the area. The possibility of upgrading the air pollutant measurement station located in Cordelio is also considered. Finally, and more importantly of all, because the services - and I would like us to pay attention to this, Mr Delis, to try all of us to address this issue - of the environmental and spatial planning management of the region so far have no instruments for detecting these particular odors, the region has already addressed the chemistry department of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki in order to carry out a study which can lead to a safe and serious source of pollution. The study - I am informed yesterday, Mr Delis, which I am thinking of - will be ready by the end of the year. It will be identified and located the appropriate machine. Its value isn't huge, it's 100 to 150 thousand euros. It has been planned by the region to supply it from the regional resources, which is the legal process. I would say, in fact, even more than enough, that such a similar procedure had taken place in 2013 and had been rejected by the relevant authorities at the time. I'll stop here. Then, in my dentistry, I shall conclude the rest of the answers, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. In your reply, Mr Minister, I do not think you are specifically answering the question we have asked you, since first of all, you say that the first time a question of this kind has arrived at your Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u18	To me. I talked about myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u19	I think it is an extremely serious matter for the government to say here that he did not know it or that he did not know it. It is an issue that concerns the inhabitants of the region. You said there were no results checks. In order for the checks to result, however, they must be carried out with appropriate tools and equipment. If you don't have these, of course it won't work. As regards what you said in relation to the region, it may also constitute a peculiar transfer of responsibilities. I'll talk about the region later. However, in relation to this matter, even the first-year students of the Chemical, Mr. Minister, know that dysosmia is a characteristic feature of sulphur compounds primarily, hydrogen sulphide, mercaptan, etc. So what is needed is the measurement of these sulphur compounds, which will, of course, also lead us to identify the cause of dysosmia. Is there the proper laboratory for this measurement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u20	You didn't follow me what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u21	There's and it's public and accredited. You said it yourself. What's missing, Minister? The appropriate technology is missing from the air pollution measurement station in Cordelio. What is this equipment for? Because we have searched and dealt with the subject, there is a need for a special filter for the concentration of these sulphur compounds, the cost of which is around EUR 50 000. Based on this filter, the appropriate laboratory can determine the amount of these sulphur compounds that cause dysosmia, but also the source and cause of the problem. Here, say that the Region of Central Macedonia recently awarded the project "Definition of Mercaptans" of the 2016 budget. It has endured this line, a line that was from the region's own resources. So it takes 50,000 euros, Minister. Are you going to give it to us again or are you going to tell us about the state's narrow finances, which when it's for the people's needs, you're getting swingy, while when it comes to the needs of the capitalists, you're being open-handed? We'll see. Of course, let us not forget that, on the altar of the competitiveness of businesses, your government is also sacrificing every day the necessary preventive measures to be taken by these undertakings, thereby increasing the occupational risks for workers - the fatal accidents and the outbreak of occupational diseases bear witness to it - by increasing even the risks to public health and safety. And on the altar of business profitability, you also adapt the environmental legislation and licensing of these enterprises by fast track procedures and, of course, you undermine the state's control mechanisms with the known shortages in staff and media. And of course, rarely - not to say - you focus on employers' responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. Please, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Because, Mr Delis, we want parliamentary control to be a specific procedure and to make results, not to make speeches, it is good to hear what the other person says. And listen to what you and I say. You mentioned a sentence: 'You are once again transferring responsibility'. Who are we transferring responsibility to? In the region, which is constitutionally designated to have these responsibilities? Do you want us to take these powers from the region and take them to the central state? We have an open line with the region, and in particular we have triggered it these days with the Vice-President responsible, Mrs Patulidou, who has dealt in particular with this issue. And of course we are not talking about taking responsibility, in the name of transferring responsibilities, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u24	That's not what we told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u25	It is a good thing, then, that there should be a dialogue on the ears of listeners and not on the ears of unhearing people to solve the problem. I will inform you by the end of the year what this workshop has done, what conclusion it has reached, what machine it has put in particular that it needs and that amount is already guaranteed by the region to give it a solution. Because it is a chronic problem that has been facing so many years and we need to look in all directions. I am not an expert, but I read what information is available, what is also available in the area. Let's search everywhere for that problem, not one side here or there, or preconceived who may have created the problem. Let's see that. We will monitor this very closely, and I invite you together to work together on this issue, in order to address all the possibilities. I believe that immediately after the end of the year and the finalisation of the Aristotle University's findings, we will have the possibility of providing the machine and being able to complete and provide an answer to this issue. Now, in your question you raise the question of qualified personnel. I would therefore like to inform you that the region does not raise a point of order. There are six qualified contract engineers working there, until there is permanent staff, if there is. And I welcome that you're talking about possible health issues, you don't see that there are. I wish there were no health problems at all. Potential health problems, as you say, are dealt with by a National Health System without any expense on the part of people who have to resort to the services of the National Health System. Finally, with regard to licences and controls, I have to say that any stricterization, Mr Delis, of licensing procedures, if there is no systematic monitoring of compliance with the conditions, is a gift free of charge. The institutional framework exists, after all. It remains to be implemented and, above all, strengthened - that is what we are doing - the administrative control mechanisms, both populations and fundamentally. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentary Ms Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou is requesting permission from a few days' absence for family reasons from 27 October to 30 October 2016 to go abroad, to Israel. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u27	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We move to the fourth with number 86/11-10-2016, a timely question for the first cycle of the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problem of the movements of the appreciators of ELGA, leading to the economic damage of the farmers affected. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the farmers of Elijah were on the streets the other day, as what you promised them on the 16th of last month, at meetings held in Bartholomew and Lehana, that the estimates would be progressing quickly to move the compensation procedures to zero. You remember very well, Minister, that on your visit to Elias you saw desperate people hanging from your lips, hoping that they would get a certain commitment that would lead to timely compensation, not only to suffer financial damage, but to continue to grow. And you know, firsthand, since you have visited land that has been destroyed, that damage is large and in extensive crops, in maize, in peppers, in other fruit and vegetables, in the raisins taken from the almonds, but they are particularly catastrophic in the greenhouse facilities, which more than two thousand acres have now been found out of production. And they are waiting for those people who fall under the ELGA regulation to initiate procedures for liquidity, because no one is going to lend them to cultivate them, and those who have told them that they will join the PSEA, with rapid procedures to start the process of rehabilitating their greenhouse facilities. But that is not what they can do if there are no estimates. We, Minister, have asked you a question since the summer on the problems of ELGA. The Members of the Democratic Independence, Mr Jelléle, and myself and others, have tabled an amendment to you seven times to solve the problem of ELGA road transport and you have not done so. We hope today that you will give us an answer and we have given you a golden opportunity. In the bill that is being discussed, we have tabled an amendment of an intergroup nature to solve the problem of ELGA's road travel and start assessments. We are therefore very anxiously awaiting your reply. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. The Minister will answer Mr. Apostle. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u30	Mr Colleague, you and we were in the region in time. The damage is, in fact, too great, especially damage to the greenhouse facilities. We really understood their anxiety and are now in a situation of individualisation of these applications and assessments. I mean, the job hasn't stopped. But I will go directly to respond to what concerns the valuers, the movements and the kilometre compensation of the valuers. First, you know that in July 2016, with an amendment, we raised the nights of the appreciators from a hundred and fifty who were in the geopolitics in two hundred, as well as the veterinarians from a hundred and eighty in two hundred. That is, basically all their days of work can be in the appreciation work they serve. From there on, therefore, because, at the same time, we had insisted on the tenth and the kilometre compensation to the assessors, because this quarter was more widely removed in the public sector and you know that with Law No4336/2015 - that is, the third memorandum that you voted for, we voted for it too - this cut was imposed. Mr. Colleague, let's talk about things with their name. That's my approach. We're telling you. And you're pressing, and we're pressing on our side. However, from the moment on, which is a matter of general government which concerns the reference point in this legislation, the relevant Ministry of Finance decides that it is more about the public sector and that this provision cannot be re-established. We will continue to insist and you will table amendments. We don't disagree. However, this does not mean that the work of the assessors is not in progress. After the amendment of July, the assessors returned and there was indeed an important job. At this moment we are in the assessment of damage. From that point on, if they insist and claim, it is their trade union right. We, for our part, guarantee that the compensation corresponding to the corresponding damages will, of course, be granted in respect of the ELGA through procedures which you know there is a year. Because all these elements must be cross-checked through OPEKEPE, with procedures that absolutely need to be personalised. As far as the MAGPs and all of this - we are not allowed time - in my denunciation I shall tell you. However, in Elias, and of course, in all the regions affected, if you ask the farms which have suffered damage due to the loss of feed, grazing material, already nine units that have been declared damaged in their accounts at this time, a sum which will cover for a hundred days the feed costs of their plants. This is a first move and there are others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr. Koutsoukos, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-six students and students and two teachers attending the 7th Municipal School of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u32	I am sorry, Minister, that you are disappointing not me, but the farmers who are listening to us. And I'm much more sorry you haven't learned to speak in terms of truth yet. Minister, estimates can't be made. Estimates have stopped. The ELGA workers by decision of their association have abstained from the valued work, because the President of the ELGA and you promised them that by the end of September you would resolve the issue of road transport and you did not solve it. And you're not telling the truth, as with L.4336/2015 the traffic routes of other categories of workers, valuers of European programs paid from own resources have been excluded. And you know very well that the ELGA has the end of appreciation. So he has his own resources. So it's not the budget. And because in Greece there was a troika, and before you take over, there were estimates and roads paid. You have made Greece binding on the officials of the Troika who do not allow you to pass a simple amendment, which - I repeat - sign MPs from all the parties in opposition. Really, the SYRIZA MPs of the damaged areas tell you nothing? They don't communicate with people? Are they not feeling the problems of farmers? So I'm telling you that if you wanted to, since you're making a "superior" negotiation, as you say every three minutes, you would have solved this issue because it depends on primary production. It is not only about the farmers of Elias. I see them, and I feel their anxiety and their pressure because they're being destroyed, because they're going out of production. Nobody's borrowing them to make greenhouses to grow. They're waiting for you. It is a universal problem, and instead of telling us that compensation will be given in time and that they will not be concerned, we must look at this in practice. And if they don't see the ELGA valuers in the fields, they won't be quiet. I repeat - to hear it well - that they went out the streets the other day and will continue. And I'm afraid what the forms of their reaction will be. Because, Minister, you remember, when you came to the Bartholomew and Lehano meetings, the farmers, despite their suffering, have dealt with you with a great deal of respect, because they have been waiting for you to give them solutions. I would therefore inform you that the indignation is extinguished at the moment. And while you have had the opportunity today to give a solution, you do not give it invoke the troika and the general environment. I think that this is disgraceful with regard to the Ministry's policy, which for the first time you have included in the restrictions of the memorandum. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u34	Colleague, if we made the commitment of the Troika to Greece, I will answer you with a proverb that we say in our villages: in the house of the hanged man they don't talk about rope.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u35	He was out of troika, ELGA! For the first time you put ELGA in the troika!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u36	It was huge of your responsibilities, because you led the country to be binding. And you all know that in this process, right now, this is a one-way behaviour from our side. I am not one of those who will start shouting and beating, but I am telling you one thing: we are bound to where we are, we are committed here, and we are also committed that all the assessments will be made properly. For all the damage there are points of reference that can be approached with absolute certainty and correctness. So there is no question. And I tell you, because you have already ignored it, that we have already sent money to the farmers who had a direct problem in order to meet the needs of feedingstuffs. At this point, the estimates we had are individualized because the assessors were stopped the day before yesterday. The specific procedures for damages to the ELGA had been carried out throughout the previous period. At this time, we are driving in a short time, because as you know, procedures need some time to complete, to pay the losses relating to production, livestock. Of course, for the rest of the part, especially for Elias, because we have large-scalely damaged greenhouse plants, we have the "Programme 5.2", which we have said how we will be able to incorporate them there. Because the MAGPs have a specific threshold that we can't go beyond. So you realise that we are considering all possibilities and that the people of Elijah and those who have been hurt are certain, because it was a very difficult year, Mr Kutsuko. And from the treatment I have had from the people of Elias, a treatment that exists throughout Greece, it seems that the rural world understands that problems have arisen from these weather conditions experienced by our country. We do everything we can and we will continue to do it to cover them with a piece of that damage that has been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. We move on to the second debate under No 95/14-10-2016 topical question of the second question of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the delay in the implementation of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is truly unprecedented that your government's delay in making use of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, resulting in guaranteed EU funds of EUR 4.7 billion, totalling EUR 6 billion with national participation, remain unacceptable. Almost two years later, since the end of 2014, which has been closed by the Common Agricultural Policy and after this new programming period, due to your management deficit, it has been lacking valuable funds from the rural economy, especially in this difficult period of deep crisis and new recession, while of course you have loaded the country's farm-food world with tax and insurance gross burdens. The consequence of this tragic government unrest, Mr Minister, of doing what is self-evident, which is to get the relevant notices to run the ready-made Community funds, is to keep the most inactive rural economy's development tool, the most popular 'agricultural ESDP', which could lead to agricultural production and, of course, dynamic and orbital throughout the national economy. For it concerns improvement projects, investment projects in private farms, processing measures which give added value to the agricultural sector and rural tourism programmes, LEADER. So they are pouring into the swamp of your insolence and inadequacy. And it had to be tabled, Minister, this timely question on 13 October 2016 and that the European Parliament, Mr Kokloyannis, should speak to the Commissioner responsible for the European Commission, Mr Hogan, and the European Commissioner should also be invoked on 6 October to our country, who recommended that you, Mr Minister, proceed without delay to the implementation in order to bring about the absorption, in order to bring forth spasm and bread on 14 October 2016 - and that, of course, with an incomplete institutional framework, because the relevant and necessary joint ministerial decision is lacking - the programme of young farmers, which you had published in April 2016, which you have of course frozen and which you deserve to note - oh of the miracle! - that he got out at the Transmission just the day before yesterday, October 18th. So because, Minister, for the first time, our country is in the process of absorbing European funds at European Union level, I would like you to reply directly when, at last, you will draw up the other rural development programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor, Mr Apostolos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u40	Madam Colleague, it is not two years that the Rural Development Programme has been adopted because it was adopted in December 2015. This was because the programme that you submitted a year ago, unfortunately for our country, was returned to us with labels, comments and corrections which were, in fact, unacceptable. Therefore, we through needs-driven procedures and on the basis of the programme we have, approached the issue and the programme was adopted in December 2015. So don't talk for two years, talk about a year, like we started. Following its adoption, we have proceeded with the necessary procedures, so that we can, on the one hand, integrate the commitments made in the new period and, on the other, form such an institutional framework, so that we can have its immediate implementation. A great deal has been done in this respect. I'm not allowed time to stand in detail. I'll just tell you that. We have a coordination with the regions on the competences and assignments of specific measures and actions. The relevant process has now been completed, giving 38% of the resources of the Rural Development Programme to the region, doing what we have in our programme: decentralisation and self-government. We have therefore entered this process. Of course, the letter in question has already been sent to the regions, the ministerial decisions have been made. At the same time, because you're talking about absorption, I'll tell you just one thing. The payments to date of the Agricultural Development Programme 2014, in this half year, have risen to an absorption rate of 8.84%. We are talking about 228 million euros of Community participation. Public spending is 252,000,000 euros. At the same time, there have been notices of the aid measure for producers in mountain and disadvantaged areas, which concerns compensatory compensation. 160,000 euros will be absorbed in the year. Also, a part of the obscured obligations will be absorbed. We estimate that by the end of the year we will exceed 15% in terms of absorption. There is already the Rural Development Programme under way. The FEK has been issued and the Ministerial Decision is on its way. From October 31st to November 31st, Greek young farmers are invited to submit their requests. You know that they expect at least 12 000 young farmers to join this programme. We are already in the final phase of the LEADER programme. There, in consultation with local government and bodies, we are towards the end of the completion of the programmes and the requests that will be accepted. I don't have time to say any more. In my dentistry, I will tell you that by the end of December four or five other measures relating to processing, biological and so on are being launched. If you look at what happened between 2007 and 2012, you will see that there are specific measures that will be implemented after three to four years. And you come and give up for us that we have received - I repeat - a programme that has been returned by the European Union as unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u41	Mrs. Arabatzis, you've been seconded for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u42	Minister, there must be no inaccuracies here. You have received a programme and received points of order, questions and remarks from the Commission, as all the countries of the European Union who submit their programmes are receiving. So what the other countries have received, you too have received. And I want you to tell me, because you are causing us what you are saying on the substance, comments and changes you have made on our own programme. I fear that you did not make any substantial remarks and simply let time run. And it is no accident, Minister, that we were the last country in the European Union, according to the European Commission Press Release, on December 11, 2015, adopted the Rural Development Programme. And that is your responsibility and signature, Mr Minister, because I will tell you that even Cyprus, which has left the memorandum and, of course, did not have to load the third and heaviest Memorandum of your own government and which had the problems involved and which was delayed in the adoption of the Rural Development Programme, I would like to inform you, Mr Minister, that it has already shut down - not announced - and the programmes for young farmers, which were just the day of October 14th, on 18th and 18th. Therefore, Minister, Cyprus has closed down both on young farmers and on improvement plans. Minister, you referred to absorption. The figures in the implementation table of the European Commission are unfortunately depressing for our country. The figures reveal that Greece is last, just after Malta in absorption, at a rate of 5.01% of resources, far below the European average, which is 12.42%. And it is regrettable, Minister, that new countries in the European Union, such as Slovenia and Slovakia, are at 16.60% and 12.82% respectively, while Romania and Bulgaria are two points ahead. I do not know, of course, if this had been the case in mind, that Bulgaria is in front, the OAU Commander, when he called on the undertakings to go to migrate to Bulgaria, but this fate, Minister, which you are ensuring for our country, is the voyage, parities and the latter, we cannot tolerate it. It is worth noting - because you mentioned that payments have been made - that all payments made are made in respect of outstanding liabilities of the previous ESDP. And because you have provoked us for the period 2007-2013, to prove from this Step, that thankfully for us and unfortunately we are not all the same, I must tell you that at the corresponding year of the respective programming period 2007-2013, in September 2009, Minister, Greece - and here I have the documents and I will present them in the Minutes - it was absorbing European resources for agriculture of 21% of the total programme, next to the European average that was 22%. So you compare: 5% today, 21% on the 'bad' of the New Democracy, Minister. And because, Minister, because of the economic crisis you know that the programme is forward, which means that we can get the money ahead of us because of the economic crisis, I want you to commit yourself here from this step forward on how to prevent the visible risk of the loss of European funds, which you have not been able to absorb, because I imagine you are aware that in this programme period pan-Europeanly there are new restrictions on the allocation of funds, namely payments. N+2 shall not apply at the end of the programming period. It shall apply ‘n+2’ in each year that passes, which shall mean that 2014 money must be absorbed by 2017, money from 2015 until 2018. Otherwise they're gone. If these intermediate objectives are not achieved, then, how, Minister, and I want you to commit yourself, will you prevent the risk of losing these valuables of 4.7 billion when you of course managed to bring the development law over how much money? For 580 million until 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Arabatzis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, forty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 7th Acharnon High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Colleague, I like the numbers, and we need to answer numbers, to haunt what we're talking about. So I come to the programming period that you actually worked for the period 2007-2013. On 29-11-2007 the programme of the previous period, that is, the same year as the formal start of this programme period, unlike us, which the 2014-2020 programme was adopted two years later. A year you've been late to send it. Along with the treatments, labels and all this has been delayed at least a year and a half. And the delay is due to you. One of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u45	The project was sent to the end of August 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u46	Secondly, this was finally adopted at the end of 2015. We, because of the lack of maturity in the first submission, realize how much time we have wasted. However, in a short period of time we have made progress. Already at this time, I repeat, we have five meters of 1.5 billion. A place has been declared. We're committed. And indeed, by the end of 2016, they will be proclaimed. So, from the 4.7 we have 1.5 billion. Here we go. We have ahead of us for the next few years. We're declaring the whole amount. And we are doing so for the simple reason that we have the possibility from now on to transfer resources from one metre to another. So we will see how, starting with this programme, we implement what we have as a basis in our programme and with what flexibility in managing these funds. And we got this flexibility the other day, when Commissioner Hogan was here, and we had a substantial debate. And indeed, he himself told us to proceed with the rural development programme, because it is, in fact, the only programme that the rural area can make use of. And we're doing this job. What I want to say to you is not to forget that in 2015, when we closed the previous programme, we had an absorption of over 750 to 850 million. It was 300 million more than what you had estimated in the budget. So, methodically, with respect for resources and, above all, through measures and actions related to our programming approach, we will make use of the resources. And let the rural area be certain that we will fight and that the effectiveness of resources will not be long enough to show up and serve the rural area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too. We move to the fourth with number 90/13-10-2016 topical question of the second question of the Parliamentary Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jelegis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food on the valid payment of compensation to farmers in Serres County for their livestock affected by LSD. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Serres Law in April 2016 was also affected by the zoonosis, follicular dermatitis. In fact, on April 12, 2016, we had the first killing of the entire livestock in a livestock unit. By the beginning of June more than three and a half thousand animals were killed in Serres Law. The zoonoses were found in forty-four outbreaks and the livestock of about eighty breeders was killed. I asked a timely question at the end of June 2016, asking for the following: The timetable, when the producers will be paid, what the process is. I also asked for a joint ministerial decision, at the initiative of your Ministry, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance, to suspend insurance contributions, for the incompatibility of the account of these farmers, since one day on the other they were found with zero income. The Deputy Minister came here and said that this procedure will be done as soon as possible, and indeed there will be care to ensure that it is not just a compensation per animal unit, but also to see what has been achieved, that is to say, on a daily basis, the ones that each livestock unit gave as income to the farmer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It has been six months, and while the ministerial decision you made in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, 1677/9-6 2016 provides immediate and appropriate compensation within sixty days of the decision to take health measures, we already have six months and the producers, the farmers are in a desperate situation. They don't know when they're gonna get paid yet, it's zero-income. There's a survival problem! And while there was the possibility once again of this joint ministerial decision - which you signed, which you agreed with the Ministry of Finance - that 80% of the livestock has been killed immediately, so that producers can slowly replace their funds, unfortunately nothing has happened. And at the moment the absolute despair prevails in these livestock families of Serres Prefecture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and how four students and students and three teachers from the Dutch High School of Mencia Di Mendoza. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Evangelos Apostolos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that in June 2016, beneficiaries of the Serres 405,000 euro area were given old loose ends for lumpy skin disease. Indeed, the requests you mentioned are requests in the evaluation process. They have actually been submitted to us on 6 September, and after the whole process of documentation has been done, we have a request for the Serres Prefecture of EUR 237 million. Given that farmers from other regions will also be included in the distribution - we have a sum of EUR 5.51 million, which we will give for lumpy skin disease - we need to see what happens in all regions and collect them. We believe that the EUR 5.51 million meets all the needs. And as long as it's documented for all of Greece, we'll move on. Of course, our services are in agreement with the Ministry of Finance on the payments that will be made immediately - I cannot tell you in five or ten days - but this procedure is already coming to an end. There will be the corresponding payment and, of course, they will be credited to the accounts of these farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, what we need to see is how we deal with this great problem of lumpy skin disease, which has particularly hit us and neighbouring Bulgaria, through a consultation, and widely with the country of origin, Turkey. Last month a meeting was held in Sofia with the presence of Commissioner for Health, Mr Androkatis, where we had a substantial debate. The problem was recognised by the participating representatives of the countries, i.e. the European Union's Agriculture Ministers. In my dentistry, I will tell you what commitments were made so that we can go further, that is, we can tackle the problem more methodically.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think you are fully aware of the importance of this issue for farmers who have lost their livestock, with a cause for lumpy skin disease, as they are not able to survive at this time. I'm really surprised, because in June the Deputy Minister told you that we were on our way to payment. I've got the minutes here. In fact, he said that you would give, not only what the Ministerial Decision on compensation per livestock, according to the market price, but also extra money, demanding that the European Union change the income regulation for farmers. But today I am surprised to hear from you that you will expect the documentation for all of Greece. Good! Wait for the documentation for all of Greece. First of all, the relevant rural economy directorates - the DAGs - each county and every region, according to the circular, that is, your joint ministerial decision, must carry out this procedure within 30 days. You cannot today tell what the level of compensation for these farmers is from April to September 9! We are not talking about producers who have other incomes. You know very well that the owner of a livestock unit cannot have any other occupations. However, even though it has some other crops, these products are used for feed, for their livestock. I mean, right now, these families are with zero income. I will invoke your sensitivity to farmers, as you have repeatedly said here in Parliament. Give 80% of this deposit, if possible since yesterday, though it is already too late! Why will these livestock farmers now find the feed they need to prepare themselves to replace their livestock? Do you understand? There is a survival problem for these farmers. You have done nothing at all, like suspending their insurance contributions, making their accounts inconsistent. Single European aid, whether for beef or for assemblers, is in place, and the banks confiscate them. Is it possible to leave these farmers to their fate, leave them to the absolute indifference when we heard other than the Deputy Minister here two months ago? And today I am amazed to see that we are waiting for compensation to be established throughout Greece. In fact, you should see this directly and very sensitively.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u54	Mr Colleague, I told you that we had this amount at our disposal. It's 5.51 million euros. Of this EUR 2.37 million is for the Serres' cattle farmers. It is a matter that is settled within days. We couldn't do anything different. It makes sense for you to be interested in the Serres' cattlemen. However, we have the overall picture of the cattle farmers throughout Greece and we have in particular the picture of lumpy skin disease. Because what I'm going to say to you, I think they're more interested in the farmers, not that they don't need that money. The fact that the European Bank will deal with all the needs in vaccines, in all cases where we have units, is very important because we also had a major problem. We shall, in other words, proceed with preventive vaccination for all and, of course, with the help of the European Union. Legislation will also be amended to regulate matters relating to the consumption and marketing of meat and milk from affected areas. For example, on issues relating to the total killing of animals where we had farms, since there was a vaccination coverage in this particular case, they will be treated differently. They won't lead to killing. It is a matter of days before the European Union adopts a directive on this. So, basically, issues that led them to disappear are beginning to be approached, of course, with a difficult budgetary situation ahead of us and a difficult one. We are exploiting all possible resources from the European Commission, of course, taking into account the budgetary circumstances that exist in our country. For us, the agricultural sector, in particular livestock farming and we have proved it - take note, for example, that we tabled our proposal on related aid, doubled, tripled, tripled the amounts for livestock farming, livestock farming, beef and veal - is the sector that we need to support, can offer much to what we are discussing for productive reconstruction. See the great achievement today. I'm telling you, Mr. Comrade. Export record to food for Greece in 2016. So the fact that we are trying to have a quality agriculture, which is of quality, with geographical indications, brings its result and we are fighting for it. So I understand your concern. You too understand the great battles we are fighting for the space.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u55	For this one? Because until then the farmers will die.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u56	We move to the eighth under number 106/17-10-2016, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Union of Centres Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the need to redesign the routes of "TRAINOSE" to cover the Peloponnese. The question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Chrysovelloni. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. I also thank the Minister for her presence. In 2010, when Greece was found to abandon at the time of deficits and lending, the first to be punished by the rail network deficits were the inhabitants of the Peloponnese. The only network whose operation was suspended was in the Peloponnese. Since then, it's been suspended. At the same time, residents cannot be served, in particular for delays in concession projects. The delays in the Corinth - Patras, Patras - Tower, we are also discussing these regularly in the House, and all we see is an acceleration agreement, supposedly, of integration. Regardless of this, however, the country's railway landscape is now changing because the 'TRAINOSE', which has transport and passenger work, is already privatised. Accordingly, the Greek State, while continuing its tactics of the previous years, has been strengthening the railway project, for deficits, supposedly, on some lines since 2011. At the same time, he is not interested in using the Peloponnese line again to serve the inhabitants. So the national concession routes remain non-competitive. There are people living on the west side of the Peloponnese who are unable to use - and I am referring in particular to older people and young people - the cost of motorways. And we are already in the sixth year of suspension of operation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will finish right away, and I will tell you in my dentistry, Mr President. The Act provides, on the one hand, for the strengthening of the service, on the other hand, the right of the Minister for Infrastructure - in accordance with a public service concession signed - each October to redesign, in cooperation with TRAINOSE or by taking the initiative, the operating routes. We therefore call on the Minister for the Right to Article 14 of the public service contract and to revise the routes and to integrate - and, in view of the privatisation of TRAINOSE, which will continue to receive EUR 50 million for the implementation of routes - and of routes in the Peloponnese to serve the inhabitants. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mrs Chryssovelloni has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you for your question, Mr President, because this is where we have the opportunity to say some very important things about the Peloponnese that you are interested in. Before, however, I reply to the specific questions you raise in your question, I would like to refer to the data on the Greek railway when we took up our duties as government, many of which still exist now, because - as you well understand - this cannot be reversed from one moment to the next. So between the country's Memorandum of Understanding was the restructuring of the railway sector. With L.3891/2010 - which started to restructure the railway landscape, but it actually came to incorporate the Memorandum - it was decided to restructure the rail system by regulating the issue of accumulated debts and revising the injurious activities. Unfortunately, all this is the undeniable results of a bad policy followed by the previous government and the transport section. So since the implementation of this law, there has been a victim of the railroad, as you mentioned in your prototype. Many railway lines have remained completely inactive. There was no upgrading of the rail network. There was a lack of rolling stock while depreciating the existing and drastic impairment of its value. In this, unfortunately, the environment that has been created has been affected, Mr Papoutsis, in all respects, and the network of railways in the Peloponnese. This is an example - I would like to mention - of the Corinth - Nafplion line, which had been spent in the past on the sum of EUR 80 million, which operated less than a year and was ultimately devalued. In these circumstances, Mr Papoutsis, you can understand that we have not had too much room for manoeuvre. Nevertheless, because you refer to your question in the public service contract between the Greek State and the TRAINOSE, I would remind you first of all - because everything is important - that this contract was signed in 2015 on our own government, but this text was agreed by the previous government and there were no substantial possibilities and margins for change. However, ladies and gentlemen, we are not investing in the activation of Article 14(6) of this convention, which - as you will know - provides for the unilateral fixing of routes even if they are loss-making because this cannot be applied on the grounds that the railway line is a burden but also for safety reasons, as is the case in the Peloponnese. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] A little time, Mr. President. We are, however, investing in a fundamental change in the services provided to the passenger and, of course, in the promotion of freight transport. You will be aware that a few months ago L.4408/2016 was voted on the creation of the single European railway area which marks precisely this change which the government is seeking to achieve, given that specific lines - including the Peloponnese disputed - have been excluded from the trans-European network. What does that mean? It means that the infrastructure manager is now given the opportunity to participate in specific regional initiatives which I will also develop in the second part of my position and I think that I will give you an adequate answer to both questions. It was simply necessary to see what this government has received and what it plans to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. First line condition. The status of a line, as established in a response from the OSE Marketing Directorate, dated 22-1-2016, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes - is on parliamentary control, Minister, and you will be aware - says that the line situation, even if it is moderate, i.e. an old-style railway line is appropriate and is an active network. I quote: 'The metric line of Corinth - Mills - Kalamata was renovated' - it speaks of this line - 'and is in temporary operation, but the network of the Peloponnese has been classified as active'. It is a response to parliamentary scrutiny on 22-1-2016. Secondly, I am concerned that regardless of the question of the European railway area, which you referred to, Minister, I would like to remind you that the southern Peloponnese is the southern part of the European area and is not served by the railroad. At least finish infrastructure projects, concessions. Thirdly, I would like to raise: the term public service contract - you too - gives the Minister the power to act. So what did I ask for with my question? Redesign the routes. Today TRAINOSE is in a process of privatisation and can be imposed on it. Why am I saying that? Because the network is good, but you brought in the first day and another provision was passed for which you did not bring us the contract free of charge, and we have legally voted for the right of Italian 'TRAINOSE' to net off the maintenance work it does in rolling stock, Minister, with the rents that it will pay to GAIAOSE. In other words, the incentives exist and do not raise the issue of 700 million for which you suggested refunds to the European Union, because since TRAINOSE is privatised, it is the European Union's decision to delete them. Therefore, by the privatisation of TRAINOSE, the Ministry's competence to impose traffic on the new operator and on the Peloponnese is fully in operation. To sum up, it turns out that the status of the line is good, it turns out that it is possible if the rolling stock used has a need for maintenance, "TRAINOSE" and the new owner, at the cost of the Greek state, at the cost of the Greek state after being offset against the rents, to maintain it and to be operational. Therefore, those you referred to in 2010 may have been the case in 2016, but the data have changed. I mean, the Peloponnese is a living piece of Greek space. Do not continue to be condemned to difficulties in moving, and for one additional reason. Right now we have hundreds of victims particularly at the Patras tower. The train is safe, no matter how safe it is, it appears from the information I shall submit. And I have also tabled a request for documents. You gave the right - beforehand, the state had given it to the State 'TRAINOSE' and now you gave it to private 'TRAINOSE' - to offset it with rent. In other words, the new 'TRAINOSE' will not even have its own rolling stock, we also grant it, and it will give a rent. But rent will never give because rents will charge maintenance costs, which we do not know how much it will be. You brought a law order, it was passed on 27-9-2016, but the enclosed contracts that prove the size of the financial valuation and the obligations of the State and what the rent is, you did not bring it to Parliament and I expect the documents to be deposited. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Before giving the floor to the Deputy Minister, Mr. Chrysovelonis, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having previously participated in the Educational Workshop of the Republic, which is organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and two teachers' attendants from the 8th Primary School of Argyroupolis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is now the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Marina Chrysovelonis, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I have listened very carefully to you. You just need to know that this government is not planning and is not interested in making 'blocks', even on the rail. We are interested in giving the Peloponnese substantial solutions, and in this respect we should give the Peloponnese a fresh breath on the rail, always taking into account that we are in an environment of economic suffocation and, of course, that there are also shortages of staff. In any case, however, I should like to point out the following: a large part of the Peloponnese network is included in the proposed projects for implementation within the 'Yunker package'. Of course you will know that. This project therefore concerns the conversion from metric to normal ranges and the upgrading of the existing single railway line in the respective sections of Patras - Tower - Alpheus - Kyparissia - Kalamata. For this project that you will also know connecting neighbouring countries is already under way a relevant viability, feasibility study, which will be completed in April 2017. However, higher on the Ministry's agenda is the promotion of the Peloponnese Region's tourist railway. In particular, therefore, the pilot reopening of the Peloponnese railway has been decided, with tourism and transport, a project which receives the very great support of the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Spirtzi, my own and also of the Deputy Minister for Tourism, Mr Koudoura. It is a challenge that will really give too much impetus to the railroad in the Peloponnese. For example, I mention. Chocolate - Olympia, Ododoto Kalavryton - Diakotou, Corinthos - Mycenes - Argos - Nafplio, Athens - Isthmos - Loutraki and others. So today - and I think it is a happy time when this question is being debated here - and tomorrow it is being held in Zurich, Switzerland, which has the subject of 'Tourism, trains and regional development', which aims to make use of the existing rail network for tourist purposes and transport purposes in general. At this symposium, which will take place, there will be a series of exemplary examples of the international experience of rail routes joining the global network of UNESCO's cultural heritage, and a corresponding possibility of joining the Peloponnese rail network will be explored in the UNESCO cultural heritage network. This symposium includes executives and representatives from the OSE, from GAIAOSE, as well as a multiplier delegation from the Peloponnese Region. If anything, then, you see, Mr Papoutsis, that within a climate which is difficult, in an extremely suffocating economic situation, on the part of the government there is a design in the railway sector, in which the Peloponnese is of course built.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much. The ninth question will now be discussed under number 56/10-10-2016 of the second cycle of the Greek Communist Party MP, Stavros Tassos, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the lack of teaching staff at the TEI of Athens. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Anagnastopoulou. Mr. Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. The winter academic semester began at the Athens TEI with shortcomings in teachers, since it is not possible - at least at the moment - to recruit the exceptional contracted scientific and laboratory associates that cover more than half the hours of teaching, especially in laboratory courses. These needs are constantly increasing, as permanent teachers are constantly retired and young people are not recruited. It is well known, of course, that there are drastic reductions in the funds from the regular budget, not only at the Athens TEI but also at all the TEIs and TEIs of the country, and the fees of the extraordinary partners covered are only thirty-nine for the academic year 2016-2017 and their payment will be made from the low reserves of the Athens TEI. For this reason, teaching hours, assigned to extraordinary partners, have been considerably reduced, around 40% to 50%, over the last five years. This decrease leads to a vertical deterioration in the educational process, because, while the needs in many cases are increased, they are hidden through the creation of overnumbers of laboratory groups - thirty, forty, fifty and a hundred people - with only one teacher. In addition, due to the lack of teaching many courses and workshops have been abolished in the new curriculum. In addition, no care has been taken by the Ministry of Education to ensure that contracts for extraordinary contracts have been signed in good time and to be able to teach immediately at the beginning of the academic year. The delay in the assignments to temporary partners will prevent the early start of several courses, particularly workshops, for more than one month, resulting in either the compelling of courses, the prolongation of the academic year, or the abolition of whole laboratory courses. So we ask you, Minister: What do you intend to do, in order, first, to recruit the teaching staff at the Athens TEI, but also at all the TEIs and TEIs in the country, with a permanent and stable employment relationship, to meet the enormous needs of teaching and research of the institutions? And secondly, should the contracts of the pending temporary teachers be signed immediately, to ensure that each training programme is fully covered by teaching staff, that all the laboratories are carried out under the intended safety and hygiene conditions, that no students remain outside the laboratory?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u66	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, you're probably not very well informed. First of all, for the recruitment process of laboratory and scientific associates at the TEI has been signed since 5/10, based on the Ministerial Act, the allocation of appropriations to educational institutions, so it is a matter of the institutions' services when they will complete the procedures for signing with stakeholders. Most of the educational establishments have been recruiting this staff, and for ten days they have been in and started teaching. Where they do not exist, this is not the state's responsibility, but the institutions themselves must speed up. Second point. For the first time this year these extremely long-term procedures for the adoption of an act of ministerial council were launched in June and it has already been signed, as I have told you. There has been the greatest possible care, and for the first time in thirty years we have been so authoritative of temporary staff. I would say that, as was seen in primary and secondary education, it was the Ministry's policy to start all levels of education properly. As far as the number of emergency posts is concerned, already from the academic year 2015-2016, the categorisation has stopped, which was a great one from 2010 to 2014. To be more specific, therefore, since 2015-2016 as many positions - credits requested for the disposal of cash balances were also approved for the academic year 2016-2017, they were held at the same level. Of the six hundred forty-seven, then, positions - credits, the two were allocated to the Athens TEI. As far as the use is concerned, because you say 'why is it available?', I have to say: if the available resources are not made available in difficult times, then when will they be made available? And you know, the available money is public money, too. It's not a money coming from elsewhere. Now, as far as the recruitment of permanent educational staff is concerned, this really is unfair. Apart from riskology or catastrophe, it is unfair, because this government gave a real breath of life to the highest institutions, moving on to recruitment of permanent staff to all the highest institutions, covering a thousand posts within a six-month period. The first five hundred posts were given in April and the second one was a few days ago, of which sixteen were assigned in April and twenty-three seats now. And to say that the Athens TEI has the lowest ratio between teachers and teachers. Again, in this case, we have given as many positions as we thought this TEI should have to have so that it does not lose its good ratio between teachers and learners. I will tell you that, especially at the Athens TEI, since the first in the second division, the 44% of posts were increased. To avoid eating any more time, I'll talk about the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u68	Mr Tassos, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u69	Minister, you say that there were as many people as they need to carry out the workshops and that lessons can be taught in such a way that there are no sections of thirty, forty, forty, forty and forty, forty and forty. You therefore doubt that the funds allocated by the regular budget for the remuneration of temporary partners only cover thirty-nine posts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u70	Absolutely, Mr. Tassos. I signed them with my hands and have them here to give them to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u71	Good. So you say and claim that at the moment the staff that exist - both the permanent and the extraordinary - are sufficient to operate the Athens TEI, but also the rest of the country's TEI and IEI, in a satisfactory manner. That's what you're saying. We question this because it is well known that these shortcomings exist. It is also known that the policy implemented in the field of education also aims to reduce expenditure from the ordinary budget only to save resources to pay creditors and to provide capital subsidies. This is the general policy you are pursuing in the field of education and health. We therefore repeat and revert and say that the permanent staff needed should be recruited so that all the teaching and research needs of the institutions can be met, and this permanent staff does not exist today. There's no today. As also, in many cases, not all courses are covered. This is part of the curriculum. Many lessons and workshops are being abolished. They have already been abolished, precisely because of the lack of teaching and scientific staff. So there are shortcomings in education and these shortcomings are great. And we say that, in the context of this policy, these needs cannot be met, because, as I have said, your policy aims to reduce both expenditure on education and on health and welfare, to save resources and to pay - as provided for in the Memorandum, namely - creditors and subsidies on capital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u72	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u73	Mr Colleagues, you may question and say that it is thirty-nine, but I have submitted the corresponding document in the Minutes, these two-year appropriations for the Athens TEI are signed and you can see the rest of the appropriations. Now, if you doubt it, it's your business, I can't do anything else. I would like to continue, however, by saying that especially for the Athens TEI, the four hundred members of permanent educational staff from the Athens TEIs, are added permanent staff - I insist - sixteen posts with the distribution of April, twenty three posts with the distribution made a few days ago plus twenty-one personal posts, permanent posts of workshop partners, in execution of an irrevocable judicial decision, which had been published in FEK since 13 October 2016. At the same time, three more posts have been allocated for the academic year 2016-2017 - credits for the recruitment of temporary educational staff and particularly hours of teachers under a fixed-term private-law contract. These positions do not bear the institution's reserves, but are credited to the regular budget. I would like to say another thing, Mr Tassos: According to the information sent to us by the Athens TEI, we are assured that the number of students in the workshops does not exceed twenty-five students. In fact, in several cases, this figure is less than twenty students. In fact, that is in line with the decision taken by the TEI Convention. Look, Mr Tassos, we did not just reduce the budget for education - and as we know and said the previous government, the budget would go to 1.8% - but the budget was the same. And especially for the High Institutions at 2.8%, we have a small - very small increase, this year's budget rise. I'll say one thing: miracles don't happen in one day. A disaster has occurred since 2010. What we have tried to do - and this cannot be completely questioned, because it is true, it is not 'we're doing' - is that we are trying with nails and teeth to breathe into education. The fact that there have been a thousand recruitments within a period of six months of permanent staff - to be precise, a thousand permanent members of the IGC were invited to the Higher Institutions - cannot be called into question. The fact that we at TEIs have given so much credit for research, laboratory staff - two hundred, for example at the Athens TEI - cannot be disputed because they are signed. They're cabinet acts. It's not something I'm saying. That this for the first time in thirty years, as happened in primary and secondary education, has already been done since the beginning of October - it has never happened - because we have taken care of the whole summer because it is a time-consuming process, nor can that be called into question. I agree with one thing: there is a need for greater budgets for education and health. I am not going to question that, and the government has not called into question it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, too. A series is now the 11th enquiry under number 55/10-10-2016 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problem of the Greek Open University. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the situation at the Greek Open University is quite critical. Therefore, you will allow me to pass on the thanks for your presence here today and discuss the critical problems. I have to tell you, too, that there are too many people, students and teachers of the PSUR and PSU who are following this debate. I begin with the main one: the first problem, Minister, has to do with full-time SPAs. A call of interest came toward the end of the summer, on the part of the Management Committee, where it had specific conditions for fixedterm contracts. In fact, you yourself said here that the blocks are now being abolished and we will go to fixed-term contracts. The problem is that this was not the case, despite the fact that too many of the candidates tried to contact the chairman of the Management Committee, from 7 to 17 October, this was not possible. Not only do we have no contracts, but we have blocks. We told those candidates last year: "Block the blocks" and this year we forced them to reopen the blocks. They were forced by the Management Committee, which, like the Ministry, thinks has abolished the blocks as you abolished HISBIA. I mean, he's coming back. And it comes back, Minister, and I would like to stress this, with the recruitment of 15 students, who have a fee of EUR 211 per month. With that kind of pay, you've hired this special charge. So let's go to the special category that is trying to find its point and I will submit to the Minutes just to hear it, read it, and you too, letters that have sent and denounce specific issues of openness of choice. The first is that there are no blocks. The second is that in this case we have opaque procedures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, is over. I shall also present in the minutes the call for expressions of interest for a reason which is very simple, because it is unprecedented at a university, at a new academic unit - we are both universities - to call for interest and say that they will later determine the selection criteria. To date, you know very well, selection criteria with which these people have been hired, as well as their duties, we have nowhere. We have learned who has been selected, and I have been denounced this fact: One Sunday one candidate received a call that the next day is full-time. His name so far has not appeared anywhere. The procedures through which these people were selected anywhere have not occurred. I shall close here and return to my dentext with many other problems, because it really is important, Mr President, that the PSF is afflicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u76	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I have actually been invited to this Chamber several times this year to speak about the PSC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u78	To me for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u79	For the first time in both time and your party, especially from your party and from others, I have been invited to respond to the PSC. It is really awkward how, suddenly, the PSC was at the heart of the discussions and indeed in a way that finally hits the PSC itself. So if you're going to hit us, you're hitting the NSA itself. I have another impression on the PSC at least, and not just on me, because I would have had it, there would have been no matter, but there would have been the impression of the whole world, especially the students, the teachers, the administrative staff and another world. I would like to begin by saying, Mr Papatheodorou, that after years of inertia that the EPA had made a completely closed institution, we suddenly have an institution that is extroverted and I will explain what I mean. Then I'll come to your question. I will, however, begin with a few things that we have arranged and which, if they stayed the way they were until the moment we set them up, would collapse the Open University. First theme, the administrative staff. Let someone tell me if a higher institution, any organization, can operate without administrative staff. For so many years that an RDP has been operating, no one has taken care of the administrative committees, nor has the state of your governments make an establishment plan to know what administrative staff they need. And not only this, but this administrative staff were paid via the ESDP. Do you know where we are, Mr. Papatheodorou? On New Year's Eve, this whole world, the administrative staff, had to leave, the university had to collapse, because it had finished the NRP because it was not possible to get paid and stay. I am not going to explain to you what superhuman efforts have been made by the management committee and by us in the Ministry of Education, so that the world can stay so that the university can function. So that's the first. In fact, it is now finally moving forward in the establishment of an organizational chart so that it can get permanent administrative staff, as it is worth in every institution. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr Papatheodorou, in order to say things as they are, to end with this issue of administrative staff and because, in your question, you let it be understood, by saying 'partnership, the government is intervening' and by other things - and this is your favourite cape and not just the party - that all administrative officials are left. All, zero and zero with the exception of, and excluding, all administrative officials who had been recruited by the former management committees. We have not "invaded" or kicked people or anything. There were very few recruitments for the new RDP programmes that had to run, few assignments, and that was all. I will return to the rest next.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u80	Thank you. Please, Mr. Papatheodorou, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you have not answered the question. I'll go on with other questions, keep the number. As well as you won't give me up on my interest in the PSC. I served it ten years and have been in relationship with both students and colleagues who constantly feed me with questions. What you have answered is the previous question I had tabled to you, which you hadn't answered. Now we're going to the other issues. Note.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u82	I have it here, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u83	Well, we find through the rated tables illegally blocked and arbitrary exception, by circumventing rated PLN members by the 2014 Act, on the grounds that they are either civil servants or that they are retired or that they are employed and employed at the same time in another PLN abroad. I want an answer that you found, that you act on, if there is a legal text, a circular, a decision, anything. We also find the unprecedented in Greek academic data. In other words, we have common postgraduate degrees of the PSC with other foreign universities. And it's the only university where U.S. teachers can't work in common postgraduate. It's forbidden by the commander. It's illegal, punishable. We know who you're punishing. But you know what? Because I told you, we're both academics, it evades all logic today that members of a university who collaborate at a postgraduate with another university can't work in this postgraduate. I move on to something else that is of great importance. The ranking lists of older GLP have been broken, you have changed the law quotas for 85% and 15% of new and new, without that, of course, having the opportunity to pass it through Parliament - you probably had it, and you did not - by simple decision of the Management Committee. All of this is opaque and arbitrary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But I want to tell you something else. Madam Minister, I would like your attention here, because what is actually happening in the PSC is not just what you said before, namely that we are accusing you of partisanism. There's nowhere in the world that you're doing. So I say to you: you say that in the new programmes, the candidate is assessed with 25% if he has economic or social problems. Do they hire the public? They're coming to teach. You've seen anywhere in a university that we have social and economic criteria, when the same people you've premiumd them, you put them on the block and get two hundred euros a month, because they have excessive retentions and contributions. Also, Minister, have you heard of the new postgraduate degrees? You've heard. Do you know who decided? The board of directors in ignorance of schools. The unprecedented also, is that no university is able to define a new postgraduate and learn it from the world or from the newspaper school. On the other hand, not knowing what the programme is, who will teach, how the notice will be made. That is why you have notices, Minister, to which no one comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u84	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u85	I shall conclude, Mr President. You took an institution that was enviable among academic institutions, and finally what you managed to do in a year and a half is a specific OAED. And I'm afraid you know that, too. The commander did it. The management committee, which is across the TPAs and across the LPAs, took a university and did it OAED for party friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u86	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u87	I shall conclude, Mr President. There are surnamed complaints of ethical and academic issues in the EAW. Please, before I come back with a new question, set it up and take care of the following: You know that opacity, like party recruitment, has the reaction at the moment of the GPAs, with appeals that will be brought to justice. Because when there is legislation or change it, or on the other hand what is happening is a cycle of opaque procedures, in an institution that is so open, as you said, that we are all following it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u88	Please, Mr. Papatheodorou, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u89	As I said before, I have served the foundation and I can have an opinion on how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u90	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u91	We heard a reason for complaint, and I don't know what to answer first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u92	I've got evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Papatheodorou, I do not ask you personally. You've asked me too many questions. I mean, because I don't have infinite time, three things: first, in the hanged house we don't talk about rope. Put that on your mind and we'll see about the complaints and the rest. I won't say anything else at the moment. There is already the 27-4-2016 approval decision of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, which concerns two thousand three hundred member positions. The criteria and lists, as they have been formed, have strictly followed the existing ranking lists, except in cases where they have not renewed availability or have been retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u94	Read the texts I gave you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Papatheodorou, don't interrupt me. I didn't interrupt you. I would like to say this: you say that 'counsellings, who also work at a university abroad', etc. So here, with regard to the Open University, my political will, that is, the Ministry's will, is to start opening up the foundations, Mr Papatheodorou, to a world of great value, which is unemployed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u96	Well done. Well, you'll have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u97	That's exactly what we're gonna do! But this subject of "I work at 15 universities while there are other colleagues, I'm the system, I'm a dean, anti-rector, Undersecretary and I work...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u98	Conspire with the illegality, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Papatheodorou, I'm not having a dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Papatheodorou, please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u101	You're getting a complaint, and now you're waiting for some answers. You have to listen to them, what to do! The staff need to be renewed. Again these lists were made according to the ranking lists available. Those who have not declared availability within the time limits available, those who are retired, have not entered the ranking lists, Mr Papatheodorou. Besides, whoever's in trouble can send a letter to the Ministry, let's see it. As for the complaints of moral and other order you said, I don't know them. If they come to me at the Ministry, I'd be happy to see them. I would refer to one last point, which is not last: you say that the administration took a decision on various projects, which the Quaestors did not know about. I guess those who informed you don't know we've legislated, and the board of directors also includes deans. They have not informed you that, by legislative progress towards the separatism of the PSC - something that has not happened for so many years - there are also deans. If they weren't at the board meetings, I can't know, because, as you know, Mr. Papatheodorou, we started rehabilitating the university from the Ministry. We have decided that internal issues that the administration decides not to come to the Ministry. And where are those jewelers? I mean one thing, Mr. Papatheodorou. Last year - because I also have picture from last year - the students took their books in November. This year, for the first time, they have already taken their books. I know they've opened programs. You say: "You have handed over the SPS in a situation...". Can I tell you what the PSC was handed over by the previous commander? Last year, the U.S.A. records had fallen by 30%, not to mention more. He had a declining course. We have changed the method of selecting the candidate students and it is no longer possible, that is, with this unique - not in the territory, but internationally - drawer system, but they can enter as many students as possible. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, because Mr Papatheodorou has taken a little more time, give me a little more time too. Mr Papatheodorou, in addition to all that, complaints and all that, why do you not mention anything about a university that is for the first time performing its social role? First of all, out of the three cities he had for counselling meetings, he has twelve cities now. He opened annexes to various parts of Greece. He has produced projects, which are very important. Can I report you a few with a social status?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u102	Madam Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u103	Let me speak, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Papatheodorou, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u105	Let me speak, because you have stayed in the language of a previous period, and I am also sorry for you personally because we know and know that we are both academics. So there's a distance program to be able to teach prisoners. There's a refugee programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u106	Programme for refugees with zero candidates! I can't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u107	There's a number of such programs going on. There's a deal with the Justice Department for penitentiary officers. I'm not talking about special lawsuits. I think that all this mess you see, which you say nothing works, does not exist. What's wrong with teachers who weren't available and didn't put them in the margins they had to get off the lists? Well, that's all right, Mr. Papatheodorou! It's all right! Let this system change a little, you flank, you counteract, and even Undersecretaries teach in the U.S.S.A.! Mercy! And I would like to say another one - and I am closing with that, Mr President - for students. When did it ever become such a coordinated effort, apart from increasing student consultancy towns, to have a reduced ticket? I'll let you know, they've got a reduced ticket to the CCTVs. And for the first time this board of directors managed the books, the university writings to enter the E.D.O., like all university writings, and we have the same criteria. I could list a lot more. To conclude, Mr Papatheodorou, there is an important reform of GDP. If you want and have the mood, because I know very well that you are interested in this university and are sincere and academic in your interest, I would tell you to follow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u108	I'm watching it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u109	To monitor this reform, to make, of course, your criticism, to give the ideas you have, because it is important to get ideas from people who worked there and discuss them fertilely. Let this shooting of GDP stop. Mercy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how forty students and students and three teachers from the 6th Grade Gatsis. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: 'Social and Solidarity Economics and Development of its institutions and other provisions'. At the meeting on 19 October 2016, the bill was discussed and passed at the outset. Today's session will discuss the articles and amendments of the bill as one unity. The procedure is as follows: the rapporteurs and the special speakers will first speak on the articles and amendments, then the remaining speakers on the principle, who will also speak on the articles and the amendments, and then take the floor on the list of speakers on the articles and amendments. Does the House agree with the proposal made by the Bureau?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u112	The House therefore agreed. We shall proceed with the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Stoyannides, who will have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my introduction to the articles of the Social and Solidarity Finance Act, I would like to inform the House of an unpleasant fact. Today at dawn, the Regional Director of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, George Pavlides, died at the hospital of Xanthi. He lost the fight with cancer. I also express from the Step my condolences to his relatives. Ladies and gentlemen, the first article of the bill sets out the purpose of the legislation, which is to create a favourable institutional environment, which will facilitate the participation of those who want it, in productive activities which are governed by the characteristics of the social and solidarity economy. Article 2 gives definitions of the concepts used in the law. Chapter II 'Social and mutual economic institutions' in Article 3 describes the status of social and mutual economic institutions, the conditions which each legal person must fulfil for the performance of that status and the way in which it is acquired. Paragraph 1 stipulates that this status is automatically attributed to the JEPs, to workers' cooperatives. For other legal persons or associations of persons, the reimbursement to them of the status of a social and solidarity economic operator shall be effected where their statute contains the necessary provisions of this Law and shall apply the restrictions laid down in the distribution of their profits if they are profit-making. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Chapter C describes supportive measures. This article regulates support measures for social and solidarity economic operators. The social and solidarity economic operators, registered in the register, have access to financial instruments such as the National Entrepreneurship and Development Fund and development law. Chapter IV refers to Social Cooperatives. The Social Cooperative Enterprises are defined. These are civil cooperatives under Law 1667/1986 which have as their general objective the collective and social benefit, i.e. on the one hand, the mutual service of the needs of their members through the creation of equal relations of production, the creation of stable and decent jobs and the reconciliation of personal, family and professional life and, on the other, the service of social needs of a local or broader character, by exploiting social innovation through activities of sustainable development or the provision of social services of general interest or the provision of services of services of a vulnerable or special nature, as defined in Article 2. Chapter V refers to workers' cooperatives. I would like to say that workers' cooperatives are something that was first introduced into Greek legislation. This article defines workers' cooperatives. They are civil cooperatives, which are legally commercial in nature and which produce collective benefit, i.e. they achieve the mutual service of the needs of their members through the creation of equal production relations, the creation of stable and decent jobs and the reconciliation of personal, family and professional life, and it is also stipulated that the workers' cooperatives are only natural persons who wish to be sown collectively and autonomously, as a result of common goods and services for third parties. I would like here to extend a little further, because there is a misunderstanding in our country over the last decades for cooperation. Although, in the 1970s-80s, there was a development of cooperatives, especially in my region, there were also cooperative industries, unfortunately they declined, not because it was the cooperative's fault, but because of mismanagement and the wrong way of administration. Unfortunately, people who did not have knowledge were appointed to these businesses. They also became State-owned enterprises. This is not the case with this bill. I can tell that there are no misunderstandings. In Chapter IV, "Other provisions, transitional provisions" in Part II, we have the establishment of a Special Secretariat for Social and Solidarity Economics. The proposed provision is made up of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity in a single administrative area, entitled "Special Secretariat for Social and Solidarity Economy". Its operation will have as its task the implementation and implementation of the government's social and solidarity policy in a more effective way. In more detail, it draws up the national strategy for the social and solidarity economy, monitors and coordinates the relevant actions for the implementation and safeguarding of the consistency of the national strategy. It studies and produces policies and supervises their implementation for the benefit of the citizen. It develops cooperation in the thematic areas with relevant ministries, specialises in the national strategy by sector, in cooperation with the relevant ministries and bodies, and monitors international developments. Chapter B refers to the establishment of a Roma Special Secretariat. Social solidarity plays an important role in supporting and strengthening vulnerable social groups, such as the Roma. The fight against social exclusion is the goal of the government. It is therefore essential that all areas of social life intervention by the State to end the exclusion of the Roma, improve their social and economic situation, and their substantial social and labour integration. It is therefore briefly stated that a Special Secretariat for Social Integration of Roma is set up, subject directly to the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, responsible for social solidarity issues and set out its aims. As Minister Fotou said yesterday, in Greece we have a hundred and fifty thousand Roma. Unfortunately, the political system of these people had set them aside. He used them many times. Especially in my area, it is common secret that he only remembered them in the election. He was buying votes from them, that is, those who had the money to pay them. I will give you an example. Last year I was in a JEP in Xanthi. There were two Roma, one 25 and the other 30 years old. The JEP clerk asked them to make a responsible statement. One asked each other, "Do you know how to write?" And the other answered 'no'. Two young people, namely, did not know how to write their name and grew up in that country. I think it is disgraceful for our political system that there are young people who do not know how to write their name. In the settlement that exists in Xanthi, Frororo, there are thousands of inhabitants in season. But if anyone goes to the High School, he'll see dozens of kids. While these people are tense, their children are not going to school. This proves that we should show special care and attention. We should finally be interested in these people. As the Minister has pointed out, all the money that will be spent on them will not come from state funds, from the budget, but from Community funds. He just needs coordination. We must therefore not be negative in setting up a special Roma secretariat. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. I would also like to make a reference to the estimates made for outstanding liabilities by the EEAS, due until 2012. I said yesterday that this is a very serious matter. We believe that the reductions made to people who are late or instigated are very small. Unfortunately, it is not properly described in the article of the law. He's reporting for 45% reduction, but he's referring to the remaining 10% remaining, as they've got the 90% advance. We therefore believe that the regulation is in the right direction. Also, with the amendment tabled by the Minister, to those due to up to EUR 15 000 there will be a 20% reduction and not 45%. I repeat that the report is for 10% of the total amount. So it is 4.5% in total for those receiving large amounts and 2% in total for those receiving smaller amounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister, Mrs Antonopoulou, wants to table some legislative improvements. Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to table some legislative improvements. The first relates to paragraphs 2, 11 and 12 of Article 2, which are withdrawn. It is a correction of the already filed from 19-10-2016 under 4 legislature. The second concerns paragraph 1 of Article 3 which is recast. In order not to get far, I would like to say that what we are doing here is to establish that it is not about the public sector that it is about the social economy. In other words, in the sense of definitions for social economic operators we have defined social cooperatives, social cooperatives with limited liability, workers' cooperatives. The d. said: ‘Any other non-legislative legal person, having acquired legal personality, such as agricultural cooperatives, civil cooperatives, civil companies, provided that the following conditions are met cumulatively’. And then we have the prerequisites. Here, then, we have added the fbi, which says: 'it has not been established and is not directly or indirectly administered by DPRK or OTAs or grade two or by another legal person in the wider public sector'. That was a request that we discussed and incorporated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u116	In Article 3?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u117	Yes, it's in Article 3(1).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u118	But that's not true either. Madam Minister, the new articles should be given, as they have been designed. We're not making any sense. You've changed everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u119	It is a recast of Article 3(1).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, because there are a lot of legislative changes and improvements, which have been made, the agency informs me that it is working constantly so that it can shape and have them. It's a lot of people and the problems you're talking about are created, it's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u121	Let us listen to the general context.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u122	We just need to know, Minister, that we're done with these legislators so that the agency can work efficiently.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u123	We're done, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u124	I always keep a reservation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u125	The reservations are good, but to help.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u126	Let's hear the generals and see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u127	(d) added at the end of paragraph 6 of Article 34 of Law No 4144/13 (A'88) by Article 52, recasts to incorporate the case law of the Court of Auditors. It is a very small change that we bring together and recast as follows: 'The costs of the ‘LEEK’ and ‘Social Policy Account’ sectors are borne by the resources paid to the OAED over time which do not constitute a State grant - that is what we have added - or financing the beneficiaries of this Article and paid by the relevant cash assets, regardless of whether it has been transferred from IKA or the ECA, in the year of their payment, the amount corresponding to these uniform expenditures'. Finally, I would like to inform you that there is another amendment - we have just taken the oath that it will be incorporated - on tax reductions. They're coming right now, they're preparing her and they're putting her down. There's this one that's pending and coming now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, please speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u130	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u131	A major technical problem is beginning to arise. Will we have an integrated text at the time of the vote? We're starting to lose the booze, Mr. Katsotis is right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Barriotta, we'll have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u133	It's very important. We are a few hours before the vote, and we may be voting on others and ending up with others. It is good to complete the text.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u134	The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Sophia Vultesis, has been speaking for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. There has been a problem, because, from what we have understood, a problem has arisen in the numbering of the entire bill, and that is why, while we are discussing the articles, we cannot go in and make reference to one - one of the articles or be fully placed. I would like to make it clear that if it were just the part, which concerns the social economy, which we have worked hard on, it could be overcome. Now, as far as the amendments are concerned, there are insuperable obstacles. Our parliamentary representative and former Minister for Labour, Mr Panayotopoulos, will speak on the amendments because we have disagreements on several of them now, as they have come. Some of them have joined the bill, but we don't have the bill. He knows the whole body. I'm not chasing anyone. There have been many changes, many corrections and we cannot now give the Minister or the services responsibility. Perhaps we could agree to take it and come back another day - as has happened other times - so that we can vote on an article at a time and know what we are voting on. I fear that we will have a problem with what we voted on at the end of the day. Let the Bureau see this, because I think it is also a matter for the Bureau and the Minister, of course, but above all for the Bureau if we could do so with regard to the articles. That is to say, we must do the same for the vote, because they tell me that this is going to be late at noon. We'll have that difficulty. I don't know, look at it. It would probably be worth it, because there have been several changes and I do not think it is a problem for the day of the vote to change a little. That is why I have to say: as you have all seen, in the Chamber, the New Democracy has been responsible for and on the basis of the common good has dealt with this bill and the conditions have therefore been created to work together on these corrections which now give us these practical problems, so that we can all know what we are voting on, especially as parties. We are interested in the development of the third sector, and we believe that the conditions have now matured in order to develop in our country as well. We have tried very hard to make our remarks, to talk to the institutions, to have contact with everyone and to solve many problems. That is why these changes have been made, which I can tell them now, but I will not tell them in writing, because this is not the case with the numbering, particularly with regard to the benefiting groups, where the young people under the age of twenty-five years are also going to benefit. On the issue of equal pay for equal work, we have seen that this has been deducted and has merely remained proportional to a minimum remuneration. All right, that's what the general meeting will decide. I wish they had revenues to pay for both maximum and minimum fees. This depends on us and the government in particular in terms of the application of the law. It is clear - and especially now with the new legal intervention of the Minister - that we are now fully distinguishing the third sector from the private and the public, as it should have been. It has been made clear that there is no double registration, i.e. both in their registry and in GEMI, but there will be a new register that will work as GEMI. This was a request from the institutions to avoid duplicates. Further clarification has been given of certain criteria for the granting of the movable and immovable property. It is an issue that many may object to, but it must also work on. The role of volunteers in their relations with Social Cooperatives has been clarified. It has been clarified that the tool for social impact will be voluntary, so it will not cause additional problems and headaches to those who want to be active in this area. The debate that took place around the two new secretariats is, I think, exhausted. We have good faith that there is a need for skilled staff and therefore we expect to see the invitation to the whole wider sector, where they may be serving officials who have some experience, experience, knowledge. I think we'll generally find a end. As far as the social economy is concerned, I do not see any problems. Problems were created after. At this point I would like to say that we have had cooperation with a view to the common good. However, yesterday's presence in the House of Minister Katrugalos, like his presence last week in the committee, disturbed the Civic Opposition. Mr. Katrugalos knew that a bill of goodwill and good intention was being discussed, but he came to talk about another issue, except for his responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u136	Like Mr. Mitsotakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u137	It's not his responsibility. She's a constitutionalist, but now she's a Minister of Labour. It was therefore the subject of the Qualified Opposition on the subject of public life, the question of'regulating' the broadcasting landscape, which raises serious questions of compliance with the constitutional and democratic order. This is under the responsibility of the government. We didn't cause anything. Mr. Katrugalos came to plenary to overthrow the Civic Opposition and, in general, the opposition parties, to say that "you are responsible for struggling". I want to be careful and you saw that I have been very careful all these days and I have not referred to other incidental issues. However, Mr Katrugalos would do well to deal with the issues of his ministry and leave the role of the constitutionalist to others. It is also very annoying that it comes back and is causing opposition by asking it, as far as labour is concerned, if the Civic Opposition, New Democracy, is in favour of returning collective negotiations or is with the IMF. Excuse me, but this is a matter that we have solved as government since 2014. We wanted to go to the two-month extension, precisely to deal with the issues of the IMF, with which we negotiated when you called us with various hybrid designations. So that's not our issue, whether it's going to be or not. We have a clear position, both on the subject of work and on the subject of collective bargaining and on all issues relating to the competence of Mr Katrugalos. However, in the September 2015 elections, SYRIZA invited the people to vote for him because, as he said, only SYRIZA could negotiate these open issues, including labour. Now, then, the people came and gave the order. You say: 'Our people trusted us to negotiate'. Mr. Katrugalos what does he want? Because he comes and comes again, in this hybridistic way, and attacks the opposition by saying that he is against the International Monetary Fund and the opposition is in favour. The opposite happens. Because we did not pursue the IMF from Brussels to Davos and Davos to Washington and Washington to Lima Peru. Mr. Chakalotos has done it. So, then, I don't understand why every man so much Katrugalos in this style comes and asks us if we're with the IMF. No, we're not with the IMF. You're with the IMF, Mr. Catrugale. I would like to address the Minister, because I and Mr Katrugalo cannot agree. It can't be done. Every time there is a matter of the Ministry of Labour, a number of citizens - I do not know where they belong politically and I do not care - bring different requests and tell me this, I do have that. From Mr Katrugalos, who does not, as I understand it, deal with these 'poor' issues - because every time we are bombarded with problems, so I do not know, it is not solved - I cannot expect it to give solutions to the problems of the world. He fights the IMF and the involvement. It's in another bullet. He's done the overrun. But here, and I will give it to you, Minister, you can see it, because you may be able to process it - there are people with disabilities involved in the scratches of bureaucracy, between IKA, IKA and CEPA, there is a mill, while it is under certain laws. Maybe you need some clarifications. For example, there are OAED teachers who are subject to the 1994 laws and who are now somehow out of the process and should not be out of the question after protecting them. I will give you these to see, as I have said, whether we can reach agreement and leave Mr Katrugalo to the great fight which is taking place against internal and external enemies. Finally, I told you that the amendments will deal with our parliamentary representative because we have objections. For example, in the area of cleaning, we have said that in the end, those who make contracts with the public are not paid at all. Mr. Madda, they've been coming and protesting since they stopped. We do not defend anyone, but we know that these contracts with the public are problematic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u138	We'll explain them later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u139	You'll explain it. We have a problem with the EMCDDA, because it ends up paying the EMCDDA that is broken up. We can see what's going on. I don't know. I told you we have disagreements on some of these issues, in other words, no. Mr. Panayotopoulos will deal with this. Therefore, let me say and conclude that we agree with the articles which clearly concern the social economy. I'm saying it with a fear because I haven't seen it all. We'll see. If we could vote another day, it would be better. As far as the amendments, which concern other issues, whether by-pass or not, are concerned, we will see them in the course of the day and, as our parliamentary representative has told you, it will explain exactly how we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u140	Colleague special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. The definitions of Article 1 are characterized by vagueness and unclearness, which even the most well-meaning scholar of this law from the outset realises that these are words and declarations of no substance and seriousness which, rather, a hole in the water can create, despite the stable and favourable environment that they are publishing. New and ambiguous legal concepts that are capable of multiple interpretations, it goes without saying that they will create more problems than they are supposed to solve, while the absence of a clear framework and rules can open the way to foreign activities for their purposes which declare that they are seeking the draft law. In Article 2, again, there are definitions used in the draft law in question. In addition to the definition of the social and solidarity economy, which, as mentioned above in the overall analysis of the present, creates a framework of cloudy, vague and problematic, terms and conditions for the participating entities are to lead to mathematical accuracy in their malfunction and ineffectiveness. The involvement of healthy productive forces in our country in the experimentation of the government and the fragmentation of public and Community resources, in order to satisfy the marxist dreams of the inspirations of this draft law, is going to have a direct impact on our national economy. In particular, while Article 2(2)(c) provides that legal entities and associations do not prioritise the maximisation and individual specificisation of their profits and apply restrictions on the distribution of profits, the general meeting is, in essence, able to form the highest net salary at the appropriate level. So according to the 'lighters' - who obviously legislate with their minds, I, October revolution - now the general assembly of a legal person is doing management and not supervising, as its role is by law, having the ability to define whatever the upper limit it wants in wages. Therefore, those responsible for the collapse of the wages of Greek workers, even at the levels of EUR 300 or 400, promise without maximum wages in the name of solidarity, social justice and any other account they try to falsify to their public in the eyes of spoon. However, special attention should also be paid to the term 'just and mutual' trade. On the one hand, one should explain to the authors of the draft law and, on the other hand, to the Left, that the term 'convergence' and'solidarity' is not panacea for use anywhere. The real, normal trade carried out under the existing legislation works with specific rules and principles, pays taxes and supports our national economy. Is that fair, unfair? Also, we see a wording in verse (b) of paragraph 6. It is an expression that needs great attention. It's racist. It can be characterized as fascist, nazi. Do you accept that there are races that need special protection against others? Fortunately, however, for the authors of this legislation, this provision refers to animal breeds and not human beings. So it's not falling - yet! - the provisions of anti-racist law. However, comrades on the left are a good step to accept the existence of different races even in the other species of the animal kingdom. It's a good start. Under the provisions of Articles 4, 5, 6, a vicious cycle of squandering public money begins through the obsolete financing of state-owned individuals in fact. In the end, it is up to the substance and the real purpose of the draft law to be passed. The reason for this is no longer the economy and much more the social and solidarity of the economy. This is the establishment of state-owned schemes, which will be fed on by the public corps and the Community funds, and which will defuse funds, to the detriment of the healthy productive forces in our country, which not only have the potential to finance state funds or even aid, but are being exterminated by the state itself, which will, however, fund solidarity and all kinds of alternative forms of economy. Article 7 deals with issues relating to the provision of voluntary services to non-member social and solidarity institutions. Okay, for volunteering in Greece we've heard many times since Olympic Games. But a question arises here. You know, all volunteers are but on some islands they get 2,500 euros to 3,000 euros in some NGOs. Anyway. In view of the fact that Article 2 of the present concept of special groups includes economic migrants and refugees, that is, all illegal immigrants living in our own country, the particular shape of the COMCOM on Integration is obvious that it operates as the fifth pillar. Why? In order to channel funds back to illegal immigrants and at the same time to harness them in local communities under the pretext of participation in these bodies. It is another case of racism against the Greeks, since economic immigrants and refugees, as referred to in Article 2, are preferred against the Greeks not on the basis of income criteria, but on the basis of the fact that they are not Greeks, which is why they are preferred. Now we go to the Roma Special Secretariat for Social Integration, which is directly subordinate to the Minister responsible and with a view to their integration into society and the regulation and management of relevant issues. Here, of course, we've been going into a long story for hundreds of years. Unfortunately, we don't have time to analyse it. The annual expenditure of all these committees, secretariats, etc. We analysed it yesterday - it exceeds EUR 600,000 a year, with the most moderate calculations and without taking account of expenditure from the Social Economy Fund and the possibility of Article 44(3) giving the Special Secretary for Social Integration of the Egyptians to set up working groups with the participation of individuals, but the level of which, as stated in the relevant reports, depends on facts. Here we will have post-calls, partners, consultants, commissions, a multitude of organs. It's an outrageous case of breaking public money. But even more outrageous and suspicious is the fact that it is not specified in the relevant provision or who will be the individual, and on the basis of which criteria they will be chosen, and on the basis of which criteria they will be chosen, if the text itself and the relevant reports show that they will not be volunteers. At least, let them hire the gypsies in these working groups to reduce their crimes and violations, which in their caste. Furthermore, with regard to the burden of the State budget on the financing of social and solidarity economies for the execution of programming contracts - Article 5(3) - for the grant of workers' cooperatives - Article 33(1) - there is no specific assessment of the burden to be incurred for the public funds. A simple reference is made to the relevant reports on 'possible annual expenditure'. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Minister, the Golden Dawn League has tabled some amendments. These amendments refer to long-term unemployed due to old age and disability. We have tabled amendments which are very important to SMEs, the priority of disabled people in satisfying claims by insurance companies - you know, I am talking about 'ASP PROMOTION', 'COMMERClAL VALUE', etc. - for the purpose of providing a working allowance for disabled persons who have been found to be 80% or more of the disability. Because we disabled people have put them first. No matter how much the means of dismantling want to show the opposite, we're right next to them. It's up to you now to show us whether you're with them too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the 2nd Drapetsonas High School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u144	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u145	As regards the remarks made by Mrs Vultesis earlier - unfortunately, she is not here at the moment, but I imagine she will listen to me - for the Minister of Labour, Mr Katrugalo, I would like to say that, of course, I will pass on what she has given me to the Minister and I am sure she will consider them. On the other hand, I would like to ask that we do not speak in such a derogatory way. You're bringing me into a very difficult position personally, because I have to answer what you said. The Minister has undertaken and accomplished a very difficult task, and the Ministry of Labour is doing everything in its power to ensure the best conditions that he can. So please, when you have any comments you would like to make on our Minister, at least make us the honour of being present, so that he can answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u146	The special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill which was broadly accepted yesterday. Before entering this bill in itself, I would like to mention, Minister, and through you, the message is to the government and particularly to the Ministry of Health - the fact that there are complaints that the administration of the EAW is persecuting workers who are involved in today's strike. As far as I know, the administration of the EMCDDA is part of this SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the administration of the EMCDDA should at least respect the workers' right to protest and strike. I'm saying this because we saw them a little while ago with the EKA ambulances that are outside. By the way, I should like to begin with the amendment that came to the night. Look, the Democratic Alliance is not against privatization. But what privatizations? The core of the National Health System? Nor did we ever say that the private sector should not help the EAEC. But, the EKA rescuers right now, who give a very hard fight, need this deal with some companies, without criteria, without contest, nights? What exactly is this amendment, ladies and gentlemen of the government? What exactly does this amendment want to do? I say this to colleagues in the Com mittee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, because we need to think about it. Why didn't you get her into consultation? If we wanted the private sector to help, with transparency criteria and procedures, after the possibilities of the Army, the Air Force, the port, have been exhausted, then we can see under what conditions, with transparency and with consultation, whether or not this can be done. The workers? Do they have any opinions on this? Did you hear them? Did the Minister hear them? You, where are you, Ministry of Employment, did you hear them? I would say that you should withdraw the amendment to the EKRD and sit down to discuss everything, but not so. There's no time. Madam Minister, you have brought the unemployment amendments. I'm going to look after the one you brought in now to see her. Unemployment is a very serious issue. You will see today that six out of ten employed workers are part-time. This is a very important issue. This is happening, unfortunately, and you know it. That is why we will be very careful in handling the amendments. We have objections, but because I do not have too much time, I undertake to present them to you during the debate. Of course, I am opposed to the fact that if this were to happen over our days, not just would you denounce us that we are importing working conditions from the globe, but also more, because we have heard and suffered too much. But it's not here. I'm coming to the bill now. Look, we have a hundred and twenty-three legislative improvements. This also has its positive side, as we said yesterday with Mr Barriotta from Potami, that you have heard, Madam Minister, and you personally have several of our proposals. I heard you - because I was with the EKA workers who asked to see the parties - and I heard what you said about tax incentives. I consider it very important that you have heard the voice of the social companies themselves, but also of other parties, that they really need tax incentives. So we'll see the arrangement you've brought. We also welcome the fact that red tape is falling and there will be a register, in fact a simplified procedure. We consider that to be a good thing. But I come to some problems. Listen, Minister, on the question of the disposal of property, to simply add the principles of objectivity and transparency to the law, it is good, but it is not enough. We believe that the provision here should be specified and further specified. That is why we have said, Mr President - and this is to you - that the debate on the articles of the bill should normally take place next week so that the government too can improve. Why do you know something, gentlemen, from all sides? Here we will be and come to improve provisions again. So I say that in the matter of real estate, we are not covered. We think there should be specific criteria. Also, the "Social Impact Measurement Tool" is converted into optional. We understand the difficulties of identifying it. However, it is not "head hurts, cuts head". We would like to see an effort on your part, rather than throw it away. Two more points I'm going to make. We do not believe that the issue of programming contracts is being improved by the regulation you have brought. It was also a problem with the previous law, with the law that we have brought and with which this law falls. The problem was that a competitive process with criteria and transparency was needed. You're not answering this void. We therefore consider it very important that further improvement should be made in this article. We also consider it important to point out that at some point you are abolishing what you themselves brought, the ban on sub-contracting by a public company from a public company. Why are you doing this? I think it was a good measure to ban subcontracting. I now come to an issue which is not a bill, but within the scope of the law and can affect the implementation of the bill, because we also have to discuss these in the articles. They are the urban non-profit companies of the municipalities. We believe that these companies should not - and this is perhaps a matter of institutionalisation - be involved in social enterprises, in the social business sector. I'm not sure if it has to be regulated, but you need to see this, because it will be - to say it with a proverb - "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u148	We did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u149	If you said so, I'll see it - you see they're stormy, we don't have time - and we'll be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u150	Yeah, he's in setup.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u151	Last point. For NGOs, they should not receive incentives and money from these provisions that we are voting on today and at the same time have not accumulated any money. You can understand that, with this bill, we all share Parliament's wings, which we are voting on, the need to shield this process so that it cannot insulate strange situations. In fact, there will be, but the controls will have to be intensified. It is not enough, but we must also look at the issue of NGOs. I conclude by saying that on the Roma issue - Mrs Fotou is not here, but I have listened very carefully to her position - we agree on the integration of the Roma and we are very willing to work with all parties for this. We agree that this integration improves the conditions of the Roma themselves and prevents social racism, which exists. But we disagree that the way to do this is to make another special secretariat. I have substantiated it yesterday, I insist today, we do not need any more special stamps. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing.]] Mr President, I too ask for your tolerance for one or two minutes, because there are too many articles and amendments. Mrs Fotiou told us yesterday - other colleagues will talk about this - that we have brought an amendment to modulate the structures of poverty. I think he could welcome it and tell us and thank you for that. Because if you do not want to accept our own amendment, let us have an inter-parliamentary amendment with those of our fellow Members, because we do not, in fact, disagree. What do we say? We say that in 66 municipalities these structures have been created, there are over 120 thousand beneficiaries, there is the new design for community centres, after the government has been clarified, we have voted - I remind you - in good faith, this design. What's the target now? Ensure these people, because they are months unpaid and the structures of poverty, aggregations, sleeping rooms, etc. will be closed. So we say: let us legislate on the criteria, which will enable the experienced staff, who have so far worked, to maintain and, of course, will also have opportunities to get younger people into the history of dealing with poverty and gain experience and be able to offer them. Firstly, for the benefit of the users themselves, who are our most difficult fellow citizens, for the benefit of the structures themselves, which must continue to offer, please take a warm look at this amendment of the Democratic Incorporation. Finally, Mr President, and I thank you for your tolerance, I will just say one word. You have legislated eight times for the famous contract of work in hospitals and other public bodies. After it has come to you that this is contrary to Union law, you have today brought an amendment to a fixed-term employment contract. Look, she's in trouble, and she's going to swallow it again. We don't say it with bad faith, we say it so we can make it. We will not vote for it, but if the government majority votes for it, I will say that you cannot make fixed-term contracts for fixed and fixed-term needs. Cleaning, storage of a building in hospitals and other public buildings and feeding are not exceptional conditions. They're standing and constant needs. We regret, but this amendment will also be swallowed as a paper tower. In conclusion, we believe that this bill is a positive contribution. We believe that most of us, Minister, have not been able to improve them as much as we would like and I hope you would like. We're going to vote on some articles. We're specific. However, we want you to withdraw the amendment to the EAFRD and I think you should withdraw the amendment if there is any other arrangement for hospitals. This amendment cannot go any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, my colleague. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Christos Katsotis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday I think that we developed our arguments on the issue of the draft law on the so-called social economy and whether it can actually be developed in the context of capitalism. Of course, we see that there is indeed a great deal of agreement here in the parties. All the ideological currents - liberals, social democrats, old and young - the various opportunistic currents and shapes, which do not question this capitalist way of production, seek to integrate and form popular forces on this road and through the social economy. Everyone is in agreement with the draft law, which is in the direction of the bodies of capital, the OECD and the European Union, which are also dedicated to material support in order to develop this sector. I imagine that none of you or any of those who listen to us do think that capital is reversed by supreme law, profit. Because you say that the social economy operates on other criteria. The draft law promotes, as we said yesterday, the commercialisation of social benefits, which must be provided by the State, to alleviate the state budget, to stay even more to go to business groups, i.e. warm money coming out of the robbery of the Greek people, with tax relief, with subsidies and other benefits. This draft law aims to manage the explosive problem of unemployment by creating the new category of self-employed in social economy and not only workers, but also volunteers, i.e. unpaid workers, with hunger wages, and occasional - who will certainly not be listed on the unemployed lists. It aims at altering the content of entrepreneurship with the features that you want to give them, those of social content. In response to the armies of the unemployed with cooperatives of workers, who can continue to manage bankrupt private enterprises. Of course, the experience that exists in our country also from the problematic businesses in PASOK, but also from BIOME, is that their evolution demonstrates that in capitalism this function merely strengthens the strategy of the system itself. So let's go to the articles, because we've said a lot to the rest. We will not vote on the articles relating to the so-called social economy. We will vote'residences' in Articles 42, 49 concerning the setting up of a Roma Special Secretariat. I'm guessing we'll get the numbers right after the changes you've made. Article 51 also prolongs the payment of pensions and allowances if the delay in the examination by the CEPD is not due to the disabled or disabled until 30-617, provided that the previous crisis had a disability rate of 67%. It is also required for the disabled or the disabled to return the money he received as a disability benefit, as well as any type of allowance, if after the examination of the CEPR he does not receive a pension rate or receive a small disability rate. It is well known that in these committees over recent years it has been a norm to reduce the level of disability to people who have not changed their health status in relation to the previous period. However, the direction that exists also operates with those committees that exist. The JRC has become a mechanism to reduce the number and level of disability pensions and allowances by limiting their allocation to a small part of the total serious disability. We consider this provision to be unacceptable, which provides for the obligation to return this money. I mean, how will the disabled or the disabled live if they take away his poor income from him anyway, and today they're asking for it back, because it's not 67%, but it's 65%. We will vote'residents' for the other arrangements and we believe that this should be removed, namely the search for disabled pensions if the JRC does not consider the disability rate to be a pension. The Special Scientific Committee drawing up the rules for assessing the degree of invalidity must determine on the basis of the table of this Act, No. 2643/98, the chronic diseases resulting in limited opportunities for employment. Revision of the table can be done by a decision of the Minister of Labour, he says, the Disability Department of the IKA - EBRD and after consulting the Special Scientific Committee. In addition, the Minister is given the opportunity to decide to amend the table. Those who belong to the disease in the table may participate - it says - in the employment coverage notices, as provided for in the above law. This, of course, has been the case for many years now. However, the review of the table may mean not only inclusion of other diseases, but also abolition from the list of illnesses that existed to date. We shall vote'residences' in this article. Article 51 relates to the real estate of the social security institutions, which, by decision of the boards of directors, and the approval of the relevant Minister to lease either one - or one - in groups of other bodies. We don't agree. Our position is to make use of the properties of social security institutions for the benefit of the people as a whole and what they need to be rebuilt or made available through state funding and to go to social structures such as homes, children's stations, rehabilitation centres and multi-medical hospitals. There is in this article the dismantling of the single capital compensation to shippers. We will not agree, if this chapter, which is of the workers themselves, is lost. It is a matter on which I think the other parties should stand. Local social inspection departments are recommended by a joint decision of the Ministers. We know that there is a great disturbance in the Ministry and it provides for the movement rather than the recruitment of permanent staff. For Article 53, we support the full repayment of all EEA debts, particularly those relating to self-employed, healthcare and patients. There is an amendment here. This ministerial amendment will be voted on if it is not incorporated into Article 53 as a whole. We note the following: we disagree on extortion, compulsory retention of part of the discounts due. It's a lot of money they've paid taxes for. The delegation of responsibility to pay the insurance funds from their own funds, if no liquidation is made by 30 June 2017, may lead to at least one part of the health or structure due and also patients being paid. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. Because, on the one hand, there is a lack of staff in the insurance funds and there is no timely handling and, on the other, there is a well-known poor financial situation that we are unable to pay at their own expense. In this article we shall vote'represents'. In Rule 56 - I said that, Minister - we are radically opposed to the grant of hotel subsidies. I think this article is a challenge. You need to get it back. You must pay the unemployed, not the hotel owners, because, as we have said, the contract cannot be extended to these workers already in need of the employer, because they are full of hotels and instead of the employer paying them for the unemployed. I would also like to refer to the ministerial amendments. Because we won't have any more time, I imagine, give me a minute, Mr. President. They are, to date, twelve amendments by ministerial. The amendment, with a general number 703 and a special 26, to exempt EOT's real estate from HICP, is another gift, which is made in the light of privatisation. We fundamentally disagree with this policy that characterises the people on the one hand and relieves the capital on the other. In Amendment No 713 and in Amendment No 30, which defines the delivery of supplementary staff to the welfare centres, we will vote 'yes', although we have reservations about the conditions laid down, 'the exceptional needs', as it says, and the prevention of expenditure from the budgets of the centres concerned. Who will decide that there are exceptional needs? If there is no cover, what will these workers and structures become? Also in Amendment No 717 and in Amendment No 34 we are voting 'no' because you are promoting partnership with the private sector. The prospects for adequacy of technical instruments in the EAW shall be removed. We also want to denounce this practice of the administration of the EMCDDA here, where it is trying to blackmail today, to terrorise the workers taking part in the mobilisations. We are therefore voting 'no' in this amendment. The amendment of a general number 718 and a special 35 provides for the extension of the expenditure on the movement of personnel of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps by the end of 2017. We shall vote 'yes' on the amendment. We note, however, that this should not be the reason for extending the payment of expenditure, because the burden of staff is high. The amendment by number 719 concerns all those workers who are seen with the governments' choices for the so-called 'working costs'. Mrs Christophilopoulou mentioned this earlier. I think that Mrs Christophilopoulou cannot speak about this issue. From now on, the convention of twenty-four months has been chosen by banning the renewal, as the amendment incorporates, and banning the conversion of contracts into an indefinite period. They are all those workers who were in hospitals: cleaners, cooking employees and so on. We shall vote 'yes'. We are, of course, calling on the workers to join the class movement for full and stable work with full rights. They will therefore be guaranteed only when they become unlimited with full rights. The amendment, with a general number 720 and a special number 37, concerns employment programmes in the State, which recycle unemployment and do not respond to the anxiety and nightmare of the unemployment of thousands of unemployed and young people. We are not voting for it, as we are usually doing with these programmes, because it is a tool to strengthen capital as a whole, but above all, to overthrow industrial relations, collective agreements and so on. Amendment No 721 by special number 38 relates to the regulation of late payments for unemployed persons to the former Occupied Territories and the suspension of payments of loans to the Occupied Territories from the unemployed. We shall vote 'yes' in this amendment, but we note that the arrangements do not respond to the bad position of all these workers from unemployment, wage cuts, tax cuts and so on. We have tabled a specific amendment, but also a proposal for a law, for those workers who have been borrowed by the OSCE - the government has not accepted it - where we are talking about the removal of capital. In Amendment No 722/19 on the IKA's integrated information system for the extension of the contract, we are voting 'at present' because the entire integrated information system has become the bridge between Arta and I do not know, of course, what the contract contains. It is not mentioned, there is no one in the amendment tabled. In Amendment No 723/40, if Article 53 is not incorporated, we shall vote 'yes', if we are incorporated we shall be in 'the present'. In Amendment No 724/41 we are voting 'yes' for the continuation of the work of workers at 'Help at Home', who have been living with uncertainty since the start of the programme. We want to remind you here and what SYRIZA's position was when it was a Dedicated Opposition, for all these workers, for this 'Help at Home' programme. You have forgotten everything, and of course these workers live with all this anxiety and uncertainty. Amendment No 725/42 which you tabled today, Minister, is also a provocative amendment. In the case of an employer's grant, the limitations of four hundred fifty-day unemployment benefits are not applicable for four years. So those who give the check to the employer, he will be subsidised for as long as he is concerned with the worker. So, in this case, while the unemployed are confined to four hundred and fifty allowances over four years, you do not abolish it for the unemployed, you are abolishing it when the employer is being subsidized. There is, of course, the amendment you will bring about on taxation, tax incentives and other incentives for the social economy, to which we shall of course vote 'no'. We shall of course also see the amendment. There is also the amendment from the JRC, which we have tabled to abolish the single fuel tax, as well as VAT, on heating oil. You haven't said what you're going to do with her. We say it again: make it acceptable. The winter comes, which will be heavy for a lot of people in all of Greece. Here you get a seat, and they need to get in position and all the other parties what they say about heating oil.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, there are thirty-five speakers, plus the other special speakers, plus the parliamentary representatives, plus the four ministers who have asked to speak. We must be very time-consuming. Mr Katsotis spoke very much, but because he has not given another speaker the Communist Party of Greece within the remaining thirty-five, it was clear that he had to be given a great deal of opportunity to develop the views of the JRC, and that was why he had much more time. We're not going that way, though. The eight minutes from now on will be kept or at most left for a minute at the specified time. Mr Konstantinos Barriotas, a special speaker from Potami, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to be consistent, after all, we have talked about the bill too many times in five days, special speakers. I think we don't have much to talk about the first chapter of the bill. Despite individual reservations, we will vote on most of the articles. Many changes have been incorporated. There has been a fertile process, which we have emphasised many times by all the wings of Parliament. Very quickly, I will tell you the two main reservations left. It is the exact way of disposing of the property - and Mrs Christophilopoulou said so, namely the way in which they will be granted, the criteria and the method which I think should be made clearer - and the persistence of the programming contracts which, in our view, must be transparent competitive procedures everywhere, in all the relationships between the COMCOM and the public and the wider public sector, precisely in order to preserve the COMCOMs from scandals, scandals and bad practices of the past. I have argued many times and in many ways because we do not vote for special secretariats. I have said a lot about the special secretariat of the COMIPs. One could enter the process of discussing the Roma, but there are two things. One is we have said many times that this process is barren and this administrative model of creating continuous administrative structures in which parties are leading unqualified executives. The other one that is really annoying is the yesterday's position of Mrs Fotio, who did not argue about the need for the special secretariat. Europe requires a single organisation or a single service, it is not a special secretariat. Others there are ministries, some other kind of service. The dilemmatic, however, logic of the style "tell us whether you are in favour of the Roma or not" at some point must stop. She's really annoying. As soon as Mr. Katrougalos slided into the "Germancholia" yesterday, after Mr. Mitsotakis spoke, and immediately after Mrs. Fotou slipped into the dilemmas "be white or black". We are with the Roma, we believe that everything needs to be done to bring the accession procedures forward, to help them and to strengthen them. We do not think, however, that the special secretariat, namely the appointment of another party official without a qualified procedure and a choice, helps anyone, but perpetuates the maliciousness of both Roma and Greek public. That is why we will vote against. The second part of the bill 'we give property', with Article 51, may have been confused - and the rain of amendments may well, unfortunately, be entitled 'I grant real estate, I share money and I make appointments. I appointing, appointing, appointing.’ From now on, I'll talk about the next three or four minutes about it. Is Article 52 of the Minister's renting and concession of immovable property? Mrs Antonopoulou, since Mrs Fotio and Mr Katrugalos do not feel the need to explain exactly what that is, at some point you have to tell us what the logic behind it is. This is the fifth time I have asked and I note that this seems to be scandalous and I have a small reservation that may not be. But making the duck and passing an article that is specific and not talking about it is in any way suspicious and certainly not healthy. I may be mistaken, however, for the Minister, Mr Manda, to be able to transfer real estate to the social security institutions without the agreement of the funds' boards at first seems curious. No one's talking about that. We're talking about real estate. Someone "littles" IKA's properties at the University and in St. Constantine, I say. Is that true? Am I wrong? Is there a need? Nobody's talking? How's it going to happen? We've been waiting since the first day. Let us move a little on the amendments, which are rain. First comment: positive and negative, necessary and questionable, ambiguous. It's about a billion-dollar impact on the state budget. I am not saying 'cost'. Impact. It is not possible to have a package of amendments that have an impact on the budget, public costs, without any debate, under the table. I have no objections, many of them we are voting on, they seem necessary, they seem positive. Mercy! One which is quite problematic is the EKRD. We are, first of all, in agreement to the payment of the time-limits. These debts recorded by the EKP, although there are some. One could point out that individuals are being paid and paid without a discount. There's no clawback here, as it does to others. We pay it all, and some of it's not that clean. There are'square' stories in the Cyclades, which go and recycle years and wait to get thousands of euros and take them with this amendment. In any case, it is important to end the time-lag and stop. There's a major issue. We are in favour of being able outsourcing, as it is said, to get a private man to work where he needs to, when he needs to, and under conditions. The article introduces the possibility - and rightly - but it has neither contract nor mechanism nor tender nor transparency or cost. I would like to go a little further on this, and I should like to make the trade unionists of the EKAB who are in the House building. If the private person can make the Aerospace from Mykonos with a small plane, which is cheaper than the c -130 to prefer the small plane. But let's know when we need it, by what process we hired him, how much money he'll get, by classic open procedures. Paragraph (c) says nothing. He says that there is a contract with the signature of the Minister. With his friend, with someone else, in a competitive procedure, at a fee per mile per kilometre per nautical mile? How? I think it's good for the third and the second to retire and retreat. It is also incomprehensible that the fourth, which makes an income for EKP-0.86% which I do not know how it came out, has this interest in making an account, he says, a sum that the EKP will use for aerospace. Aren't they paid per case? Are they not compensated by the funds? Are they not paid according to the cost of the aerospace? Do we have a pigeon we share? As formulated, in combination with the third, it creates wicked thoughts. I'll be done in a minute with this public cleaners ring. We've got to see you. Mr. Paulakis is particularly inventive. We started from the hospital cleaners and after seven, eight failed legal efforts on the knee, on the one hand they did not get permission, on the other they couldn't get paid, on the other hand, the Third Council of State said'serve, they don't do', which, apart from raising issues of constitutionality, as Mrs Christophilopoulou pointed out earlier, is also the biggest rousphetti that has been done in the Greek public for years. It means that seven to eight thousand contractors with fixed-term contracts will be hanged by the Ministries and Ministers for the next five to six years, waiting every time and begging for the extension of their contract to cojabasism, not even reminiscent of pre-temporary periods. They remind me of deligenism and Klathmonos Square. It's really disgraceful for a left-wing government. I respect the ideological coma, which I consider to be a coma against companies, but there are procedures, permanent procedures, or if you can't do anything else. This is an unacceptable rumphetti that creates new conditions in the public, reminiscent of old times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr Barriotta. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to welcome positively the acceptance of this bill from almost all of Parliament's parties, with some exceptions. It is a positive step. It is also very positive that many amendments have been accepted, I believe in a positive direction. I could mention them one by one. However, I would like to dwell on an amendment, with all due respect for both trade unionism and the trade unions in the EKA in particular. I heard their arguments and because I like to look at them face to face, I want to remind them of the following. Firstly, I have heard that there is the Minister's intention to privatise the EAW. I would like to remind them that this provision has existed since 1999. It was simply activated selectively by the then governments and never the EAW will be privatised for a simple reason. We all know that too many ambulances are private. But this government has never certified or recognised these ambulances to be able to do the work of the EMCDDA. I am of the opinion that the EAW is doing its job very well, with one difference. 50% - and they themselves admit it - of the services of the EMCDDA is currently being cancerd. In other words, they cannot respond and as you know the EAW is for very urgent cases. What is the problem when the EPC board proposes and of course has the approval of a private minister, let's say, ambulance, whether this is in Gadus or I don't know where else, at the end of the world. In no case does this mean privatization of the EAW. I'm telling you because I saw a mass reaction, which I respect. But I have a different point of view. I also heard that a hundred ambulances can be repaired quickly with 200 or 300 thousand euros. I do not consider the big amount, but I want to remind friends trade unionists, with all due respect that these ambulances have done a million kilometres each. The problem will be solved by the contest. I heard the other argument that the contest could take place in eight months. You know very well that he can only with three objections will go two and three years back. The state can't sit with its hands crossed. The provision that passes under no circumstances puts individuals in the EAW. Let them study it better. I'm saying that because I want to look them in the eye. However, I would like to stand still: because topicality is running and I do not intend to use all year round, it has made a very positive impression to me because the glass is not half full, and not half empty, that the President of the Parliament in this very important Conference of Presidents has proposed to the members of the PSE and all the parties, no-one apart, have expressed sympathy and confirmation of the faces proposed by the President of Parliament. This is a very positive step for me and shows that there is no intention of a new conflict. There are reservations I do not accept. We, as Independent Greeks, said that the PSE should now be formed. We have distinguished the two things. There is another thing about the judicial authority that respects it and respects its decision and another thing about the legislative authority, that is, what the Conference of Presidents does. I would like to go further and say this: I believe that the PSE will soon be formed. The good attitude I have seen and the differences which Mr Dendias has made from the tough line of his party are, in my opinion, encouraging that something is changing in the New Democracy. Can't have this rupture line pulling forever. It can't be. It's a dead end. We all know that there are other voices in the New Democracy. My personal view, which does not mean that you must share it, is that a solution will soon be found. Finally, I want to say that democracy has no dead ends. I would also like to remind you, because some people have gone too far, that sometimes yes, there are opposing judgments of the Supreme Court. I've picked them up and it's about fifteen. I don't want to read them, but I have them here. And what happened? We respect justice, but the government is moving on. I am convinced that justice can well coexist, and I am one of those who have said that when the revision of the Constitution takes place, Article 90 should give more independence to justice, in accordance with the proposal made in relentless Sotiris Bayas. I'm one of them, and I'm still going to believe it, and I'm going to fight for it. On the other hand, the government is moving forward and must move on. I would point out again the positive climate that existed, which devastated all Cassandras, that the government is going to put its own people, etc. If you look for one, one of the proposed names by the President of Parliament you will see that of all those who were present - and I mean it and I am pleased about it - no one questioned the credibility, dignity, inadmissibility and exactly what the President of Parliament proposed. I have no more to say. Of course, we are voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u158	Thank you. The special employer of the Association of Central Banks, Mr. Theodora Megalo-Economist, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the day before yesterday in Parliament was quite interesting. I think that there is nothing more important than the dialogue we can do to reach a central idea and to find a concrete link. For our part, however, as a Centro Association, we always defend the dialectical process and believe that this will bring us closer together. This bill is offered to have an exchange of views. We have also talked to the operators, and we believe that social cooperatives are a form of companies that seek to combine profits with the social offer. I think that the concept of COMIPs is quite innovative and we reward it. While the bill, Minister, is on the right lines, I have to make some comments, such as, for example, in Article 11, I agree with the setting up of a National Committee on Social Solidarity. However, it is precisely this national committee that will be composed of representatives of all major players. I consider it necessary to upgrade its role, i.e. it could have more decisive responsibilities on specific issues and not just to express an opinion, which the state institutions often ignore. In Article 2(9), concerning the definition of specific groups, the category of illiteracy could also be added. I think the Roma are most illiterate and because of illiteracy they cannot join jobs as well, and this is causing them to be inconsistent. As far as these groups are concerned, I have at least asked you to consider 30% - what the EEC is giving us as a minimum - is a little more and to increase it. I'm asking for 40%. I will be pleased to reach at least 30%, to go to 35%, so that these Roma groups can join and give them a job. In relation to the role of the Workers' Association in Article 25, I would like to make a special reference. We should pay particular attention to this new legal form that aims to cut back on the way we understand cooperatives. The explanatory statement says that the legal scheme of the Workers' Cooperative aims to use workers for the transfer of bankrupt private enterprises. But this project should somehow be carried out very organised and should be accompanied by a real restructuring of the existing legislative framework and, of course, amendments to the bankruptcy code. In other words, if the working of the Workers' Association is to be orderly, it must not lead to long-term, long-term unnecessarily delays and bureaucratic procedures. Transferring the bankruptcy or bankruptcy proceedings may become degraded, so the state must help them to make this process as quickly as possible. At least a great deal of processing must be done in the Banking Code to join them. As regards the old Article 26 and now 27, entitled 'Relations with the Workers' Association', with the legislative improvement you made yesterday, Minister, you completely deleted paragraph 8. Indeed, the article was contradictory and could not remain as it was. But here too, there are still issues. It remains completely unregulated to be able to obtain over-working members of the Workers' Association for projects to be financed by the Treasury. There is no clarification there. They may be working in the morning and super-laboratively to get other projects. I consider this to be important and, if there is no longer any restriction, it is very easy to lead to intertwined relationships with the public and to waste public money. I therefore believe that this regulation is necessary. Make it clear they won't have the right. You should report it. I want to make a brief reference to the effort you are making through the EEAS to pay off the private individuals, to whom you owe EUR 450 million by 2012. These debts must be settled, because private or medical professions cannot support the EEA by putting their own money. We know it's a big debt. I said yesterday that the EEAY should clarify the contracts it makes them. He can't come back and make them cut. It is therefore a little ambiguous. In the provision on the real estate of social security providers: I think it is good to try to use real estate, such as the RESERIA, which is still closed. The use of these real estates, which now belong to the insurance funds, must be made of them. We must, however, have a certificate from a certified valuer in rental and price, so that we do not give a very low price. We must also look at the real value of the surrounding area as a rent or as a value. We don't want to take the properties because they're unexploited and sell them. We need to make use of them. I would also like to disagree with his tactics that last-minute amendments are coming. This bill was several days in the committee responsible. It is unreasonable that the ministers wait on the last day of the debate and plenary to bring amendments, which we as parliamentarians cannot study and use properly. You may be right, but we are not given time to make use of it and to say whether it is right or wrong. On Amendment No 724 on the reference to the Home Help Programme, which is extremely necessary for our fellow citizens, I think it is right. This is a difficult time and it must continue. I also see the amendment that came last night to exclude the beneficiaries of a cheque, reintegrating into the labour market by restrictive provisions, which ultimately excluded them from receiving the benefit later. In any case, the Central Association and I, of course, are in favour of the arrangements that lead to the relief of the unemployed. However, the reservation in the amendment lies in the fact that the State General Accounting Office has not given us any information as to how much it will cost. I think it is necessary to have concrete information on how much this amendment will cost, although it creates jobs and we agree on that. But we also have the right to know how much it costs. That we're in agreement, I'm not questioning it. I would like to say that at the end of the two special secretariats, which I referred to yesterday, you promised us, Mr Minister, that people already in the public will also be exploited if they are capable of these positions. Then you'll go ahead, wanting to limit the cost. We hope you get to the good result. I'll agree with that. In conclusion, I would like to say that the vote of today's bill is to give full support to the social cooperatives, so that they can go through the theory in practice, open new jobs, change the everyday life of the Greek and Greek and finally give our country an impetus so that it can come out of the gull. We hope you can make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of special speakers has been closed. She has asked and will be given the floor by my colleague, Alexa Papariga, from the Communist Party of Greece. Before I give the floor, I want to make a correction. The list of speakers in the Bureau did not mention the name of my colleague, Mr Constantine Steerios, from the Communist Party of Greece, which is eighth in a row. I am referring to this as a correction. My colleague will speak in his turn. It was wrong before the list was delivered. Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, the unequivocal 'no' of ours in this bill is not due to the fact that we consider the bill from the point of view of socialism to communism, nor, of course, have we had any demands from the government on such issues, nor do we believe in omens socialist and socialist islands in the context of capitalism. These ideological fathers of SYRIZA called them many years ago. Now they don't even support them in words. Our opposition is for this reason: having taken the criterion, the limit of poverty at the bottom - literally at the bottom - you bring a bill to deal with the acute problems of poverty, unemployment and the 'humanist crisis', as you say. Not even elementaryly responds to these needs, nor in a defensive way. You cannot blame us for not having repeatedly put forward specific demands in this House to address the basic needs of the poor and on your basis, but also on the basis of the real criterion of poverty, which you have of course voted against. We do not care about poverty, or as you call it the 'humanist crisis', for your own purposes. We are voting against this bill because it is an extremely dangerous trap, politically and ideologically and economically, at the expense of people, who are literally drowned and caught by their hair. This bill you bring is absolutely part of the government's memorandum policy, the European Union's memorandum choices, to use the terms you are using. It is, however, fully integrated into policies of the European Union, the OECD and other international capitalist transnational organisations before the crisis. It is not about a forced and compulsory choice in the context of the crisis. You even show the social economy as a sector which is something different from the market economy, from the capitalist market, from capitalist companies. I must tell you that everything that is rotten, which is the most extreme thing in the capitalist economy, will be reproduced in an even more uncontrolled way in the social economy, everything: profitability, Rusphetology, corruption, the creation of modern networks for the acquisition of conscience, where the social economy sector has very great potential. We say this not as a provision, but as a generalisation of experience because this sector has been built in some countries for a while. It is no coincidence that it is voted for by all the parties in the House, who voted for the third memorandum. It's not at all, but at all. It's in that logic. Because I told you before that we are not judging this bill from the point of view of socialism and communism, it is clear that this does not mean that we will give you a few places here in this House. I do not know if in SYRIZA there are any'snakes' that are circulated and reproduced or are choices made by the Members themselves. But 'hey, Argi!'. What about Paris's Komuna was associated with the social economy, what about the fight against hunger and the harvest in the Occupation from EAM and ELAS! What does this have to do with the bill you bring, which is fully integrated into the policy of the Commission and the Commission of the European Communities? What does Parisian Communa have to do with an early and immature revolution armed to the conditions of the French-Russian war? What does it have to do with EAM and ELAS, with the armed national liberation struggle, when the capitalist economy was smacked, when the urban state could not function, the occupying government did not succeed and, after all, the armed people were after the black marketers and occupied warehouses and sold food. Do they have anything to do with what you're doing? In any case, and a little respect, even a museum, let us say so in history. It's a challenge. We challenge ourselves when we hear these things. And we have never invoked the history in which the Communist Party of Greece played its leading role to counteract a current bill. Is there some respect lost, some count? Excuse me, but volunteering will also benefit from social democracy. Voluntaryism will be a little paid, labour relations will be even more miserable, and they will also be a pilot for private businesses, especially. Businesses have not only penetrated in this area of the so-called humanitarian crisis, but they will infiltrate even more and will refute what it has created - let us say - the local initiative, the individual initiative. This has been done in other countries, and I will make it quite clear below. Most of all, you're going to use poverty, volunteers, hunger-payers. You're going to use them just like a prevention shield so that trade unions don't exist in this space. This goes without saying, since they are entrepreneurs, since they are self-employed, since they are even self-managed by companies. Locality is no random choice at all. And from this point of view it's very rich. I, too, would ask the Members, in particular, of the SYRIZA, to study - because I know they are attracted to such things - the experience of Latin America between 2001 and 2008, 2009, 2010, because I think these have been erased in recent years. The OECD since 1998 has been working on this social economy policy. Such forms - including the bill - were brought to Ecuador, Bolivia, Brazil and Argentina. When did they get shredded? When there had been uprisings of the indigenous populations and those who did not have lots, those who were poor in the district of the large urban centers. They were given land, let them make productive small businesses self-managed, church communities entered, schools, hospitals, doctors. Where are these? Then, of course, these big businesses were raided, because that's also a profit. It may immediately gain ideological political gain, because they are taking people out and, let's say, in a state of rest that something will succeed or if you want in a first phase may, for example, have not tried or eat the potato. Where are all these businesses? In 2011, the European Parliament - the people's body, let us say, the European Union - takes a decision and says that the social economy will escape some of the state benefits. It's a European Parliament decision. Do not tell me that today's European Parliament is more progressive than the previous one. The OECD clearly says that the social economy serves this: the State regulates social policy rather than making social benefits. The last Davos that took place dealt with the social economy, the International Monetary Fund. These are primarily areas where profitability is also economic. It will be - let me make a comparison, mutatis mutandis - that is to say the following: businesses will enter as sponsors. They'll also get motives along the way. It's gonna be kind of like Skoda Xanthi that when he doesn't care about them, they're going to leave and become a stylish Xanthi. That's what's gonna happen. In the European Union - I think it was also mentioned by a previous Member of the Communist Party of Greece, but I too would like to repeat it - what is on the list of social companies? An 'MONTRAGON' operation - if I say it well - in the Basque Country with eighty-five thousand workers and a turnover of EUR 15 billion in 2009. It started as a confederation of working cooperatives, which came from a craftsman in the social economy of heating kinds. Another rural cooperative in Ireland has ten thousand members, a turnover of 693 million euros and a profit of 19 million euros. A building partnership in Great Britain has £200 billion capital, nineteen thousand employees and £495 million income. Swedish consumer co-operative - these are elements of the European Union - having 3.1 million members, in 2008 it came to control 55% of the cooperative retail trade in Sweden, which in turn accounts for 21.4% of the total food retail trade. The UK 'tada' consumer cooperative has four and a half million members, one hundred twenty-three thousand employees, four thousand three hundred shops, nine.5 billion turnover and eleven million profits. Are these self-managed local units, ASAP, as they are called? These are monopolies! These didn't come out of these small units. These were absorbed, ushered or put into space after dissolving these groups. If it had been done that way, we'd have been saved. That is, if the people below take the economy and control it, and the unemployed, the poor, become an entrepreneur. That's what you're going through. One is the reduction of social benefits and the other is the creation of a new literally developed area of consciousness, radicalisation prevention, an area where party rupturetology, bracelet and corruption will be angered. He'll just be downstairs. After all, this shows the history of cooperatives. They were defensive at first. How did they evolve? There is no place of independence, neutral and autonomous outside the market economy. I conclude by saying that all the parties in the House are voting for it with their comments, while you are stabbing for television licences and for which businessman to enter or come out. Here goes well and well: improvements, amendments and something better, precisely because you know that this can be an instrument to stop the people claiming free education, health, stable work, normal human wages, etc. You may temporarily make fun of a world. But you know that if a government party once made fun of for a 20-year period, now it's not that easy. The time has been shortened when mockery can be fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates, thirty three students and apprentices and two educational attendants from the first section of the Demenesi High School of Achaea. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I would like the floor to defend two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u164	Let us see how the debate is going to turn out and come to an agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not yet entered the list of speakers, now we are entering. There are thirty-six colleagues, therefore, together with the Ministers' contributions, both to the amendments and to the legislative improvements, the meeting will be too late. That is why the Bureau is making a proposal. To limit the speaking time from eight to six minutes and to do so now, before the list begins, so that there is no favorable and no-court Members. I think you agree, so that we can have some comfort for everyone to get ahead, because I very much fear that the last ten speakers may not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u165	This has become a regime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u166	I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u167	Unfortunately, this has become a regime. We've been all over the place for hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Comrade, you're right. There is a total responsibility of the Bureau, which is so tolerant of a time violation, but also of the fact that no Member is now confined to his time. We all need to have a connection with reality. Mr. Polakis, Mr. Petropoulos will now speak, who had asked for the floor earlier. That's why I told you to wait. Minister, Mr Petropoulou, please very carefully in time, so that we can be within the limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, I would like to put forward a legal improvement in Article 51 concerning the possibility of work already being carried out by workers in social security institutions, engineers, who often instead of doing the job, are moving towards a procedure of delegation outside, while we have people who can work and we need to save costs. That is why we have added and stated explicitly that ‘without additional remuneration, operators may entrust the preparation of technical specifications, studies and tendering documents to a mechanical IP or TE serving the social security institution’. And this, after some criticism that has been expressed that we can favour some, get more money. The provision ‘without additional remuneration’ is explicitly inserted. More generally, this provision also has a further legislative improvement. The provision in paragraph 1 (b) of paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the following: We have, in general, made the possibility of providing services of this kind by the institution and exceptionally by the Management of Investment Funds for Insurance, the well-known GAAP. This is faced with a problem of bureaucracy, which actually led all actors to never do any work. I also saw this as the commander of the OSCE. Only the IKA could do this job. Everyone else expected bureaucratic formalities and procedures that led to the result to be the property in a dramatic situation. That is why I am tabling this legislative improvement. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] TAKE SEL 213-214
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr Secretary, and for your attention in time. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. I am here to defend two amendments. The first thing I will say right now, with a general number of 723 and a specialist 40, is to add to Article 53, which regulates the due debts of social security institutions, which the EEAS had undertaken for before 2012 as a categorical successor. We also add the settlement concerning the outstanding debts of the EEAS after 2012 and up to 30-4-2016. With this arrangement we allow, by means of a corresponding procedure that will also be followed for debts before 2012, to pay off all the money due by withholding 10% of the payment to its providers and in some cases, for some providers, the total debt, which, for reasons of procedural, bureaucratic, etc., were not attributed in the years 2013 and 2014. Payment through the due schedule has three huge advantages. First, it gives warm money to the market. It is estimated that by the regulation contained in Article 53 and by the regulation added here, around EUR 800-900 million will be placed on the market. And the opportunity to do this is given. The second is that the EEAY will be able to remove the weights and collect from this year's use, i.e. from this year's payments it has to make to its providers, a very large part of the claw back that has accumulated since 2012, 2013, 2014, etc. and has not been netted. This will mean keeping a large part of claw back now, but without creating conditions of suffocation on the market. Because if you keep four or five months and don't pay the providers, in fact, some small ones will shut them down. By giving the oldest money, however, warm money, through the due schedule, you can make the reservation from this year’s use. And the third and most important advantage is that the current insurance contributions that enter the EEA, since this year, from the insurance funds, are going very well, as you know, Mr Petropoulou, and we will catch the 4 billion-dollar target, as we have contacted Mr Petropoulou, for the first time in the EOPY. In this way, money can be made available, based on our political choice and our class share - which Mr Andreas Xanthos also says - to hospitals to fund and strengthen hospital budgets. Let me remind you here - because some have a short memory - that for the first year since the establishment of the EOPYY has so far given public hospitals more than EUR 210 million real money. That is the first amendment. The second amendment is with a general number 717 and a special 34, and it has to do with the EAW. I shall also have to say a few things about mobilisation, which have informed me that it has been done, and about Mrs Christophilopoulou's speech before. I shall begin by referring to the amendment. What are we doing with this amendment? We prescribe the EAW with a sum of one year each year through EOPYY. We say that the EAW will take every year for the needs of its aerospace facilities - and which are for the insured of the EEAS or even uninsured - it is financed by 0.86% of the 1,402,000,000, which is health costs other than medicines. And this money, which is about EUR 12 million, will be given by the codes for hospitals and public health. Watch out now, we've been solving a problem that's been holding since 1980! There are unpaid periods to the Air Force still since the 1980s and the 1990s and the 2000s. Do you know how much these debts have accumulated? About 100 million are unpaid debts! And they come out and they squeeze our fingers! It's going crazy. It's taking time! In this way and with the retrospective power we give from 1-1 2012 - and from the time of the haircuts - 50m euros will be granted to the aviation sector against old debts. And every year, the EAW will be subsidized with 12 million euros, which will be for both aerospace and waterways and for the payment of doctors' subsidiary fees - which had never been regulated by those who swing our fingers - and that would also have money to renew his equipment. Because only the cost of aerospace reached 11 million, 12 million or all 13 million years. And the cost of the floating courses on the islands of the Cyclades, with the well-known caucasians from Naxos and other islands, reached 2 million euros. And what do we do right now? The use of fire-fighting helicopters for the sea, the base in Syros, which we are inaugurating on Monday and which reduces to half the time of the courses, the agreement with the Ministry of Trade Shipping and the use of two port waterways, which are being processed to make these first stops and we will pay only the fuel, not the hair and pentokills, which were charged to us by the various locals who had boats and took out a floating one year only from the EKE. That is what we are resolving, colleagues. We give 12 million a year to the EAW. We are practically giving him more than 50% of the budget he has had so far. And they go out and talk instead of saying, "Blessed"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u172	Minister, you're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u173	There was a charge that we - who? We are! - We're going to privatize the hallways. Here now, the opposition ostrich is blinding. And when you get blind, you spoon on the wall. The provision they refer to - paragraph 3 - was adopted in 1999! Mrs. Christophilopoulou, where was she then? At the C.C.E.L.O.? The order is 1999. We're not pulling her out so we can catch an emergency. If anything happens, all the helicopters are broken, we have no ports or some massive catastrophe, and we need more in there, we can make a contract with some companies so that this transfer can be made. And here I come to EKAV's union, which is where it was? Does the association of the EAW not know since 1999 in the EAW law that this provision exists? Now did the EKA rebels discover that we will privatize it? Well, let me get this straight. And where was the club, which breaks into its clothes for privatization, when the floating spaces through Naxos reached one and a half million euros a year and two million euros a year? When did they stand up against the assignment of privatization? Today's mobilisation was mobilisation not demanding and fighting against privatisation. It was "fighting" television show to justify the existence of not of the club, but of certain people - this thing is - who see that there will be no reason to exist soon. This is the very tough reality. We pay the EAW at EUR 12 million a year. We solve the problem of aerospace once and for all. We pay the debts that were in existence from the EKAB to the Air Force. And is the union coming out to tell us that we're privatising because we're keeping an emergency provision that's been in place since 1999 and they found it out yesterday?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u174	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u175	The plan of the left-hand parentheses by some media projected representatives of unions of presidents ISA, President of the WTO, President-in-Office of the EAEC, now leads to the self-arming of some people. That is the reality and whoever objects to explain them very thoroughly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u176	Thank you. Needless to say, the parliamentary representatives too limit their speech to six minutes. Do you hear that, Mr. Mada?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, I did not speak yesterday because I am going to speak in total today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u178	Okay, but you realize we all have to make an effort for time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u179	I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u180	Thank you. Mr Dimitrios Sevastakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a good thing that I speak after Mr. Polakis, and therefore I can talk about the Utopian socialism of Saint Simon, Furier and Owen, building a bridge with Mr. Synthraki's position yesterday, who said that the underlying ideological disobedience to the bill is the Utopian and evolutionary socialism of Bernstein. It is a bill that is a little unfair to the need to create a conflict when the bill itself does not contain it. In other words, too many executives, many speakers, had to leave to other issues, broaden the topics, and therefore obscure it, in my opinion, very important ideological substrate that has this bill. I won't be long, I'll be disciplined in every six minutes. Mr Kegeroglu even considered solidarity and social economy to be contradictory. Of course it isn't. The social organisation in capitalism can have characteristics of no solidarity, and we know it very well. I will stay at a point where I think he has been wronged by speeches, which are the transition to another occupational profile, which attempts to establish a cooperative relationship, and to give an answer to his own productive question. It enables the bill to be set up in the mid-term of this unlawed landscape, which was the cooperative movement and its decline, to build cooperative deeds, collaborative attempts by people in the grey area of production and in the grey zone of the economy, people who either have low chances, either bankrupt or impossible with social features that bring them back. I find the bill to be on the opposite side of a subsidised culture, where I trial merciful superstates in ATM every month as equivalent to the merciful mercilessness. The bill goes exactly backwards, trying to go. Of course, all the reservations expressed are based. It may be an attempt to expel, a collaborative attempt or another, such a step may be diverted. And we've seen it in the recent example of the cooperative movement, where they became bureaucratic organizations with scandals, abuses, overlapping or collapse of the cooperative demand. However, we must not be ahead of ourselves - suspicious. We must let this part of the low exchange develop that wants to replace the lack of replacement hammers. The crisis is obvious and the need to devise new institutions lies behind this crisis. Because the bill is trying to invent new institutions. And I think this will be a constant effort, if anyone wants to see that behind the dilemma 'capitalism or socialism' exists now. And in the face of now, in an undeclared and overwhelming now, one must respond and respond boldly, with imagination, with non-structural fantasy and, above all, to the social demand, the social need. I, therefore, think that this side, substituting a privileged culture and therefore a vindication of shallowness - because the privileged culture also sets up a vindication of shallowness - with self-indulgence, with clean relations, with a cooperative culture, which is small-scale and therefore can enter the small cracks of society, I think it is an ideological attempt that has its strength. These predictions, I think, contain the bill in its main trunk. Of course, it forms, composes the type of organization. He's trying to characterize, in addition to the recipients' profile or those who attempt, and to pre-economic the type of organisation. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] He is also trying to give an answer - unfortunately, I do not have the time to analyse it - Mr Barriots spoke a little bit earlier - about the Roma, about this undetermined social group, which, for reasons of cultural peculiarities, is not in the system, is not in the form of form, they are not using social goods in the way they can and can claim and help them to join the social continuum. I think, therefore, that these terms, this profile and this ideological specificity of the bill make it very productive and I am very glad that all the political forces are in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Theocharopoulos, from the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, the social economy that we are debating today really can serve social objectives, and that is why we expressed ourselves yesterday and said that we were positive in principle. There are, of course, reservations that have been raised today during the debate on the draft law. We must say that this ambitious project must be implemented within a clear framework of good and stable operation, with rules that will be respected by all participants. But all this also requires the culture to be cultivated. The dissemination and promotion of the model, so that it is not limited to a few examples. Is there a plan for that? The various representatives of ministries in the committees set up should each promote this model. Should this model be integrated into a holistic national strategy for growth and employment, when, of course, this holistic approach comes at some point? Because, as I will explain, there is a total absence of a national productive reconstruction plan for the country and a greater loser than that is from society. It is no longer a common place to claim that the crisis is not just deepening, but is being consolidated. He's getting the features of a permanent system. Because, unfortunately, the current government has no substantiated proposals, it has not been reformed in any policy area and it has degraded extremely critical issues. What has he done, for example, about the real problem of poverty? It is not the government's policy that strikes poverty, but the conditions that produce it are actually reproducible. We must aim to create a state of quality social services. The benefits do not solve the issue, of course, in the preliminary draft state budget - and this particular issue of social solidarity income - there are costs of EUR 760 million for 2017. In order to give the social income of solidarity for 2018, it will have to find 900m euros, which it does not have. What's he gonna do? Either he will not give it or take it from the poor, by means of indirect and direct taxes, to share it with the poor. This is, at best, called poverty recycling. New tax storm also comes for 2017, which will further magnify the "hole" of the insurance. Pensioners see cuts in income. In this situation we are discussing this bill and the amendments, where I will say a few things afterwards, and the insured are unable to respond to their insurance contributions. The risk of further increasing tax evasion and tax evasion and 'black' labour is now visible. The problems are unfortunately shifting over to the next generations. Transgenerational solidarity has been forgotten and, of course, is the report of the Parliament's Budget Office all these days, which it says in relation to the draft that is already being discussed? It simply says that we have a tax austerity, which leads nowhere. We have provision for a reduction in expenditure of just 3%, and 97% is an increase in revenue. In other words, we do not have reforms to rationalise expenditure - I am not talking about reductions in wages and pensions, as the neoliberal wings probably want, I am talking about rationalising expenditure - and as a result 97% is a substantial increase in revenue, through indirect and direct taxes. This is, of course, also characterised by the report by the Bureau of the Parliament's Budget Office not only as sufficiently optimistic, but also by the fact that it will not be achieved unless the necessary reforms are carried out. And, of course, it will have the final effect, as the report says, of reducing the own revenues from indirect and direct taxes themselves. Characteristics suggest that only Mexico seems to have maintained a primary surplus of more than 3.5% over a decade, while over 3% in Belgium and Finland alone. That is why the Democratic Reconciliation, which is also in Brussels these days, has tabled concrete proposals and we have said the specific issues and the reduction of primary surplus targets and the restructuring of public debt. If these are not promoted, then the European Union will not have the responsibilities it deserves. And, of course, the preliminary draft itself, as the Budget Office's report says, partly delivers its arguments. No development can be achieved and no development prospects can be achieved with these tax policies. You have tabled a series of amendments here today. We have just tabled amendments. I heard Mr. Polakis a moment ago. He's not here right now. I do not understand, however, either the style or the essence of what he has said. We had a notice a few days ago and complaints from workers about the dissolved ambulances from the hundreds of miles they have spent. They're on fire while they're carrying patients, they say the complaints. All over Attica, there's not a backup vehicle. This shows that instead of a social cohesion policy, we continue and have social analgesia. What did the recent head of the Ministry of Health respond to all this? Nothing! He came here and started shouting against those who claim outside the House. He didn't even discuss with them. It brings an amendment that can lead - beyond its sudden amendment - from the back door to privatisation, without transparency. And, of course, privatisation cannot start in the health sector, cannot start from here, they must start from elsewhere where they do not go, and reach a social health system, in a public health system that fulfils the conditions. Unfortunately, we saw him attack both on the opposition and on the workers and this attitude does not honour the government. In conclusion, because I have no more time and thank you for the tolerance, Mr President, I would just like to say something about the EPP amendment, because, unfortunately, within a very short period of time, another bill comes to amendments. We have also tabled an amendment for the sixth time, which we have not only tabled this time, but it is intergroup and it is also signed by Members of the Democratic Integration and the River and the Association of Centres and New Democracy and which wants to regulate the question of ELGA. So we say this: it has no financial costs getting into the exceptions that have been introduced and the research institutions and various other organisations, which have no such cost. Farmers expect estimates to be made and to receive compensation. Its failure to accept it at the moment by the government on a matter which is afflicting farmers, is afflicting the farmers, afflicting the ELGA, cannot be understood. What we are asking for is the inclusion of the ELGA in the exceptions to paragraph 2 of Article 2 of L.4336/2015, as is for other organisations, as travel costs not only are not borne by the State but also by the farmers' insurance contributions. We cannot understand why this is not acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. My colleague, Eleni Stamatakis, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are debating, voting and making law is a principle of greater involvement by citizens in production and the economy. The social and solidarity economy is a third sector of the economy alongside the public and private sectors. It includes organisations such as professional, rural, forest cooperatives, non-profit organisations and social enterprises. Because of the distorting policies which prevailed in the 1990s, which approached these structures as complements to the State or the market, this sector is misunderstood in Greece. In the years of the crisis, however, with the integration of solidarity into everyday political practice in conjunction with the tens of new cooperative ventures, the need for a third sector of economic activity has come back dynamically in a new framework of economic activities based on democratic, equal, cooperative, and ecological relations between production, distribution, consumption and reinvestment. This is the area of the social and solidarity economy and we must formulate the legal framework that will serve its need and actively support its implementation. In Europe, the United States, Latin America and Canada, thousands of such businesses operate, which contribute to some of these countries about 10% of GDP. In Greece, the equivalent rate does not exceed 1%. There is therefore a huge margin for developing this sector of economy. There is an experience of the solidarity structures, which have come to respond to the deterioration of living conditions, and there is an experience in the initiatives of cooperative ventures, which have been developed usually with a view to biopolitics and the recovery of lost jobs, such as workers' work at the BIO and at the CF. N.B. In Piraeus, solidarity has been developed since the early years of the crisis in health, education and food, in an effort to meet the basic needs of the unemployed, the apes, the homeless and the victims of the humanitarian crisis. Since 2012 the movement for the disposal of products without intermediaries has been developed, the actions of which are close, on the one hand, to a very large part of society, enabling it to find cheaper and quality products and, on the other, to find some of the producers that were unable to access the market. This action and this movement must also be supported by legal and legal coverage so that there can be more development. Social and solidarity economics is a powerful economic organisation, but also a claim to create production structures or services accessible to all citizens, regardless of the economic situation, nationality, religion or sex, by proposing alternative models of production and consumption in which all citizens and residents of the country participate, by promoting participatory and democratic processes in economic and social relations. This law brings some very important areas, in addition to strengthening the role of social solidarity as an economic sector parallel to capitalist production and consumption. Social enterprises are already areas of integration into social and economic life for vulnerable groups of the population, i.e. for people with psychosocial problems, LEIs, prisoners, detained and minor offenders. Recently, it has also been done under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice with works of prisoners and we have seen that, through the work carried out in these prison workshops, people are given specialty who will be able to make use of it and, if there are motives and assistance, to cooperate in order to gain access to the labour market. Also, the incision under this law allows special groups, victims of domestic violence, long-term unemployed, 50-year-olds, refugees, asylum seekers, Roma, to cover and gain access to the labour market and education. With the Social Solidarity Fund which is being established, there is a possibility for all these social actors to be supported in order to have access to a financial level which they did not have through the banking system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm done. It is therefore a very important moment for our country, which is being imposed on us by reality, on the one hand, by a suffocating economic situation and a framework of labour rights that are being persecuted every day on the other, on the other, by a society that regains its collective life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Economou, you're in line, but Mrs. Fotou has asked to take the floor now. If you want, he can talk after you or now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u187	Let's talk now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u188	Good. The Minister, Mrs. Fotou, has the floor, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. I won't be long. I just want to support a few amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u190	Because you're going to talk about both the bill and the amendments, should I give you eight minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u191	All together? We'd better do that in two instalments. Then let Mr. Economou speak, and then I'll talk again. Now I just want to talk about the amendments. As far as Amendment No 724/41 is concerned, I would like to say that this is an amendment which has two legs. Its first part concerns the possibility that regions may exceptionally grant aid by the end of the year, i.e. by the end of 1916, social care providers who are registered with the Ministry of Welfare and who have already been financed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. In other words, it enables them to finance them further, since the regions have stated that they have reserves from own resources, up to 20% of the expenditure already incurred by the Ministry. That's the first. In the same amendment number there is the second issue, which is 'Help at Home'. The "Help at Home" Programme which, as you know, has been running for many years is extremely important. We are giving an extension of up to 31-12-2017, with this amendment, and the programme and all fixed-term contracts of qualified staff. This is a cost of EUR 62.5 million, which we have guaranteed for this year, as I said up to 31-12-2017. Actually, it's more than a year ago. That was the second. The other amendment, Mr President, is the general number 713 and special 30, which states that the term of office of auxiliary staff is extended to the Social Welfare Centres. The extension is up to 30-9-2017. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Vassilios Economou from New Democracy has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, the motion for a resolution tabled by the Third Memorandum sets out the political fate of those who have proposed it and voted for it, perpetuating the vicious and deadlocked commemorative circle of the country. The historical precedent really is a useful guide and a useful counsellor for their own destiny, which I think is indifferent to the entire Greek people, that is, if politically the protagonists of this deception will have a fair end, that is, depending on the end of the deadlocks they have brought to the country. What really matters is the collapse of the deceiving or illusions of the antimony fencing that has been tested and which is coming today in a way of revealing to everyone, protagonists and co-operators. I have enjoyed the cords of the Deputy Minister of Health with regard to those who, the previous time, waited for them as midships. That's why at least I didn't. But the drama of the protagonists is unfortunately being loaded by the Greek people. It's really unpleasant to monitor the deadlocks of Mr. Tsipras and his team, in front of the political crossroads he has reached. All the accumulation of the political problems they have brought these two years create great dilemmas. So, how convincing does the debate on settlement and debt write about the other half of the hill and say the first half? In other words, they are approaching the Greek people again as a polo and they are tasing a write-down of debt, a new heroic negotiation, a new debate, where some people, in a shredded way, come and say that the write-off of the debt, as well as the quantitative relaxation, is the new Eden that we all expect. Of course, they have not explained to the Greek people what the other side of the hill is, its dark part. What is it? The fact that the write-down of debt is accompanied by new, huge, difficult, unbearable and socially unscrupulous burdens and measures for the Greek people. That's not what Mr. Tsipras and his team say. And you will tell me: 'But do you not pay attention to an important piece of legislation which even enjoys the support of opposition?' I really consider today's minor incident in the face of the drama that the Greek people will be going through in the next period. It will be a big political drama of your own, because you will not even be saved by these few flashes of yours and efforts to trick the Greek people. The social economy is not the golden reserve that will save the country. It's nothing. What you will be invited to answer is as follows. Already making the climate. The leaks from Maximus on early elections starred by Mr. Poppa have been hazing, they're very entertaining. They prove and demonstrate, however, your great deadlock, not of SYRIZA's average MP, but of the leading group that, as it sets up, will sleep. Because the lies really have short feet. So, we're going to the markets? The third memorial goes straight. It's not made. It's not complete. With your policies and what you do, it can't be done. Mr Katrugalos, who is missing today, enthusiastically sends to some pensioners the justification for the "account" of supplementary pension cut with the money of the Greek people, the ELTAs. It does not send to the pensioners of the ESS, the low pensioners, who are cut by the ESS. It does not send all pensioners who cut 2% off from the main pensions for contributions to the EEAS and 6% from the subsidiary. It does not send the six hundred thousand for widow's pensions that cut 20%, or for disability pensions of three hundred thousand right-holders that cut them down around 20%. That is to say, the protagonist of crimes against retired people - and this is a lasting attempt to get out of the market, that is to say, to implement the third memorandum, which he and his group have brought into that country - is hiding behind minor social economy legislation. He will not be deceived and no one will be fooled. It should give reason, because with the money of the Greek people, from the ELTAs, it sends letters and makes party propaganda of the old type. He should give a reason for what he is preparing and how he plans his next steps, since the outlet scenario on the markets does not exist. I would say to you that the fourth memorandum, namely the settlement of debt as a slogan of the slogan you have thrown into the polo, namely, believing that the people will again be caught foolish, I do not see how it can function, if you do not explain how the cost of this arrangement is. I suspect that the next period will be time for you to ask for a consensual hand in order to have a national effort to resolve the debt problem - I will not be surprised to see any such proposals here from the Step of the House from Mr Tsipras to the other democratic forces, so that we can all go together to achieve this new national objective - but I do not know who intends to give help to the dramatic new reductions in pensions and wages, which mean a fourth memorandum to which you are driving with mathematical accuracy in the country. In conclusion, Mr President - and I thank you for your tolerance - the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour, in addition to the good social economy, must explain what will do with the great problem of unemployment and those who are heard in the Ministry of Labour through civilisations that are shattered by the Ministry. The Minister, who is missing now, should explain, but the messages will come to her, because she has made the OAED a bank. Why are there 500,000 000 people in the NATIONAL BANK and they are not going to be able to deal with the unemployment problem and open thousands of new jobs? Why does it continue in the deadlock of social benefit programmes and does it not open up entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Economou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u195	I'm hanging up. It should explain all the dislocations and the dark and 'grey zones' that are beginning to emerge from the Ministry in how and how to get acquainted with the Greek people and whether or not complaints are found. We, many Members of the New Democracy, are asking a question today. We hope that the Minister will respond to parliamentary scrutiny, because our questions are not usually answered when matters are critical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, too. Mr Igoumenides from SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the debate on the draft law we are debating today has been overshadowed by the general political developments, from the current political topicality, which I shall try to reach. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Broadcasting scenery. There are many unanswered questions in the debate that has taken place and I would like to put them from here. First question, gentlemen of the New Democracy: why didn't you change this scenery twenty-seven years? Be careful, not if it was wrong, that many of you have admitted it, but why didn't you change it. Secondly, why have you not implemented all these years even the laws on the regulation of the broadcasting landscape that you themselves voted on? Thirdly, independent justice in this obvious illegality, in this obvious non-implementation of the laws that you voted on, how did it stand? Fourthly, throughout your entire route when did you lie, when you legislated by closing the eye on the demands of society, or when you didn't apply the laws, by closing the eye on your big bosses? Fifth, you say you're going to abolish the law when you become a government. In my opinion, such a position on the part of the Opposition and I understand that you will give more television licenses and that you will give back - it seems your boss's pocket has hurt too much - the money they have paid. However, this means that the money used for school meals or for the four thousand hirings in the public health system will not be made. Why don't you say it? Why are you lying here? Anyway, who are you mocking at? The bosses or whatever, your partners, the owners, the big-timers or the social groups? Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are demagogues and liars. You are first of all demagogues, because your anti-language, anti-social, anti-Semitism policy needs the care, the 'demagoguery' set, so that it can become more beautiful, be understood and accepted by our people. But you are also lying, because - badly lying - the hideous face of your neoliberal, neo-conservative proposal, no matter how much you sprinkle it with demagogic sugar, it is not made, it is hidden. How do we do it? You're in front of a dead end. To support the interests of the few, which you want politically, you must ensure support or even the tolerance of many. Well, because your resignation has a lie in her DNA. One final example of a lie: In recent times, it has started in Crete, in my constituency of Heraklion, an entire campaign that I was not at the SYRIZA conference and a number of things are supposed to be "approved" reporting conclude that I have nothing to do with SYRIZA. And they wrote them or started writing them to people who either saw me at the conference or heard my intervention at the conference, or who were informed of it. What can you say? Lie, lie, lie. Before I go any further, let me just say that, by closing the ears to the noise of the pencils in all the dialogue, calm voices have been heard. There have also been sober approaches to your party, which these sober approaches confirm that this whole subject of the broadcasting landscape, which you are trying to present as a dead end, is not so. In any case, let us come back. Why is this whole opposition from New Democracy? Why is this tactic, the tough, the wild, the rabid - giving their change - which, if you like, starts many times from this sick climate that has been taken or are taking the meetings in this Chamber? In order to respond, in my view, ladies and gentlemen, we must stand beyond and above the events of everyday life, but taking into account all these events of everyday life, from whatever fact in the region of our country to the planned Obama visit. In my opinion, in the next quarter, the evaluation is complete. Secondly, Greece's position is being strengthened as a force for stability and a factor of peace in the wider region. Thirdly, we will have developments in the major issue of debt write-down. In other words, in the coming quarter, we pass the canvas and this is a success of our people, it is a success of our society, it is a success of our Government. This success is, in my opinion, a failure of the 'debt is sustainable' position, i.e. the basic government line of the Samara Government - Venizelos, PASOK - New Democracy, is a failure of the position of 'left parenthesis', that is, the main opposition line of the counterpopulation itself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. With the completion of the quarter, therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the bankruptcy of your political account, with which you tried to oppose the proposal made by the Left in Greek society, is sealed. That is why - let me say - you are giving your change at this time. Finally, Mr President, I would like to dwell on this. Have you given it all up? Because the course of this quarter is directly related to the political perspective of the New Democracy, in terms of its opposition, in my opinion, we have not seen it all. And we haven't seen it all, because the conservative party has a long history, a long experience and many reserves, which it has not yet thrown into battle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Igoumenides, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u199	In conclusion, I would like to say, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and I am addressing you from this step, not just to your colleagues here in the Chamber, but to all the fighting social forces, the response to maintenance is one: a vigilance against every deflection plan from the expressed popular will, a social and SYRIZA unit for a new Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u200	Mr Davakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, I shall refer to the amendment on the movement of military personnel. Before all, for a few seconds, I wanted to describe what the House saw a moment ago, through the speech by my colleague from Crete, as an unsolved effort. We are all aware of the situation in which SYRIZA colleagues find themselves, but this account, this rhetoric - the account is a word of fashion - of intolerance, of passions, the division of the Greek people and of their representatives does not lead anywhere, dear fellow Members. Do you think we can continue this way? This thing can't happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u202	In your party, say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u203	You were talking, and this rhetoric is a rhetoric that leads nowhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u204	Mr Davakis, do not answer and please do not interrupt the speaker. Go on, Mr. Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u205	You represent citizens who want to hear other things. That's how I feel. The rhetoric of division and intolerance has made you government, creating all the things that the country has been through since 2010 and today and you are managing a government practice. But not tell us that we are liars and demagogues directly in front of our faces. I don't accept that, and please be more careful next time. As regards the amendment on which the Bureau has given me the opportunity to speak and I thank you very much, I would like to say that the New Democracy is voting 'at present'. This regulation is a semimeter, which is tabled to cover the fact that government policy, whether because of failure or - and this is the worst - inconsistency of the authorities, is not of particular importance, it has not yet proceeded with the submission of the Presidential Decree. In addition, we ask that this decree be adopted immediately, as provided for in Article 15, because it covers the following issues: Firstly, it must adopt the scheme for the hundred days off the ground in force at Law 4436, that is, the EUR 40 per day. This money, Mr President, is an important relief, especially for officials serving in border regions and making up the majority. Secondly, it must solve the problem posed by Law No4336, namely the EUR 1000 cap on transfer costs every year. This wall is often not enough. As most Members know, officials each year have to change their place of residence considerably more frequently than other civil servants, often without wishing to do so. They are the so-called 'yearly transfers' of executives. They are usually called to cover long distances, moving to positions of the border. L.4336 arrangements limit the amount, at a level that is not sufficient to meet important needs, such as the transport of their construction and other needs to move a whole family. Imagine wanting to leave Crete and go to Orestiad or to Orestiad to go to Crete. So we expect the government to do what needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. The Parliamentary spokesman of the Centroon Union, Mr Karras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u207	You will allow me, Mr President, to speak from my position, because I shall be brief. It was not my intention to place myself on the bill, and that is why I will make a very brief description of my thoughts. First of all, we have said that we consider it positive. Of course, I would call it "experiment". It's the repetition of a previous experiment and it didn't work. If, then, the bill succeeds in creating a cooperative culture and not becoming a tool of purposes or benefits, it will have a contribution, which, of course, will not be very great, but in the context of the present context. I read the title of today's economic newspaper: "The targeting of Greece is deepening." And he points out: 'Oct hundreds of thousands of young people, due to part-time employment, reductions in wages and lower pensions'. So let us also give an opportunity to the draft legislation under discussion, which has already been analysed in many respects. Therefore, if we can have culture in this direction, it is on a limit between business and work. It is neither purely capitalist nor purely pro-laboratory. We'll see these along the way. I would like to point out the following for two - three parts of the bill, which are mainly transformed into a company: Article 15(6) states that only the Social Cooperative Company is responsible for its assets. Right. In particular, for the obligations of the State, its legal representative shall be liable for its obligations towards the State. The legal representative shall retain the right to bring an action against the other members of the Social Partnership, which, for the purposes of the debts of the previous subparagraph, shall be liable to the full extent of the tax, subsidies, recoveries of aid from the European Union. Is the purpose of making them entrepreneurs, Mr President, or should we help these people? Because if the legal representative is a bad manager, if he is a person who does not see his morality or honesty, I would also have in mind the toys that someone else is playing in their homes? Mr. Petropoulos and Mr. Paulakis are present. I think that this provision should be eased. It must not mean purely tax, but also the concept of indirect support, in order to enable those undertakings to function. For, Ministers, it is possible that this provision will be a deterrent to participation in social cooperatives. I will go further than that, and I will make another remark. It came - and I am staying in the bill - an amendment - to add to tax matters, how will workers be taxed. They will be taxed at the rate and scale of employees. That's right. Of course, it gives a picture - it is not significant - that the back of the author's mind or authors of the bill will slowly go to an undertaking purely of commercial law, since it also has the status of trade by law now. End of trade: The amount is not significant. However, I fear that, in future, it will create interpretations not only of commercial status but also of responsibility if the trade fee, which is paid by the legal person of the social company, relates to the conduct of commercial activities and of the members who are at risk of obtaining - and with unlimited responsibility - and of trade status themselves, Minister. It's possible. So, in this sense, as far as the house I mentioned and the unlimited responsibility to the State is concerned, I think that there is an unlimited liability for debts, even if Article 15 tells us that the legal person of the social undertaking is responsible for his own property. I want you to see all this. I don't know if it's the present, or if the government can see it. These are two issues that got me into trouble. I would not take the floor in this bill, but there, since we have no cooperative culture - whether we like it or not, we have all lived it, we do not have such a culture - let us protect those who want to try it through their work to support their survival. We do not see that this bill is coming to set up businesses. He comes to provide personal work. I personally correspond to a working cooperative, the mutual cooperative of the old type that existed. Therefore, with these comments, Mr President, I am not going to go any further. Ladies and gentlemen, they have been placed. I would once again ask the government to see these two points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the next speaker, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, thirty-three students and students and five teachers from the Dutch High School of Trevianum. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Steriou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. It does not surprise us as a Communist Party of Greece that you all agree with this bill. And it is no wonder we know exactly why you all agree with this economic system called the capitalist economy. And this bill - and that is why you agree - moves completely, without a millennium of mistakes, in this model of the capitalist economy. We are also not surprised that this bill is the direction of the European Union and the OECD, which are associations of capital, which you are very faithfully serving. The government in this bill shows that its aim is to strengthen business activity with the mantle - the mantle - of co-operation and the hood of great unemployment, since these cooperatives will basically be directed at the unemployed, in the hope of ensuring a dubious and small partitioning. The government, at the same time, cultivates the ideological illusion that capitalism can be an economic activity, independent of exploiting production relations and competition with business groups, that is, that these companies will not operate on the basis of profit, but work, as you are saying here all the time. But let us see some basic and revealing elements of the bill under discussion. The bill expands the responsibilities and scope of the COMPAs and opens the way to full - but full! - privatization of neurals for the working class and our people in sectors related to welfare, health, education, cleanliness, energy, water, irrigation and others. It also states in the bill that the COMPs and the workers' cooperatives may be profitable and that at the same time jobs will be paid on the basis of the minimum wage, which is currently EUR 586 and EUR 511. Tomorrow might be next. Social and solidarity economic operators will also have access to funding from the Social Economy Fund, the National Fund for Entrepreneurship and Development, which means that they will normally operate, as normal, real enterprises. At the same time, they will be able to join entrepreneurship support programmes and OAED programmes to support the unemployed by drawing on free money and free work for greater profits. As far as the entire bill is concerned, this is in the paragraph that reads: ‘The purpose of this Act is to simplify the procedures for the creation of personal and capital trading companies, in particular of the federations, the heterogeneous, private capital companies, the JEPs, the cooperatives of workers, limited companies and public limited companies’. So, outside the capitalist economy and profit target will these cooperatives work! Also, the ideologies - and that is what you say here to the coroner here - on democracy, equality and solidarity, which are included in the bill are deliberately cultivated both by you and by the European Union, especially in the years of the capitalist crisis, because the social economy is one of the tools of capitalism, in its efforts to manage unemployment, poverty, impoverishment, and to disguise and leave the unprecedented cause of it, that is, the capitalist way of organising the economy. You try to cultivate the illusion - and you are really in it - that the worker can become a collective employer of himself - and not just - that the unemployed become a boss of himself and that he no longer depends on the appetites of the capitalist and the fluctuations of the capitalist economy. The social economy, that is, was and is one of the long-term objectives of the capitalists themselves and under no circumstances constitutes a change in capitalist production relations. As the European Union itself decides ‘the cooperative business model is fully in line with the values of the European Union and the objectives of the Europe 2020 Strategy. If the European Union is taking up itself, then we are going to go crazy! Therefore, with the blessings of capital and of the European Union, the development of the social economy is encouraged and in Greece, as has been done in other countries of the European Union. In order to extend this sector to greater armour, both the urban state and the European Union are prepared to spend large sums through funding programmes. Let me give you an example of what 'good' - and you say this word transportly - can happen to such an undertaking. They are unemployed - who are unemployed because the capitalist economy has left them unemployed - a cooperative company - my backwards, which will feed children who do not have to eat, because of the way in which the economy is organized, because they are fast, because their parents are unemployed because of capitalism. These people will feel that they offer the service system and will feel grateful. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Wait a minute, please, if you'll be kind. This is the social economy in all its majesty! So this is what you are legislating here today, along with the other parties that agree with you, that you have voted together on the third memorandum, New Democracy, PASOK, Potami, ANEL, Centrons' Union, and you are baptizing it with a left reform, with a ribbon of great left. So the government, SYRIZA - ANEL, intends to troops the workers, the poor populaces, to support these urban reforms, with the illusion that this will deal with the labour-local problems. But the workers, and the unions, are clearly telling you that they have drawn up their own racing path to solve their acute problems. Over five hundred trade unions worked out and racing, with large rallys all over Greece, a proposal for a law on the replacement of all the losses in the years of crisis, the reintroduction of collective labour agreements, the reintroduction of the minimum wage to 751 euros, the abolition of all elastic employment relationships. This proposal for a draft law was tabled yesterday by our parliamentary group in the House, in response to the quest for more than five hundred trade unions. We expect, as the workers expect, that you bring her here for a debate in the House and then we decide who is with whom.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u210	You're short, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u211	In this bill - and I have finished, Mr President - our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to abolish the uniform excise duty and VAT on heating oil and natural gas, which will actually and literally relieve people in the run-up to winter. We ask that you accept it and vote for it. Thank you, Mr President, for the time you have given me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the Achaia High School (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Yoyakas, Mrs Antonopoulou has asked for the floor for some amendments and then you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u213	I have a conference, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u214	Let me first speak, Mr President, and then I shall take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u215	Okay. Mr Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me express my warmest sympathy to the family of George Pavlidis, the Regional Governor of East Macedonia Thrace, of a liberal party worker who has devoured with his presence in local government. We are also honoring the police today for offering their country, society, the individual citizen. We also honor the memory of the protector of the Body of St. Artemis, the attitude of life and the martyr death of which are a timeless model of duty. The Greek Police in recent years have been faced with major challenges, which have been inextricably linked to the course of our country. He was a protector of our borders and of the cohesion of Greek society, as well as of the support of the weak and those who really needed, coming within and outside our borders. There was also a guarantor of Greeks' political and social rights to fight, protest and claim. It also expects those who keep the seal and the signature of the state to respond to it, to keep it open and alive, beyond red lines and other ideologies. The Greek Police respond, although they continue to measure terrible losses, even though they are trying with less and less resources, yet the mind and self-determination of the women and men of this House remain high and undeniable and we thank them. Ladies and gentlemen, while respecting the subject of the debate, I will confine myself to just one comment on the news of the days. As the government's political deadlocks grow, deadlocks that it itself creates, so dense the authoritarian methods and fraudulent practices on its part. I fear that developments will, unfortunately, confirm this. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the social economy is moving in the right direction. I believe that there have been some substantial improvements proposed by our party and the other parties, and they have been accepted by the Minister. It would be useful, however, to know whether there is a government plan to develop the social economy and what it is, in which areas, in which priorities and in what ways. This would help us to assess whether the framework and tools set out in the bill serve specific objectives. The plan is what defines, for example, how the resources of the European Social Fund should go to the social economy or whether public and private legal persons can participate in social cooperatives and under what conditions. We want the social economy to really be the third sector of the economy and not an extension of public administration, as was the case with social cooperative enterprises that have worked in the past as a long hand to the municipalities. One problem that is not dealt with by this bill, like the previous law, is that there are no mechanisms for the effective support of these enterprises. It takes guidance to set up the cooperative, to find funding for the business plan, to train their members and even to manage the finances. A help desk set up in a section of the special secretariat is not enough. Another point is that the economic incentives envisaged are weak. There must be incentives for business development, let alone when social entrepreneurship is aimed at collective benefit and integration of our fellow citizens' teams. It is good to be able to participate in OAU programmes for the grant of insurance contributions, and it is good to retain benefits for members of social enterprises, but more is needed. For example, an exemption from the payment of a trade fee for the first years of operation has been proposed. It is also unclear whether and in what form collaborative social cooperatives can conclude programme contracts for the execution of social benefit projects. In any event, it must be done by a specific procedure and be compatible with Community law. This does not result from the wording of Article. We expect at least to see it in a relevant ministerial decision. I left for the end the beloved habit of governance to create structures, organs and positions of responsibility at every opportunity. The new Special Secretariat of Social Solidarity Bodies will only have a general address underneath. Two committees are created, one is baptized coordinating and the other is national. Responsibilities of the Coordinating Committee overlaps with responsibilities of the Special Secretariat, while the responsibilities of both of them together make the National Committee decorative. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that this will not work. But no doubt, the bill has some positive elements. The social economy is being opened up to more players, while efforts are being made to deal with problems of the past. It is also positive to extend the special groups by joining these young unemployed under the age of twenty-five years. It is useful, however, to remember that the social economy is not a masked state economy. So let us respect its autonomy, giving it the appropriate tools to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka. Mrs. Antonopoulou, have you asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u218	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u219	As far as the Bureau is concerned, some amendments have been made. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u220	It concerns a number of amendments and an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u221	That's three, four minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u222	I don't know, Mr. President. I need to explain some things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u223	I will give you three minutes and you will have the Bureau's tolerance over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, I would first like to respond to two points raised by Mr Economou from New Democracy in my absence, but which have come to my attention and certainly need to be answered. The first has to do with socially beneficial work. He said that public work doesn't have to be done, it doesn't work, it doesn't work! There was a refusal on his part. Who's the judge? We say that the judge is the unemployed, the one involved. For every job that was announced in the previous programming that existed from previous governments in the public service, we had five applications. With our programming and redesign for each position, we have fourteen applications. So let Mr Economou answer the unemployed who want to join. It's not going to be a judge of ours whether or not we need it. We respond to what society needs. The second point concerns a continuation of misinformation initiated by a newspaper. I said it yesterday, and I will repeat it today. Ladies and gentlemen, do not allow yourself to be misled and to repeat public remarks on which you do not have full knowledge. The question, of course, must be made to me and, as in any case, when you ask us a question, we come and respond with transparency, so we will once again respond with transparency. So let us stop this parafiscality and focus on what we have come today to discuss. I would now like to refer to four amendments. The first is topology under the general number 726 and special 43, which concerns the tax reductions which we discussed in detail in the committees. I said that we have already started the process for it to be completed in time, and we can now proceed. The amendment relates to three main measures. Firstly, 35% of the surplus or profit, let us say, is available to workers exclusively. In other words, if there is a surplus or if there is a profit, ladies and gentlemen from the JRC, this gain is paid back to the workers. I imagine that this is a clear answer to some of the issues you raise. Reimbursements to employees, not members. Only the workers. If someone is also a member and a worker, of course, he will also have his share. This is, therefore, excluded from taxation and is taxed as a personal income of an employee rather than a trader. The second relates to the trade end, which amounts to EUR 500 for the social economy operators, and which, of course, when collective bargaining exists, is shared among the workers involved. The third element concerns the trade tax exemption for the first five years, just as it applies to individual companies. In more detail, we have tabled the amendment and, if there are any questions, I am at your disposal to reply. The second amendment, number 720 and number 37, concerns the programmes for the reintegration of the long-term unemployed. Here we have a special care we want to bring for the long-term unemployed. It must be understood that long-term unemployment, in addition to a reduction in income for the unemployed and their families, also brings many other negative consequences and reduces its ability to reintegrate easily into the labour market. We have statistics that tell us that after one, a year and a half, it is very difficult to regain a job. So what do we do? We recognise the special need among the long-term unemployed, so we allow the OAS to set up specific programmes for the integration of the unemployed into jobs for twelve months. It is clear that this is not a preamble to a permanent recruitment. We also make it clear that the resources coming from this support for the long-term unemployed are either co-financed programmes or the regular budget and, of course, the AACC will oversee the legality of all procedures. The next one is the amendment with a general number 725 and a special number 42. This is the case. Every four years an unemployed person is entitled to four hundred days unemployment benefit. We are therefore bringing in a regulation, which says that you can use your unemployment benefit and turn it into a job allowance. What are we doing? We're saying these days - they're a hundred, are they two hundred? - you become part of any programme supported financially to some extent by the unemployment benefit you had before the employer - or whoever hires you, whether you are in the public or private sectors - puts the rest of the money, which correspond to the legal wage. It would be unfair if these days could not be used in the future, once again when you fall into unemployment within four years. So we allow this improvement - there was a contradiction in the law - to have this correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u225	To abolish it for the unemployed too, Minister, not just for employers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u226	They're for the unemployed. I don't understand what you're saying. Let me finish. Let's come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u227	Come on, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u228	We'll talk about it and I'll answer it for you. With the next amendment, with a general number of 721 and a special 38, we are going to make a regulation for the unemployed who are borrowers of the former Occupied Territories. What arrangement are we doing? We're saying that. When an unemployed person has completed the four months of unemployment, he shall be entitled to request that he be exempted for 12 months from the payment of the rates to be paid to the OAED. After the end of the first year and up to four months if he is unemployed - if he was unemployed at this time - he makes a request to extend for another year. So for the long-term unemployed we certainly have two years' suspension. That was something we had discussed and asked for, and I had discussed it with representatives of the JRC and it is time to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u229	Two other ministers have asked for the floor, probably one, Mr. Bernardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u230	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u231	And you, Mrs. Fotio? For amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u232	No, for...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u233	All right, now, let's not take it as a Ministerial Council. I shall give the floor to Mr Vernardakis to obviously support the amendment. Three Members will speak, one parliamentary representative and then the ministers will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u234	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u235	Please. Please. If they are amendments, you will be very happy to come in line. But now you have come to the show, while twenty-two Members are still remaining, and the parliamentary representatives have not spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u236	But, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u237	I'm so sorry. Lose the veins!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u238	But, on the contrary, they say they don't have a problem!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u239	No problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u240	I've been saying I'm fine with it all this time. Put me in whatever time you want!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u241	Mrs. Fotou, this wasn't a personal matter. Because behind you there are other ministers. Mr. Vernardakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u242	Thank you. I would like to talk about Amendment No 719 and special 36, tabled by the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, by the Ministry of Labour and by the Ministry of Health. It concerns the treatment of a chronic pathogen that exists in the Greek public administration, namely the assignment of cleaning, feeding, catering and storage needs to private companies, known contractors. It's a story that starts in 1998. It extends to 2001 and we are at a point where a very serious and budgetary issue has been created, but above all an issue of defending the basic labour, labour and economic rights of workers in these companies. This amendment allows the Ministries' services, the public-law legal persons and private-law entities supervised by the Ministries by a decision of their administration on cleaning, feeding, catering and storage requirements to conclude individual contracts of private-law fixed-term employment, provided that their existing staff are not sufficient - something which is obviously in the process of covering each organisation - and that, of course, there are unforeseen or urgent needs which are real legal or real block of uninterrupted supply by third parties or legal persons. The second key element of this provision is the savings of budgetary benefits. I want to say a few words about it. The guaranteeing of budgetary benefits, according to calculations, is huge. One characteristic number I'll give from five hospitals, which saves 1.2 a year. In other words, we have a significant reduction in the budget of the respective bodies at a time when budgets are a huge problem and the exceptional budgetary conditions require respect for the last euro that a public body gives to serve public needs. Of course, it is also very important to improve the working conditions of workers in the companies mentioned above. We must point out that the background to the violation of labour law, according to the data of the Labour Inspectorate, the OSCE, is at the top of these companies, that is to say we have extreme inconsistency. We also have better wages for workers, precisely because extremist exploitation phenomena have been unfolded, so that I can only stay on the economic exploitation and not recall the facts that we all know about and remember them, the Kuneva type and the type of extreme extortion that these workers have suffered. In our view, it is an important part of the functioning of the public administration and of the redefinition of basic labour rights in the public sector. Obviously we are ready, in the next period, to further shield these provisions by extending them to areas such as local government and other bodies, which are currently outside the scope of this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u244	Can I ask the Minister a question about this amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u245	On the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u246	A question to the Minister. Because it says in the amendment that it is not allowed to renew contracts or to convert them into an indefinite period of time, after this individual contract, what will these people become?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u247	Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u248	That's not what it says. As regards the maximum duration of the contracts, the articles of the Presidential Decree, which are up to twenty-four months, shall apply. Indeed - there is, however, a constitutional issue - a certain amount of time. The time-limits cannot, with the present constitutional frameworks, be converted into indefinite time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u249	Nor is renewal allowed, so is it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u250	Yeah, not even the renewal. Renewal is something that we will see in second year. The first thing we have to do today is manage the current situation of contract migration to individual contracts of employment from contract or contract to third parties, which are currently in existence. However, there is provision for mobilisation, on the basis of the criteria of work and unemployment, through the ADP, to be made for those workers who already have employment relationships within these companies. In the second year, in fact, we have to look at the regulation in greater detail of these conventions, obviously, taking into account the constitutional order, which is currently in force and which prohibits the conversion of fixed time into indefinite time. It is something that we must discuss as National Representation and political parties in another, obviously, framework of regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u251	All right, thanks to the Minister. Mr Giannakides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. This morning we were informed of the loss of the Regional Administrator of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace Giorgos Pavlidis. I would like to express my warmest condolences to his family and his associates. In the September elections that took place after the signing of the agreement, the Greek people again instructed the SYRIZA Government to move forward not only in terms of the part of the agreement, but mainly in order to move forward with the necessary conflicts and changes within the country. To be disappointed, the individual objectives of the Agreement shall be achieved. The first assessment has been completed, the Greek Government remains stable and continues to fight daily in order to create those conditions that will allow the Greek economy to recover. We have a government and a government majority who are struggling every day to give way and perspective to the country and especially to society. On the other hand, we have the Civic Opposition, which, instead of supporting the attempt to put an end to the fundamental deadlock - the result of its own policies - and to return to fair growth, continues to invest in the most extreme positions of lenders, the destruction and the script of the left-hand parentheses, defending and matching many times all the pathogens of the past that prevent the country, the economy and society from taking a step forward. The main responsible for the bad situation of the Greek economy continue to move to the left and to be hypocritical about the future of the country, a country that themselves, with their own choices, condemned in prolonged recession, shrinking the country's GDP by 25%, reducing domestic investment by 60%, increasing unemployment to unthinkable rates, creating conditions of humanitarian crisis for citizens, maintaining a future for young people condemned to insecurity. The parties of the triangle of interlocutory condemned the country to the present and unjust reality for the citizens. At a time when the government and the tested Greek society jointly give the battle to overcome this situation, PASOK and New Democracy are attacking this effort, struggling with contractors, canaries and intertwined interests. Not only did the Greek Government fall into the trap of the left parentheses, but it managed to keep society up in very critical times. With a view to protecting the weakest social strata, it ensured full and free nursing, diagnostic and pharmaceutical coverage of all uninsured citizens, implemented policies to tackle the humanitarian crisis, braked redundancies in the public sector and recruited the critical health and education sectors, reorganised the programmes to combat unemployment for the benefit of workers, gave and gives daily battle against corruption and interdependence at all levels, while constantly uncovering cases involving ‘blue strains’ and factors, most recently condemned by the former CEO of ESDP, the municipal company to make use of the old city of Xanthi, for infidelity and misappropriation of around 1,5 million euros, a case for which no explanation has yet been given, some response, as the New Democracy has been used to in the last few years. In order to be absolutely honest, the ESDP case is only the tip of the iceberg, as there are dozens of other cases, smaller or larger, which you wish to keep in darkness and drawers, with the most characteristic example of "Xanthi OTA S.A. Development Prefecture". It is yet another company that was led to the deadlock, due to the practices of 'blue' and 'green' executives. Today, with society standing, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government continues in the context of fair growth and takes a number of necessary initiatives towards the country's productive reconstruction, taking advantage of the Junker package and increasing public investment for the second consecutive year at the highest level since the crisis, making the most of the EU funds available - our country is the first to absorb the ESDP for 2015, while in 2016 we absorb over 6 billion by the end of the year - with the new development law, which now places emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises, breaking the status of previous development operations, which 44% of aid went to only 4% of enterprises, with a dozen fixed tax environment for large foreign and domestic enterprises over 20 million euros, with the inclusion of social enterprises in the ESDP programmes and development law, by simplifying authorisation procedures for enterprises through the reduction of bureaucratic and regulatory burdens. All this, focusing on the sectors that the country has a comparative advantage, such as agricultural production, information and communication technologies, energy and the environment, transport, culture and tourism. And, perhaps, the most important, but unexploited advantage is an excellent scientific potential highly trained young scientists. It is true that our country has a highly trained scientific capacity, which has been forced to seek a new principle abroad, by choosing the difficult path of immigration. This leak of new scientists is perhaps the most important bleeding in our country and the state has to give the new generation a breakthrough in order to stop this phenomenon. The bill we are debating today comes to answer, among other things, this issue. Taking the thread from a series of necessary government reforms, such as the reform of the framework for the operation of agricultural cooperatives, the new legislative framework for social and solidarity economics was tabled, which can and must play an important role in the direction of productive reconstruction. Social and solidarity economies mean all the economic activities carried out by collective initiatives and prioritise the needs of their members and the wider community. They have autonomous management, they operate democratically, while workers have a head start in the distribution of profits. The main feature of social and solidarity economics is that they prioritise the needs of their members and society rather than profit. But they also differ in the structure and organization they choose for their operation. The basic elements of a company which is part of the social and solidarity economy are the democratic decision-making process based on one vote, the horizontal organisation, the irrevocability of the roles of its members and the equal forms of pay for work. According to the European Commission, today in the European Union there are two million social enterprises, representing 10% of all enterprises in the European Union. Businesses within the framework of the social and solidarity economy appear in various legal forms and extend across the range of economic activity, from agriculture to the financial sector, and employ more than eleven million people, about 6% of the European Union's workers. According to the International Cooperative Alliance, the cooperatives provide a hundred million jobs, that is 20% more than the ones provided by multinational companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Giannakides, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, the case of the reorganisation of the cooperative project is very important. We need to overcome any chronic illnesses, diseases for which previous governments are responsible to a very large extent. The bad deposit that the agricultural cooperatives have left has so far stood behind in the development of cooperative forms in Greece. There is also a barrier in the complex institutional framework and the lack of know-how, problems that we are trying to tackle with this draft law. The vote of the bill is another step in the direction of exiting from the economic recession, another step towards returning the country after years on a development path, ensuring for all citizens, but above all for young people, progress and advancement, justice and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u255	Before I give the Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, let me make a statement. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding on the Organisation, Administration, Security, Financing and Reinforcement of NATO Mixed Climb for Electronic War [Joint Electronic Warfare Core Staff (JEWCS)] in support of NATO, between the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Ministry of Defence of the United States of America, the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the United States of America. The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Dannelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the trivialisation of justice refers to authoritarian regimes, outside the European acquis. Alas, if our model is the Hungary of Orban. Prosecutors, terrorism, the targeting of judges do not go hand in hand with the functioning of democracy and allow justice to do its work. However, I cannot help talking about the sad moral decline of the newspaper “AGE”. Of course, I am referring to the "yellow" post on the S.H.E.'s judiciary, actively participating in the blackmail campaign. It is incomprehensible and I regret, ladies and gentlemen, that the historic newspaper, symbol of the renewal, the Left, its values and games, the newspaper of Leonidas Kirkos, Gregory Yannaros, Antonis Brillakis, the Sofian Chrysostides - to stay in them - is mutated into sub-world and jungle food. And it makes me so sad that the world of the newspaper “HAY”, its people, have not yet risen up for this reproach, which obviously does not represent them. Now on the bill. The social entrepreneurship, which we are discussing today, historically lies in the intervening of the state-owned and state-owned and, now, outdated economy and without barriers and control of the market economy. That is, basically, the social economy is the third road to the economy and it would not be too much to say that through it civil society is economically expressed, as both collective and individual responsibility is exploited. In this sense, therefore, I believe that our political priority should be to support the model of the third sector, a sector which is closely linked to the concepts of environmental protection, social cohesion and the many social conquests. Because social entrepreneurship contributes significantly to job creation, sustainable growth and fairer distribution of income and wealth. This is because it can combine profitability with social inclusion and democratic governance systems, while promoting public-sector synergies with the private sector, with a view to adapting services to the current needs of society. It is no coincidence that the international sector has managed and managed a financial crisis much better than other sectors, and that is why it is constantly gaining recognition at European level. The social partners have managed to direct dispersed and inactive resources towards economic activity, mobilising resources at local level, strengthening entrepreneurial spirits, because social enterprises, at least in other countries, can eliminate market rigidity, encouraging flexibility and promoting local adaptation of production. Recognising all of this, European legislators have been led over recent years to significant improvements in existing European legislation. Thus, particular attention was paid to the political and legal recognition of the sector, as was done, for example, by the Single Market Act, the initiative on social entrepreneurship, the institutional framework of the European Foundation and the Social Entrepreneurship Funds. However, as usual, our country follows international developments from the position of the pig. Our law, Law No.4019/2011, on the social economy and social entrepreneurship, which was the first legislative initiative in Greece to institutionalise this new type of business for Greek data, was a good step, and has sank in the chronic pathogens of the Greek public and also in the unfavourable economic conditions of the years of crisis. Although Law 4019 provided for a number of tax reductions and incentives for employment of workers in the ESCB, they did not only apply but were phased out horizontally, due to the tight commitments and limitations imposed in 2013. The imposition of a trade fee on all independently of the COMPAs, even on those that have no revenue, gave almost the graceal shot to all those who chose to be entrepreneurial in this way. Even more so, the suffocating conditions of private sector enterprises, such as the lack of liquidity, overtaxation, tax advances, the inability to borrow new businesses and the failure to access European funding have been transferred to the area of social entrepreneurship. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you gave me six minutes. I am speaking as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u257	Yes, I think I have found myself as a reserve now that the time of all the speakers, and of the Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, will be six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u258	I didn't talk yesterday. I didn't take the floor. Anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u259	Either way, tolerance exists from the Bureau, don't worry. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. The law that we are discussing, I think, is unclear in terms of our strategic choice. Are we seeking to strengthen the self-organisation of the social and solidarity economy or state control and its full dependence on the state? The philosophy of the Bottom-up, on which social entrepreneurship is based, is not recognized in this legislation. You are making a detailed exhaustive and highly bureaucratic set of rules for the operation of these enterprises, de facto putting obstacles to self-regulatory and collective management, which are, of course, the cornerstones for the establishment and operation of the COMMDs. In our view, the role of the central administration should be that of final control, as should be done in a modern European state, rather than in the detailed and exhaustive definition of every detail. This does nothing but increase the internal bureaucracy of the COMMDs, which means a significant burden on their operating costs, thus strangling their efforts at the end of the day. As usual, of course, new additional jobs are being created, new state structures are being created. Two additional special secretariats, two committees, one address, seven new departments, with thirty-nine employees, cost several hundred thousand euros a year. You, of course, insist that they are extremely necessary for the project, we believe that there could have been a reorganisation of the staff already in existence and a rational distribution of them. I fear that by enforcing the number of jobs created in the COMECF at all levels, we are helping them. In modern market conditions, it cannot apply to any type and form of business. Furthermore, the economic, tax or labour incentives, which should be the main body of the draft legislation under discussion, I fear that we do not see it being identified. You said they'd come with an amendment later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u261	I just read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u262	Good. I hope that the area within which we are trying to create an appropriate climate for the effectiveness of the JPAs is improved. Also, because there is no need to discover the wheel in anything, I think that good practice, particularly in France and Italy, could give us an answer to all the individual issues that we are detecting. I wonder what relationships with social entrepreneurship may have unions and associations, state and municipal companies, as well as private companies. What does all this practically mean? That any company writes in its statute that it is engaged in charitable, social, then can it automatically be described as an economic solidarity body?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u263	Where do you come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u264	So, to whom will the pitiful resources, the EUR 157 million or, at best, the EUR 500 million be allocated? I wish they could be made available. Is it enough, on the other hand, for programming contracts with municipalities for real estate to go ahead with the social economy in the country? I fear that, while you are obviously improving conditions in relation to the existing legislative framework, we are not responding to mature issues that are crucial and crucial in their response so that this institution, which is necessary as ever and is hopeful as ever, is in a society with the characteristics of suffering that our society has. I shall conclude with two words on Amendment No 719/36. This is where I fear very much that we are coming back to bankrupt models of the last decade. The conversion of cleanliness, guarding, fooding in the wider public sector into fixed-term contracts, I think it leads us to what we do not all want to remember, to a hostage of found workers, which is judged by their fate each time by the Minister and his will, the government and its will. I fear that it takes us to shapes which could then, during the cheap loan period, be supported, of course, if we then loaded the cheap loan on the backs of the next generations, but today they cannot stand. If there is infringibility in the area of contractors - which, of course, exists - I think that the mechanisms of control must operate and do their job. I am also very afraid that, because the legislative framework, the constitutional framework, European legislation is clear in all of this, we will put the public as well in adventures of time and work and principles. The urgent or unforeseen need, referred to, cannot be legally, legally. I think that they are actually seen in practice in each case and there will be very great problems there. I think we should look at this amendment again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u266	Soon, Mr President, I will finish. I have missed before the legislative improvements to mention that in cases of invalidity pensions, which have not been decided by the CEPR, we are extending with this legislative improvement until 30 June 2017 the possibility of extensions by six months, as provided for in other previous regulations. Also, because there was a criticism that we wanted to give the social security institution property for public use, social objectives, where, anyway, we need to protect social needs and we said that there can be any consideration, we have eliminated the "accident" and we say "in return". We will see what this will be in exchange for the decisions of the boards of directors. That is what I failed earlier to develop during the legislative improvement, to which I referred. As regards the amendment proposed, concerning the extension of the contract on the provision of agreed level of support services, it is the IKA OP, known. As the tendering procedures have not been completed, this time limit is extended until the end of 2017, unless the procedure for the award of this work to another Office is completed, to another company providing such services. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The speaker of SYRIZA, George Chogas, has the floor. Two other Members will follow, and then we will give the floor to the Deputy Minister, Mrs Fotio. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the strong criticism of the representatives of the River to the newspaper "HAGI" was unjust, excessive, because this post did not come first. They had already preceeded other processes. It was a mere transfer of prior proceedings. I don't know why he was so strongly criticised. Maybe it's due to the apparent swan song of the river. We are talking today about the Greek and solidarity economy bill, about the development of operators and other provisions. This is a special and charismatic bill, which introduces innovative regulations, which finalises a third sector of economic activity as an option, creating jobs in a winter economy. It does not look forward to storage and enrichment. It reinvests profits and operates through democratic processes and solidarity logic, introducing alternative forms of organisation of production, distribution, consumption of goods produced with class-based left-wing choices. Fantasies about capitalist coexistence or inspiration of the bill rather betray a left nervousness. Ladies and gentlemen, the concept of the social solidarity economy forms part of all those economic activities producing goods and services, with clear and distinct financial assumptions, compared to those carried out in the public sector. Even though its historical record is quite profound in the past, its concepts have played a dominant role as practices of solidarity and social self-defense, but, above all, as antibodies to the economic crisis, which has plagued the country for nearly seven years. The forms of organisation and functioning of the social and solidarity economy differ radically from the strictly hierarchical functions in the private and public sphere, since they are not dominated by ideoleptic obsessions to maximise their profitability and their continuous expansion. The new draft law on the social and solidarity economy and the development of its institutions aims to restructure the existing legal framework with L.4019/2011, in order to recognise and safeguard the implementation processes in interactive time, while addressing the new fields - challenges and potential for expanding its application, based on the current reality. This is an attempt to develop the social and solidarity economy as an autonomous productive activity, which can be undertaken by all citizens in all economic activities. The scope of the social and solidarity economy is widened, beyond the well-known monopolies and the exclusiveness of its expression through social cooperatives, the ESCCs, and extends to all recognised legal but multi-faceted entities, provided that they comply with the principle of democratic operation and are structured by rules for limiting distributed profits. It shall establish the Social Economy Fund in Article 9 whose resources will come from the budget of the Public Investment Programme, through which programmes of actions and support for social and solidarity economic operators will be financed. The fund will support all OALO entities that do not have access to the banking system, but are engaged in productive activities. It will strengthen the development of innovative financial instruments. It will organise the collection of all support measures to a public body and, by tracering the needs of the operators, the necessary conclusions on the effectiveness of State aid will be drawn. It introduces a new legal person, the Workers' Cooperative, in Article 23, ex officio trade as a civil cooperative under Law 1667/1986, with the aim both of serving the needs of its members and of creating jobs, based on the principles of equivalence in productive relations, so that the natural persons involved enjoy a decent and stable job. Another view is therefore founded on the organisation of productive relations and the provision of goods and services, preferring not the accumulation of funds, but on the reinvestment of growing wealth, under the self-evident condition of strict compliance with the rules of democracy, equality, solidarity and environmental sensitivity. This new legal person, which already exists and operates in other European legislation, is first introduced into the Greek legal system. It is addressed to workers of bankrupt companies, problematic and abandoned, to very small or individual enterprises and to young people and young people who choose to stay in the country, but whether they do not want or cannot join a defective labour market, which does not guarantee their individual dignity. Articles 37 to 42 of the other provisions establish a Special Secretariat for Social and Solidarity Economy, established as a single area of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, with a view to resolving the problems of Greek public administration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government again proves that it does not fall short of the current difficulties. The provisions of this draft law are a series of regulations with a strong social character. They show indisputably the Government's intention to support weak social groups, stand in solidarity with the unemployed, the socially excluded, the disabled and the retired and, through the social and solidarity economy, support alternative forms of entrepreneurship, giving perspective to those who find themselves in difficulty, contributing to the removal of their economic, social and personal deadlock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Mitafidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u270	I would first like to welcome the two amendments concerning the extension of cleanliness contracts so that we can get out - that is our expectation - from the vicious circle of revolving unemployment and working hostage. As I also welcome the amendment tabled by Mr Vernardakis a moment ago, which relates, of course, to ensuring the public interest in the sectors of cleanliness, storage and feeding services provided by third parties in the public sector. Mr. Danellis, who is not here, is your fire against SYRIZA and the newspaper "The AUGI". It seems that as the Potami faces existential agony, it is trying to hang itself from the rotten ropes of a non-principal propaganda campaign that has been developing in recent days against SYRIZA and the newspaper “AGE”. He's not here, of course, Mr. Panayotopoulos, somewhere else he's going to be right now, but I think his colleague, Mr. Stylus, can take it to him. I would like to say to him that he made a major mistake yesterday, and he addressed a serious characterisation, saying that we have let the 'coolers' move freely, with our legislative interventions, as was the improvement of the law on harmlessness. Due to this improvement, a historic member of yours - Vassilis Papagoropoulos - for years as Mayor of Thessaloniki, two sentenced for a felony embezzlement in the Municipality of Thessaloniki, is currently free. I don't know what you'll have to tell him. And you know that the city of Thessaloniki, unfortunately, pays the cracks of misappropriation in duplicate and a cape, due to a joint ministerial decision made by your coup d'état with PASOK and turned theft into a debt. Unfortunately, this is still true nowadays too. I would also like to say something to colleagues from the Communist Party of Greece. Standard reasoning can't stand the contradiction. The contradiction, however, is how things exist. That's how life exists. The dogmatic perception of things cannot accept that in conditions of capitalism, we can create the terms of a different organization of society - better, to "photograph" a different way of organising society its self-organization. Without that means that we are legislating 'in the society of free cooperative production', as Marx said and as socialism should be. This, however, also shows the very dynamic of reality that society of greed, private interest and profit has a limit to itself, which is profit, and that of course does not allow society to live. So that's what we're trying to do. We are legislating what in recent years - particularly by giving the battle for the markets without intermediaries - we have done so, through initiatives developed in society. That, if you want, is the hope that we can get out of today's stall. Because a society that is still in motion has absolutely no future. And I would like, Minister, to say that I feel a deep melancholy, because at the same time as we legislate on the social economy, two days ago the TIADE sold a place that could be - and at the request of the professionals of the city - a social economy island. I am referring to the historic market of Modiano in Thessaloniki. I would not say 'anti-light plate', but at a price below and below history and its value, at the same time that, throughout the rest of Europe and the world, historical markets are elements of their identity and are also a place for people to meet in this society of personalization. Of course, we hear assurances that the historical nature of the space will be maintained. We wish. I would like to say to you, however, that we have a very bad example in our town, the historic smoking plant of the Austrian, which, if you like, played in the uprising of May 1936. What's up today? Maintaining the two outer walls and inside have housed the American consulate, multiplex cinemas, cafes, etc. This, of course, shows a contempt for what we consider necessary in terms of the social history of the city, which, on our own government next Sunday, will officially celebrate its liberation from the Nazi occupation troops for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Koutsoukos from the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, the PASOK Democratisation - DIMAR has been placed with our rapporteur Mrs Christophilopoulou and with the other speakers, Mr Kegeroglu and the colleagues who have spoken of our positive attitude to the institutional organisation of the social economy, as a necessary place between the private sector and the state. We made serious comments during the debate, some of which have been accepted. We have voted in favour at first, and of course we have criticised articles that create heavy, cost-effective structures, which may lead to a dilute integration or degeneration. But that will be the case. I would like to stand by, as I have heard the honourable Member, Mr Mitafidis, who spoke earlier in the area of the social economy, in the difference in the conception of democracy and of PASOK, which legislated on Law 4019 and the then opposition, of SYRIZA, which is now a government. What we have said and what I have had the honour of supporting this legislative intervention in the short time I have spent in the Ministry of Labour - because I remind you that I have resigned and the reasons are known, I do not want to repeat them - are now being said by the SYRIZA and its Members. When we talked about it, however, we were denounced here by the opposition. I say this every time for the Greek people to remember that they are some who hold a firm line, that of the social democratic forces, and some who remember principles and values whenever it suits them. I'm closing this observation for the bill. Mr President, I would like to come to the procedure for the amendments because we have tabled two amendments as the Democratic Incorporation of PASOKs, which were not mentioned by the multiplier ministers who have paralyzed here. But let me make a comment on a position I heard at the time I was here. Is the Minister responsible for the reconstruction, modernisation and reorganisation of the public administration, which leads workers to cleanliness and other work from Scylla to Harybdis? Because, on the one hand, it says that it abolishes the slavery of the contractors and, on the other, leads them to the hostage of fixed-term contracts. And when Mr Katsotis asked him what was going to happen with these workers, he "hacked" them and ears, saying that we will also find the limitation of the Constitution! Obviously, this is not a proper policy. Because if they serve permanent and lasting needs and a left government does not want them to be held hostage, these positions are announced in the process of indefinite time rather than the time set to hold them hostages and to create'strategists' who will obey the party jewels or the party strategies that are carved every time and which we have paid for them in this country. At last, we have to put a mind on it. That is why there is a ban on extending fixed-term contracts in the Constitution. Because they are doing a specific emergency job. If these work is permanent, stable - because it is cleanliness, it is the cooking workers, the guardians - there is no other reason for the government not to declare these posts. With regard to our amendment, which relates to Mrs Fotou's powers, she says that the structures created on the basis of the programme which we had produced with sixty-nine structures of direct social problems will require workers. We have tabled an amendment which says that we need to modulate the experience of workers with enhanced criteria so that they can re-enter these new structures, because they are necessary. Furthermore, this amendment also comes to raise a question of legality, because if the criteria for mobilisation are not legislated, notices will be blown up. We want to hear something. And I end with the amendment we have tabled to resolve the issue of workers in the ELGA. I had a controversy here in the Chamber this morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the procedure of parliamentary scrutiny with Mr Apostle. The ELGA workers are strikers, because despite the fact that the government has promised them to solve the road transport issue, it does not solve it. Greece has been subjected to great disasters and disasters all this year and there are no estimates. The same has happened with the farmers of Elijah. Mr Apostle, therefore, with a great deal of courage he told me this morning that they cannot accept the amendment - we have tabled it seven times and now sign Members from four parties - because it is subject to the restrictions of the memorandum. No falseer! Because the law itself provides for exceptions. I'll say something else that's very important. If there was a political will, they would have resolved it because I have just found that an amendment by Mr Kammens and Mr Tsakalotos has been tabled to resolve the issue of military road transport which is mentioned in the same provision of the law. So the government does not want to solve the issue that concerns the workers in the ELGA, and it is about the compensation of farmers and the rest it says is cheap excuses, or rather, to say otherwise, it legislates two standards. She is not interested in farmers! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Mr. Fotou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Koutsouko, before I begin with the bill, I have been placed yesterday - to tell you that you will have a development on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about the Roma Special Secretariat. For almost a century, Roma stay in Greece has been characterized by high rates of illiteracy, poverty, homelessness and unemployment. These rates are the highest in Europe. And of course, they are higher, as in Europe, than in the general population, that is to say we are following what is happening in Europe. Why? Because Greek Roma, citizens of this state, Greek citizens, registered about fifty thousand, but much more non-registered in the polls - and this is a job that we need to do right away - live in conditions of social isolation and social exclusion, because they lack five basic goods in five main areas. Firstly, they face a lack of decent housing conditions and human life, because 50% of them are housed in rough housings, barracks, etc., in hundreds of fifty large camps and so fewer and enclaves. Secondly, their access to the labour market is difficult to reach and therefore lack a stable income. They are therefore based on seasonal employment and on pre-primary allowances and, of course, they happen to be multiple and unreported. The majority of them are being entangled in an informal falsification, an insane economy, because they lack educational and professional qualifications. Thirdly, their participation in the educational system is small. The majority of them are illiterate, and that is why we must immediately move annexes to special secondary schools, which we do, because if they do not receive the primary school degree they cannot find work anywhere. The school abstention is, of course, reduced, but very easily relived, increased, because students have a problem with the movement of children, have a problem due to school's distance, a lack of permanent residence and, of course, face racism within schools. Fourthly, there are health problems. They live ten years less than the life expectancy of the general population, because, of course, conditions of economic tolerance, poor nutrition, a lack of hygiene conditions result in this. Fifthly, while at human rights level they are covered, in practice there is no good application of the laws for them. So, if this is an image, what do we do as a country? We have developed infinite national social inclusion strategies for the Roma from 2001 to 2008. Also, in 2011, at the request of the European Union, we submitted new such strategies again without result. Why? Because they're fragmentary. In 2015 we submitted the national monitoring mechanism for these policies, which was a precondition for disbursing any amount from the social funds for the social NSRPs. We did so in time, and it was accepted. So we understand today - and it is a term again from the European Union - that we will either bring programmes into four areas, those that I mentioned to you - work, education, health and housing - and of course with synergy between the ministries or, firstly, that community funds are not disbursed, as the European Union has already distributed to the country for some time now, that 'whether you are doing integrated projects or not disbursing Community funds', and, secondly, if we do not do this synergy with the ministries and with the municipalities, with the regions, with the Roma communities, we will of course never have results, as we have not had until now. Many millions have been destroyed, colleagues of counter-population, New Democracy and PASOK. You know that. They didn't bring any results. Why? This is exactly the role of the Roma Special Secretariat. There is no other body in the government that can coordinate the ministries, which can draw up all these policies. There's no other instrument. It cannot be done through the Directorates of the Ministries. You also know very well that all that has been heard is lacking in the torment of common sense. You cannot say that we are setting up a SYRIZA state with the Roma Special Secretariat, i.e. with a man, the Special Secretary. Everyone else comes from moving through the public sector, with transfers, moves etc. because, as you know, the tenth and all the positions we are establishing cannot be taken today because of memoranda and so on. So which state of SYRIZA? In other words, all right, the opposition is bounded by limits and it's the limit of logic. We recommend the special secretariat, really. This special secretary now, what's he doing? She has two divisions all and all, five people on one and five on the other. What's a department doing? One makes planning, coordination and monitoring, that is, actually plans the policies, coordinates the ministries, the bodies I mentioned, etc. and represents the country in the international forums, European and others. The other makes documentation, publicity and support for the Roma mechanism, that is to say, supports the information system, sees the data, sees the indicators, makes political publicity for citizens - we all need to know exactly what is happening - and at the same time supports the Roma advisoryly. These are the two sections. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will be ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a moment. At the same time, it creates a council of experts, composed of contact points on Roma issues, officials from the relevant ministries, regions and also, the Citizens' Counselor, the General Secretariat of Gender Equality, ELSTAT, as well as representatives from Roma communities. What have we done so far, beyond what we bring you? We've mapped all the camps. At the moment we see which regions have put money, which municipalities are ready to take action. So we're preparing a long priority story, which is where we're going to start. We're not ethers. We do not do an instrument to do it, but so that it can work as a tool right now and speed up history with the Roma. Here, indeed, those of you who say what you say and do not vote for this special secretariat must tell the Roma what is to be done about them. You must say instead of going to unwritten votes when the time comes. You must tell with what policy you will face what the whole House knows in here. That's what I have to say. I say that we are opening a new chapter, with a responsibility, with very high expectations and with consultation with all the Roma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u275	Mr Stylus has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rest of the New Democracy colleagues have in principle been placed in relation to the Social Economy Bill which we are discussing today in plenary. In my brief position, I would like to refer to a specific article, Article 53 on the clearance of due obligations of the EEAY, namely debts for individuals in the private economy, pharmacists, doctors, diagnostic centres, clinics, medical centres, laboratories, nurses, those who are in fact assisting the work of public hospitals and offering Greek society. They are our fellow citizens, who are currently in a difficult and difficult economic situation, because they owe the state money to them. I therefore believe that the fact that ten days ago the dose was not disbursed to the Greek state by the Eurogroup is a burden on their position. And the responsibility for not disbursing this instalment is to the government because it did not show a complete plan for the outstanding debts. I'll analyse it later. Ladies and gentlemen, this article is badly written. Our prolongation, the New Democracy, has been expressed and has all the will to agree on this draft law. However, Article 53 comes, which, in its curiosity, is confusing, opaque and raises many questions. I spoke to the committee and asked specific questions to the Minister. However, the Minister came to the end of the second reading, while we had another bill that we discussed in plenary and did not answer the questions I had put. And during the hearing representatives came to the committee, but no representatives came from the EEA administration who could give us answers. They only came to listen. So I'm saying this. Previously, in 2011, another arrangement concerning the same scheme had been made. We would have expected an analysis and some results on how that arrangement went, if it were good, on what it did not succeed and on what it had not achieved then, to come to cure them a new arrangement, which is not happening. Nor has it been done for the previous regulation, but it does not explain exactly what he is curing, but it makes us more confused. In addition, there was an arrangement in 2013. Nor has the head of the Ministry of Health come to give us some explanations. So I ask, what period does the regulation refer to? It took ten days, three meetings to the committees, to meet yesterday, so that the Minister can come today and say that this arrangement also applies to the period from 2012 to 31-1-2016 and until 30-4-2016? Why? Why don't you start over? Let's go down. Who is involved in this arrangement? In paragraph 2(c) of Article 53, it states ‘cleared liabilities’. What does it mean by cleared obligations? Have they been cleared and the money hasn't been paid back? Some people who have been cleared, have they been given the money? Have they been paid and who are they? And those who have not been paid who are and how much money is it? The same paragraph mentions the word 'patients' and 'patients' in the explanatory statement. I said it before I put it in committee. Nowhere else, however, within the article and nowhere else within the law, the word 'patients' is not mentioned. So, do we have obligations on patients? You know that if the five years are over, the obligations on patients no longer exist. So what do we know? This article adds to the confusion. We do not know what this is about. Should you be seeing this again and clarifying them to us in relation to these questions? How much are the regulated debts? It is not clear from anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u277	The Minister answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u278	The Minister didn't answer, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u279	Okay, don't interrupt. Mr. Style, continue your position. If necessary, there are ministers to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u280	Reading the provision and all the documents accompanying it does not clearly indicate what amount this provision relates to. That's what we want to know. What is the amount involved? There is also no reference to the amount in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. So, then, I come and say, because the Ministry does not have any specific evidence, did the Minister come today to tell us in general that it would benefit from this arrangement? Of course it will benefit if money is given. Although a question arises here again. Many representatives of providers at the hearing said that these invoices have already been granted to banks. So what economy will help when they are obviously given to pay off their obligations towards the banks? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I end up in a minute. What is the benefit of the setting and who wins? He has to make that clear to us. Are they going to win the insurance funds? How will the insurance funds be cleared? He had to bring us a specific table, tell us what has been paid, when he was paid, how many are unresolved, because he is unresolved, who is due to unresolved. Let me raise a final point, Minister. At some point, the Agency and the insurance funds should be cleared up and kept in a concrete way, a chronological order, one which everyone will know, doctors, pharmacists, clinics, diagnostics, everyone, how they are paid, do not create questions and ambiguities, and that further increases confusion. You therefore understand that without information, without transparency, legislative intervention is confusing and not clarifying the data. And I would like to say one last word in relation to their SYRIZA colleagues who are interrupting fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u281	And finish this, Mr. Style.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u282	I do not know whether everyone has taken on the role of the parliamentary representative or the supporter with very great fanaticism of the government. I would ask them to be - for their own good and for the good of Parliament - more careful. Because, many times, the ministers come here and don't know, they don't have any evidence. So don't defend situations where you don't have any evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u283	Mrs Karakosta has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u284	Colleagues and colleagues from too many speakers and many speakers have heard the objective we are voting on today. It is a third pillar that enters the economy, a third pillar that develops GDP on the one hand, and on the other it corrects to some extent specific categories of unemployed. However, I do not want to talk about this, because I think it has been quite exhausted. What is of great value and very important is that we are going to a reversal of the logic that society has been operating to date. It is important that we leave from the logic of individualism, which has so far been dominated and not randomly at all levels, in education, in work, in the neighborhood, in friends and in society, and in cooperation. And that is very important to us that we have been on the left for years, because the concepts of "collectivity" and "movement" were really the first words in what we chose to do. They are of great importance too - and I want to stress them - two pieces of the bill. One part is what Mrs. Fotio brings with the Roma. He quite rightly said that what we do, we will do so in consultation with the Roma and the society of course. Because, as we know, the phrase 'entry into their society' is not simple, and I also do not know whether or not we need to integrate them. We must support them as diversity, we must train them. It does not mean that we integrate them, as we mean today's accession. I won't go any further on this. It is a very serious part of Roma education, and that is where we need to rely, because that is where any change will begin, even at the workplace. It is therefore of great importance that we today, with this bill, give opportunities to the unemployed. I have heard Mrs Papayannakis today - and there I am really sad about the partners, and I will say here, on the other side of the JRC - and I am very sorry that she has set out examples that have been applied for many years in Latin America and in other countries about self-organization, self-management, concession of land to groups of people who have been unemployed who have been involved in a productive process. Even if this at the end has not been successful, I do not want my mind to go to the cause why the result of the Leninist revolution has not been welcomed in the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u285	It's the same thing! Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u286	Let me tell you now. So what should we try to do? Why is it very important when you start something, all of this making it a popular movement, all of this to go to society, all of this to do faith in people, believe the worker can manage himself and not say, "What are we waiting for? The worker should not be eroded and made an entrepreneur as well?’ No, we need to shape another culture, another society, that's the left fight. It is not a left-wing struggle to believe that because the workers' accountant cannot manage the cooperative properly, we will resign. No, I'm not quitting, I'm correcting mentality, logic, manner of exploitation, and in that direction what am I doing? I am putting a law that simply says, at first, 'principally, the gain will be distributed to those who work'. What else is that? And the remaining figure, 60%, will be invested in work. He expanded the activity you do and put other unemployed on the same terms. That is what the Left has to make a bet, that is, step by step, change the landscape, thinking and mentality in our country. That is how the Left will win, and so we will have hope that we can once get to socialism, perhaps to communism, which you are asking for. Because the Left really speaks of internationalism, it speaks with very great meanings, that the weaknesses of people have not allowed us to reach the perfect result in the time we live. But let us give small, everyday steps in the next generations to shape another climate, another certainty, so that we do not have unemployed and not have accountants, politicians or prime ministers, who, when the system falls, become rich and leave the logic of working class service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u287	Mr Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to vote on the bill on social and solidarity economy and the development of its institutions. This bill is part of the effort of the Ministry of Labour to boost the development of the social economy. The wish of all is to become an important tool for managing the effects of the economic crisis and, in particular, unemployment, by increasing production structures and the optimum distribution of profits. I should first of all welcome the intention of a majority of Parliament's parties to vote in favour of this bill. I am convinced that at least bills such as this should be widely accepted for both symbolic and practical reasons. It is true that Parliament has many times voted, but the substance of the legislation is neither intrinsic nor legalised on a social basis. The multi-party support of such a bill is therefore a safe basis for its practical success. The bill to strengthen the social and solidarity economy seeks to encourage citizens' economic activity by separating their initiatives. It comes to modernise the existing legal regime and introduce a new institutional framework for the operation of a wide range of economic activities. In addition to the social cooperatives, known to all the COMPAs, the workers cooperative is introduced, a cooperative partnership of at least three individuals. In addition, the monitoring and support of all activities will be carried out by a regional mechanism, while a special thematic secretariat is set up for the purpose of the coordination of ministries. Furthermore, in the context of the Ministry's initiatives to be voted on, the Social Economy Fund is being activated, with resources from the public investment budget, which will support ambitious, innovative projects from our fellow people. Finally, the procedures for the establishment of such schemes of social and solidarity economics, through the interconnection of the register with the General Commercial Register, the so-called GEMI, are simplified. The main principle and ambition of the bill is collectiveness in the sense of increasing the available jobs and simultaneously covering social needs, in order to serve the collective interest. Moreover, the age of favouring day-to-day micro-stakeholders has passed, and we must all ensure that a new institutional framework is created, which will respond effectively to the problems, as they have been created by the long-term recession. Allow me, however, to dwell on some parts of the bill, which I consider to be important. I shall therefore refer to the social and solidarity economic operators, who aim to benefit socially, while their function is purely democratic. Each member shall have the right to vote irrespective of his or her contribution. This safeguards the social reference of the Contracting Party and prevents the creation of conditions which are incompatible with the spirit of the law. After all, no reasoning exercise can function under conditions of lack of democracy. The framework now for the annual distribution of profits is another memorable contribution. 5% is available to form a reserve, 35% is attributed to the employees of the institution and the remainder is available to activities such as the creation of new jobs or the expansion of the production base. We are therefore talking about reinvesting and redirecting profits to the real economy, with a view to growth alone. Our hope is that the cooperative spirit will help restart the healthy forces of Greek society and economy. Thirdly, on the basis of always the existence of a harmoniously functioning reasoning, the remuneration of work may not exceed three times the minimum wage unless two-thirds of the members of the general meeting of the body decide otherwise. Balance of pay contributes to establishing a collaborative climate instead of a vertical structure. ATTs I and B grades, public-law legal entities and private-law legal entities as entities of general government may grant, by decision of their administrative body, the use of their movable and immovable property to social and solidarity economic operators to strengthen their activities. Thus, these bodies are interconnected with local government and general government bodies. I would also like to mention that subsidiary initiatives are being taken to establish an institutional framework that shields the functioning of the bodies. In conclusion, I would like to point out that this bill is a golden opportunity to transform part of our country's economic activity. In the past there have been many malfunctions in trying to encourage the idea of collectiveisation and setting up such bodies. But both the crisis and the political transformation, with the rise of the left in the government, give rise to opportunities. Here is a glorious field for a new beginning! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u289	Before giving the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Incorporation, Mr Loverdos, Mr Alexiades has asked for the floor on the amendment by a general number of 718 and a special 35. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr President. It is an amendment which I think has been distributed since yesterday under general number 718 and special 35. With this amendment we have an extension of the deadline for the adoption of a Presidential Decree. By Law No.4336, a presidential decree should be issued within nine months that would regulate the costs of moving members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies. The nine months have elapsed, and there is a need to regulate this matter. That is why, with this amendment, we have an extension of the time limit for the adoption of the relevant Presidential Decree by 30-6-2017. I say this again, it concerns the regulation of the movement of personnel from the Armed Forces and the Security Corps.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u291	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. The floor has been asked by the parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos. SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Mandas, will follow, and then we will continue with the speakers' list. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my position, my second-guess, as a parliamentary representative, on a matter that concerns specific provisions of the draft law. Minister, I'm not sure if it's two or three. It is, however, in the first regulations, where it talks about the possibility of participation by non-governmental organisations. I would like to stress something that Mrs Christophilopoulou has identified to a large extent, that you should see the danger that all processes of the social economy will be transformed into financing social solidarity. Social economy - you certainly know that, since you introduce this law - it is an economy above all. And it is a method which is ubiquitous ultimately in the public interest, the interests of people - in this sense of mutual benefit - to function in the field of the economy. I fear that the quality of the administration is such that it will delay issues relating to the social economy and when funds are lost, it will try to absorb them by transferring the burden of funding to non-governmental organisations. I believe that the arrangements, as you have ordered them, do not exclude this risk. That is why, by the end of the meeting today, with a legislative improvement, you have to regulate that which excludes the risk, instead of a job in which non-governmental organisations can participate as shareholders and non-governmental organisations can be a process of feeding non-governmental organisations and extra funds. It's serious. I remember having us in the past, and I think it is a very serious matter. The second point I would like to raise concerns Mr Vernardakis' amendment, in essence, Minister, the abolition of outsourcing in the public sector. I told you yesterday that it is extremely problematic to address the problems of administration with the creation of another state, criticising the two special secretariats and working groups, which the draft law regulates. I extended Mrs Christodoulopoulos' criticism. And it comes today that the final derivative of this legislative work is, ladies and gentlemen, the death of modernization in public administration. That's it. Removal of outsourcing means a path for simulations. You do not understand, because it has a legal aspect - I am not saying that you have no political understanding - but what was first done at the Ministry of Health and is now expanding everywhere is a wound to public administration. It's a real wound from which he'll be very late to recover. Because I remember now as a scientist to monitor how difficult it was to get through to outsourcing and convince my own political space that then mighty players had to open up the public. The proposals to modernise the administration today want people with qualifications to be promoted at its highest levels by the National School of Public Administration, with a change of procedure. In addition, general managers should be recruited from outside the administration as long as they are experienced and qualified. Here you will close off outsourcing for major functions of the administration where it really specializes in 100% and under conditions that will be raised in the courts. What's "for emergencies"? Cleanliness is an emergency? Look at it. Yesterday the special secretariats - and another state - do not need - today the death of outsourcing, i.e. getting services from the private sector. An effort that, with such great difficulty, has brought these cracks of bureaucracy to public administration, you are abolishing it. Since I referred to this at the Ministry of Health, I would just like to say a phrase, because in the light of the amendments, the Ministry of Health has again made a speech here today. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the journalists who will enter the earth, it is not the politicians who are all for death, and we have not killed them so long, and now there are the cancer patients and the workers. I'm not saying what dialogue is. I am an experienced man, and I can understand who is right and who is wrong, less right, less unfair and who disagrees with an amendment with the substance, with its type, but the depreciation of a social partner so crucial to people's lives, but also with the life of the administration is unacceptable and we denounce it as a Democratic Incorporation. No-one has the right to offend workers, no right, especially when they have been speaking demagogically in their name for so many years. Fourthly and lastly. It concerns a matter in general, not the Minister, but it concerns her as a member of her government. Today we had a new Cresson of State's statement. I call him from last year 'Minister of Propaganda', not to personally raise him, but to tell him that he is wasting his political capital - a young man, a young person in politics - and comes to politics with a reasonable interctorate star. Do you know how many of these we've seen, who come under the best conditions and disappear after, why do they think that during their term of office they own everything and they'll do it all? They're all slaughtering, all stabbing? Both executive and legislative power and judicial function, everything! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] This man in the crescendo of this logic of a star that seems to be not long-term - I wish him the opposite, but I politically support his behaviour - he told us things. But last night, and today, and today and always the co-conciliation card, i.e. we other political forces, are a set of fools, which we will be sympathetic to. On Wednesday evening I ask you to agree, on Friday I bring you an amendment to 'decide and order', I want to do my own channels, I want to do what I want and because I want to do so, so is it, whether you are a judge, and if you are a judge, I will blackmail you in the face of your decision. That's not how it works. Calm down! Consent with Mr. Pappas, no one gives it. The House at the Conference of Presidents has a chance of consensus, and yesterday it emerged. It was a different Conference of Presidents, ladies and gentlemen. We and the Potami - and this is what I am closing down, Mr President, and thank you, it is still thirty seconds - deferral. The New Democracy has participated in this, as I think the Centro Association. We asked for a postponement. It wasn't accepted. We voted. We and the river, what were we talking about? We were talking about postponing the appointment of an administration in the PSE until the Council of State came to its decision. In the New Democracy, you, colleagues, have said more. That's where we came in, but you changed your position. This morning in the briefing, ladies, what did I see? That the New Democracy said this and the other anti-population parties, that is, the ones that gave birth to the line, it's like we watched her. I'm addressing the river. Mr Barriott, I address you. We need to work together. And we must work together in this House, we must make a single parliamentary group, so that we can respond to all this attempt by bi-partisanism, small bi-partisanism, and leave us aside. He's not gonna make it. However, on the subject of society as a whole and not our parties, I have one thing to say: the consensus will be seen when the Council of State decides, in other words in a few days' time, and will not be the case with Mr Pappa, it will be the parliamentary forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u293	SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Mandas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u294	However, I must say that the parliamentary procedure is of interest. Mr Barriots has now moved to the building of the Democratic Partnership. Mr President, you will allow me to take some more time, because I did not speak at all yesterday and I would like to confuse my speech as quickly as I can. Ladies and gentlemen, this week I would say that as a SYRIZA parliamentary group we feel that we have done two very important things, one we have completed it, the other we are completing it today. I am talking about the special research and innovation account, an innovative intervention in itself, which gives young scientists critical potential. And today we are taking an even stronger, more innovative and stronger step by voting for the bill on social and solidarity economy. I think it is a strong signal in society, and that remains - and this is the challenge - to be able to go to every region, every municipality, every place, so that we can show it as an institutional framework for new opportunities and to be able, with examples, to inspire people, citizens, so that they can get into this project. So what does that law do? I think it is not a surplus, I would say, to repeat some basic points, some crucial points. We know that this field was indeed initiated by Law 4019/2011. It was a positive first attempt, we have said it, and we have to say it again and again. However, it was unable to do so, at least, to the extent that expectations existed. So, what's going on today? First of all, it was, I would say, limited to the level of the vulnerable and vulnerable groups. There it worked in some other works very small. With this law, we are very widening the scope of the social economy. First of all, with the workers' association, which did not exist at Law 4019/11, a social undertaking which, as a minimum, will have three individuals and will, indeed, be able to provide an opportunity which was not in place before and which is of course of concern - I will say below - workers in companies that are likely to go bankrupt, in areas that are going through a particular crisis, etc. One is that. The second is that it divides the COMCOMs into two categories, these COMESES for the inclusion of vulnerable and vulnerable groups - by extending these groups too - and of course also to COMES for collective and social benefit. These changes enable multi-faceted legal entities to participate in this process, because the legal form does not have a decisive role, but the way each legal person operates. What's that way? It is a new way, it is a way that does not apply to the private sector, which does not apply to the public sector. It is a democratic function, a member - one vote within the general assembly - is to apply restrictions on the distribution of profits, 35% of profits is shared among workers, 5% of profits is maintained as a reserve in the company, and the rest is being invested in creating new jobs and extending the business's activities. In the draft law, the Social Economy Fund, which collects all resources from national, Community and private investment, is set up through an effective and flexible scheme to finance this sector of social economy... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, please give me several more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u295	When you say "sufficient", how much do you want, Mr. Manda?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u296	I think I'll take ten minutes, along with the teratology, teratology...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u297	Oh, no, no, excuse me. We're not going to take it that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u298	Seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u299	Another seven minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u300	Uh, I don't have time to say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Mada, no, it can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u302	I'll try to finish in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u303	Anyway, go ahead and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u304	Good. A Special Secretariat for Social and Solidarity Economics is set up and a clear transparent framework is established for the cooperation of these bodies with the public, with OTA bodies and others. I think it stands out within this that the functioning of the COMCOMPs, these bodies, through the proportion of workers and members with the enlargement of the COMPAs, which includes beyond the groups already in existence - victims of domestic violence, refugees and asylum seekers, etc. - and with other restrictions and frameworks which it sets out, I think it really opens up a very important opportunity in this area. A number of criticisms have been heard in relation to the bill, which, of course, is generally accepted from most aspects of the House. One criticism - and I would like to refer to it - is from the JRC. It's the critique...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u305	If everyone else agrees. Only we are opposed, as in the Memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u306	I don't want to say anything. Others, Thanasis, now and who else is similar. Anyway, I'll leave it. I'm not saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u307	Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u308	I'm not saying anything, no. I'm talking about the JRC. I'm not talking about others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u309	Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u310	I say, I'm not talking about others. Mr. Lambroulis will be after me soon. I say, therefore, that this criticism, which could be based on a general level, omits the following: We have never claimed, nor do we have such theoretical approaches, that such intervention changes the system. In case. However, in the specific phase of the situation in our country, it helps and can potentially help - because the challenges as I said are ahead - decisive in terms of collectiveness and creativity in triggering and mobilising citizens, people, young people, unemployed, scientists, etc. to enter this sector, which, through its operation and its performance, can seal - even though it occupyes a small part of the economy - in fact also give a direction and an inspiration. The only inspiration, in other words, that there may be, is the inspiration of a system that we can talk too much about, which will come in a number of specific ways? We can also talk about this again. But now what do we do? I am sorry that this criticism has come to say that the most insidious plan for the integration of workers into capitalism is being implemented. I don't think it's on a real basis. Secondly, there is another criticism, which comes from other aspects, which concerns the structures and what we are creating within the bill itself. I think that both the answers given to the establishment of the two special secretariats and all the answers given to the administrative organisation - if you like - of the functioning of the law in practice - I am referring also to the solidarity economy and the special secretariat for the Roma - I think they are dismantling any objections. You are barely doing anything if you do not actually put special secretaries and special people, which is horizontal actions. It's no different! If there's any other way I can hear him. So far, I haven't heard. Only criticism that through this we will - supposedly - make - the state of SYRIZA I have heard. I conclude, Mr President, by making a reference to two - three more general issues of topicalism, I would say. Before that - I am sorry, I have missed it - I would like to say that we have, perhaps at the last minute, tabled three colleagues, an amendment concerning the criteria and their modulation for the recruitment of staff in the funded actions, basic goods structures, community centres, homeless structures of the NSRP 2014-2020. It is an amendment which is similar, but with a little different - I would say - and more precise wording with Mrs Christophilopoulou - and I must say it - regarding the criteria which she is trying to address the problem that is created in these structures, that is to say, the possibility of mobilising additionally for workers in these structures, which, after three extensions of national resources, no longer can finance this real offer that people have in this area. I shall close, Mr President, by making a very brief reference. And I'm sorry about the time - but I didn't talk yesterday - I'll be closed right away, We're in a no doubt a turning point. We can all - I mean every political force - treat it in its own way. I think they're out of place and time, really, approaches to destructiveness. As out-of-place and time are sucess story approaches, to be clear. We are at a difficult turning point that can, under certain conditions, give us a serious chance of restoring the economy. I think we are now in the area of relative stabilisation. That's all the sizes. There are risks, there are precarious risks, there are risks, but I think we are on this road. It is true, I will say, at least regrettable, in this field, that genuine interventions and efforts are being made to halt this course, allegedly in the name of democracy and allegedly in the name of the independence of institutions. I'm not saying anything else, but I'm going to say that. To tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what prevented us from forming the National Broadcasting Council yesterday regardless of any development of the meeting of the Council of State? What prevented it, but what can anyone think about? Because the National Broadcasting Council is a constitutional requirement for it to be formed. It is not up to and should not be charged with one or other decision of the Council of State. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I think your purposes are clear. It is a lyric reaction to an effort that can be judged by anyone as he wants, but it has a result, an inconsistent competition that brought revenues to the public, which sets order in the television scenery. It doesn't solve all the problems, it's obvious, but it's a very serious start. Ladies and gentlemen, the Opposition, do not identify yourself with aspects and with points of view and with aspirations and interests which must remain outside this process, I mean the procedure of Parliament and any public procedure. I am once again appealing from this Step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr. Christos Manda. Mrs Antonopoulou has the floor for one amendment, as I have heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, the amendment is accepted. I would also like you to give me the opportunity to say that in the text of the legislative improvements we recommend the following corrections: In Article 14(3), point (a) shall be deleted: ‘and the extent of the responsibility of its members’. From Article 15(2), which has now become Article 16, the phrases shall be deleted: 'in any case' and 'every part of a cooperative'. The text of Article 15, now Article 16(5), is deleted: ‘Application for membership of the ESCB’. Finally, the first subparagraph of Article 19, now made in Article 20, shall be deleted from paragraph 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u313	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u314	Yes, Mr Katsotis, I hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u315	You said the services would gather all the changes that have been made to the numbering of the articles in order to be able to monitor the legislative changes made by the Minister. So far, they have not been given, and we cannot monitor these changes that have been made. I beg your pardon, that is, but we cannot follow that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u316	Madam Minister, I think that Mr Katsotis is perfectly reasonable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u317	The services are preparing them, but what I have tabled now is a completely retirement issue. It's editorial corrections. These are improvements which are editorial. Also, every time I make a change I say: 'This is the article that is now being made...'. So you can from the previous day, when I say 'Article 19 that will become 20', at least temporarily follow it. I apologise, of course, for this delay, but there is nothing we can do. The services are working to get them ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u318	We hope that the services will prepare for the new regulation in good time so that the House can monitor. Mr Panagiotopoulos, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try not to exceed six minutes. I might need one, two more minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it imperative, before I make my main position, to express from this Step my grief for death this morning by the Regional Director of East Macedonia and Thrace George Pavlidis. He was an excellent man, a worthy and wise - and this is particularly important in our days - political leader. His death is a loss, clearly, to our place, not only to the region he served. I would like to express my warmest condolences to his family. I'm coming to the bill now. It is not much more pleasant than the situation there. I would like to say, Minister, that I strongly protest, not to you personally, to the government as collective. I have first been appointed a Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy and you have turned me into an assistant rapporteur, running up, working out amendments, and seeing what we are going to say. In fact, our rapporteur is not missing because she handed over the weapons, but because she had an obligation and had to leave. However, all these amendments with the speed and the sluggishness that have been put forward are, first of all, unfair to this bill. He's wrong with this bill in this very rough way. Of course, it is, I would say, a common attitude to the legislative work of the government, but the bill is not wrong with this curiosity. I would say that straightforwardness and formality are not principles that you very much like, gentlemen of the government. But such a thing? The Prime Minister said "we will upset you in legality". Some have realized that you're going to shake us into sloppyness. That's what you're doing so far. That's what I understand. We have thirteen ministerial amendments, one withdrew, that is, twelve. I would like to make more general positions on the issues that are running, but my main intervention will have to do with some amendments, to which our position needs to be explained. In the meantime I have to make a comment, I think it is essential, for the current positioning of the EBRD, that the deficit will seem to be higher for 2015 and the surplus smaller. This, you know, involves, among other things, additional measures in the near future. As also, in my view, this cannot have any impact on the debate on the preliminary draft budget, which is being held in the Committee on Economic Affairs, in the same building. It cannot have any effect on this country's economic sizes by ELSTAT, unfortunately. Mr Pappa also has - I think - so much exhaustion of the debate. I do, and I think I need to make a comment. Yesterday, she thanked me for treating him softly with the expressions I used. I am sorry, first of all, I have not learned that in the House we should be able to stand up against each other with native expressions. I don't think that's the norma. But from that point on, I can't understand how he realized I was soft with him when I pretty much told him he was responsible for destroying the Constitution. Is that a soft character? So easily, can a public man treat him? And on this occasion I should like to reiterate the New Democracy's position on the establishment of the National Broadcasting Council. The National Broadcasting Council is under the Constitution the body responsible for regulating the broadcasting landscape and the issue of licensing. This responsibility, which I have just spoken about, has been overhauled and destroyed by a law, which actually destroyed the Constitution. I don't know any laws to destroy the Constitution, with my little legal education, but I don't think every citizen has such an opinion. So we said yesterday that if the government restores the institution under the Constitution, that is to say if it gives it the power, which Mr Papapas took, to regulate the broadcasting landscape, then we are discussing everything and coming to the debate with all good will. But now, taking part in the work of the committee responsible, when the ERR is essentially responsible for authorising regional channels alone - because the central authorities are licensed by the Pappa law - and imposing a fine, I beg your pardon, but that is what I think it is unfair to our role and our institutional status here. And we won't collide in this game. Now time is running out, and I have to get into the bill. However, I will only make one comment on Mrs Fotio and what she said about the Roma Secretariat. We are skeptical in setting up additional special stamps in the belief that, in any case, they are the creation of additional structures in the public sector. But I wonder, according to her reasoning, whoever is negative in setting up the Roma Special Secretariat is, is negative in resolving the Roma issues? Is that it? I didn't get it. I may want to settle matters and help them, but I do not want to want to say that - and this is how it is - a burden on the administration. That is not exactly the reasoning and badly viewed by the Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Very quickly, Mr President, I shall end with your tolerance. I won't answer. The previous speaker, if I am not mistaken, spoke to the SYRIZA Parliament for about thirteen minutes, took advantage of the change of people to the Bureau. In any case, show me some minor tolerance. As regards Amendment No 713, we are voting in favour of extending the term of office of auxiliary staff to social welfare centres. It will be extended until 30-9-2017. There are, however, some problems here. One problem is to establish precisely what is exceptionally necessary, to determine the exact number of contracts, as is the recruitment process for permanent staff. The amendment here speaks of subsidiary staff, but it is a question of recruiting permanent staff. And, of course, here I must say that rather than this arrangement, a future subject will be created - a job for workers, given that those whose contract of employment is being extended will probably establish rights to be recruited as private contractors of indefinite duration. I mean, there's gonna be work to do. On the other hand, with regard to Amendment 717, 'Validation of transport by waterway and air provided for under the coordination of the EAEC', the EAEC will continue to be compensated by the EEA, but now also by the public and the insurance fund for the transport project. It enables him to conclude transport contracts with private companies as well. This led workers to protest about the privatization of the instrument. I do not think it is exactly like this, but the question that arises is exactly how will the former regime change and what has happened so far. For example, there is a requirement to approve the new contract by the Minister of Health. I wonder which Minister for Health will refuse to transfer a severely ill or severely injured patient with the structures of the EMCDDA. Who's gonna do it? And if a Minister refuses to do so, he will obviously expose and expose - I would say - dramatically the administration of the EAW that took this decision. I think some explanations can be given to these. I'm moving as fast as I can. As far as the amendment on the conditions for the movement of personnel of Armed Forces is concerned, we will vote'represents' because we consider it to be proof of inconsistency between the members of the Government, which should have already taken care, by issuing the relevant presidential decree, because this has not been adopted so far. We don't think that's how it works. With regard to Amendment 719, ‘Possibility of concluding fixed-term contracts for cleanup, feeding and maintenance of public structures’, we cannot vote in favour of it. We'll explain why. That's a product of ideoscopy. It is obviously against the private sector, if any, by some mistaken or abusive behaviour of private sector contractors who have employed cleaning staff. But it's not a question of going to the other end and removing them completely. It also demonizes entrepreneurship and opens the way to the creation of a new army of contractors under the hostage of the administration or here of the government. This proposal has not been costed, but it will obviously cost a lot. Of course, at the moment, there are also many legal disputes concerning contracts between contractors and public bodies. From there on there there will also be substantial issues. For example, in the security contract, what will a school do? Will he hire guards? Will S.H.I.E.L.D. come in? Who's gonna train them? Who's gonna take care of their equipment? How will they take up this sensitive, definitely, and hard work? Will private companies, in the end, be acting side-by-side or black - if you want - in a way, and therefore, the spirit of the legislator, in this case of the government, with which we disagree anyway? I believe that such problems will arise before us and I am making this provision. With regard to Amendment No 721 on the suspension of payment of loans from unemployed people and the regulation of late payments, etc., there is an obvious social need to regulate the case of those people whose living conditions and therefore the conditions for repayment of their obligations have changed dramatically in recent years. That is the spirit, which we endorse. We note from there that the problem is not solved definitively. And, of course, I would remind you of the assessment made by the General Accounting Office of the State that there will be a loss of revenue for the public sector of about 40 million and a definitive solution will have to be found. The amendment with number 722 for the extension of the duration of the IAS support service contract - IKA. Here's something I don't like at all, as this contract of the Integrated Informatics System, the OPS, is extended until 31-12-2017. But we know that 1-1-2017 will enter into force the Single Institution for Social Security, EKKA, which has launched a new competitive procedure for its own Integrated System of Informatics. What's going to happen here? Will we have the procedure for the IKA OP, while running the IKA OP? I don't like it at all, and I think it's a model of carelessness, not to say epilepsy. I would also like to say about Amendments Nos 725 and 726, which we certainly want to vote in favour. However, we have a question, because they really are being voted on in an extremely rough way, and indeed they are confronted with a typical but very important condition on the subject of signatures. Here, Minister, there is no signature of the appropriate minister, Mr Katrugalos, who is missing from Greece as far as I know. It is not just your signature to table this amendment inadmissible. It also needs the signature of the Minister. Only together with the Minister, who is absent and therefore cannot accept the amendment. Finally, you need to learn to legislate properly! As I told you, the bill is wrong. We are voting in favour of this in principle. We will place ourselves on the articles, which are too much that are not worthy of vote, not only from the surrounding debate on the surrounding atmosphere, but also from this clipboard way of legislating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u320	Thank you Mr Panagiotopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Mr Athanasios Paphilis, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u321	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Pafile, would you allow me to give Mrs. Antonopoulou the floor to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u323	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u324	After Mr. Paphie, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u325	Good. You will receive the floor after Mr. Palai. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u326	SYRIZA is so sad! Mrs. Caracosta was depressed about what Aleka Pappagha said. And Mr. Maddash is sad at the criticism of the JRC. Don't worry! You have allies: New Democracy, PASOK, Potami, Union of Centres, OECD, European Union, BSE, European Parliament. They're all with you! All of these support your 'innovative' ideas, which will also lead to socialism! Mercy! They're gone! At one time, you are asking yourself: Another thing is to get out and say that we are doing this, which is a component of the capitalist system itself, which is being promoted by all international imperialist organisations, and another to get out here and dress up with a left-wing policy for the management of the urban state, which is promoted by the urban state itself and capitalists and which is supported by hands and feet by all the imperialist associations. But these are your services: demolition. And we say a few words, Mr Manda, because that is what you are doing: dress with progressive, supposedly cloak and left - nothing to do with it! - the so-called'social economy', which all capitalist countries promote at all lengths and backs. And they are doing this to help exactly the main purpose of the capitalist economy: to expand the reproduction of capital. And because these may seem a little theoretical, so let's see: it has been the social economy, as it is said for many years now - because, once again, this is a fraud, it is a different form of capitalist economy, it is - in too many countries and indeed in a wide range of countries. It shall apply. What are the results? Because here you're going to drive us crazy in the end. What, for example, happened in Britain? Let's see. Aleka Papariga read them. The Montragon operation in the Basque country has eighty-five thousand workers. So, you, too, Minister, who are educated, get a great deal of goodwill from those of the eighty-five thousand workers? Are they taking advantage of them or not? Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u327	They're taking advantage of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u328	In a democratic way!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u329	They're taking advantage of them. So we have capitalist production relationships. Who's taking advantage of them? Some who have these businesses. And where did they end up? Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u330	I'll answer you, Mr. Paphie, when I speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u331	All right, come in. Just don't say they don't exploit the eighty-five thousand workers. Say all the rest. In Great Britain there is the 'HE COOPERATION' consumer cooperative, which has a hundred and twenty-three thousand employees. What do the people with relationships work? With socialist? Are they paid according to what they offer or exploit hen? Is part of the general gain? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u332	Did we get to socialism now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u333	That's what we're talking about so the workers can hear. So what are these cooperatives? Where do they contribute in total? In the capitalist economy. And where they ended up in Latin America, we told you before. Besides, you know, this story now, that's going on here some comparisons, is to ask: But do they not have their god? Okay, you've pilgrimized, you've been subjugated, you've undertaken to manage and get out of capitalism by the deadlocks. Now that's what you say as government. But there are also some limits to what is said. For example, certain equations are made unintelligible. Mrs. Caracosta, I don't know, is she a contractor? What's he trying to prove? He went to equilibrium, compare this so-called'social economy' to capitalism with the Soviet Union. Well, she does not know, even if she disagrees - why had a ideological father said that we should deny not only the October Revolution but also the French Revolution, Bertinoti had said it officially, and was written - what was the October Revolution? Was it any kind of pass in socialism with any cooperative organizations and such? It was a social revolution and even armed. It was overthrowing the capitalist system, overthrowing the power of capital and building socialism, which raided the sky. He gave unprecedented things socialism, with its mistakes, with its weaknesses, opening up new streets in history that never existed, without any experience. And why did he fall? I don't want to blow it, but I'll say it at the end. He fell because he violated the laws of socialist construction, because he began to do what you do, borrowed by capitalism. That's why he fell and was overturned. There was no social revolution. It's overturned from inside. This is the second historical peculiarity, because while after the 1950s it was found in new problems and had to solve them on the basis of socialism, based on the theory of Marxism - Leninism, it tried to solve them by means of methods borrowed by capitalism. And it finally turned out to be overturned. So don't compare it to one another. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I have no more to say. So at least stop these ideological stunts and this ideological arbitrary. That's why we say you're offering the best services to the system, because you dress this economy with a left cloak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u334	The guy you're talking about is a stunt. We're not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u335	You say it's something different from the others. Inside capitalism is a different economy! In practice, what is happening is that workers are being corrupted or desperately threatened. And those with good intentions, volunteers and other people, anyway, end up in the end or give up or give up in a delusion that the working class can slowly dominate from the bottom - that's what Mrs Karakosta said more or less, not to tell everyone - to understand that she has power, while a road exists. Historically no other way is documented, except the revolutionary one, that is, the overthrowing of the system itself and the plunging of power by those producing wealth. That is why our criticism so much hurts. Because it reveals to workers - by others what will hurt you, since everyone agrees - what is the real dimension of the so-called social economy and what is your role in dressing it up and creating illusions for workers? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u336	Thank you. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Urania Antonopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u337	Mr. Panayotopoulos has left, and I don't know if he's listening to me right now. I would just like to remind him that on the basis of article 45(3), as Deputy Minister, I shall replace the Minister of Labour in his absence. That's not agreed, so I'm signing instead. Beyond my signature, I've signed for Mr. Katrugalo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Minister. Mr Katerina Iglezi has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Panagiotopoulos reminded me of the following parliamentary history: Summer of 2014, summer part of the House, on the eve of the 15th century, discussion of today's n.4280. I was a rapporteur at that time on behalf of the opposition. A hundred and seven amendments, of which, if I remember correctly, the Minister accepted more than eighty and even at the last minute. The President read the articles for vote and the Minister accepted amendments. That is why, Mr Panayotopoulos and gentlemen of the Opposition, the next time you talk about how we legislate and criticize us, you know that, apart from our personal memory, there are also the archives of this House. So let's come to the bill. Colleagues and colleagues, we are debating today a bill that I believe is extremely important and important, because it is coming to reflect the practices of solidarity and social self-energy that have emerged in recent years of the crisis in our country. The economic crisis, which we are experiencing, is at the same time a crisis of the concept of economy, and that is why it is rapid to multiply the new definitions of the economy: social, solidarity, collaborative, participatory, etc. These new definitions reflect the agonizing efforts of society to give a new meaning to the concept of the economy. More and more of our fellow men are in front of the deadlocks that market economy and neoliberalism create. They realize that for them there is no longer a chance of survival except outside the market economy. The current economic system can no longer cover the tolerable living, and they must act immediately to produce a living and breathing space for themselves. The terms of the social and solidarity economy therefore bring together the diverse formal and informal economic structures which are not part of either the state or private sector and are shared in the third sector of the economy, social utility and benefit, i.e. in the social and solidarity economy. The social and solidarity economy can be another distinct model which completely challenges the system of the market economy and competition, both in the field of production and in the distribution and consumption sectors. In this light, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is important, because it can set the conditions for organising better and effectively developing a truly alternative economy, as a way out of the neoliberal market. Such initiatives lay the foundations for turning to new collective orientations, creating a competitive design in the neoliberal model of the market economy. This is necessary because, in our view, the social and solidarity economy is not working to facilitate neoliberal expansion, but to provide a way out, based on the principles of democracy, collective action and solidarity. The institutions of the social and solidarity economy form a potential movement that embodies hope for a radical transformation of society. Social and solidarity economic operators are active in areas where the State and the market have abandoned or partially or inadequately participated. The fact that this bill opens up the field of social and solidarity economics, in addition to the social cooperatives known to date and to all other, multi-faceted legal entities, I believe that it is important enough for the real development of the third sector of the economy. The principles of democratic functioning, the way in which profits are distributed, as described, the reinvestment in creating new jobs, are the criteria for engaging in the social economy in criteria rather than legal form. I also consider it extremely important that this new law introduces the Social Economy Fund, which consists of resources from national, Community and private investment. The Fund will support all social economy actors who are engaged in productive activities and do not have access to the banking system. The projection is too important to develop this form of entrepreneurship. At the same time, by limiting the percentages of gross revenues of an ESDP of collective and social benefit from public money - they cannot exceed 65% of the revenues - it ensures to a large extent the avoidance of the creation of State-owned enterprises or the development of customer relations. Furthermore, the introduction of a new legal person, the cooperative of employees, i.e. a partnership of at least three natural persons, who are co-operating in order to survive their work, is a truly modern arrangement for the Greek legal order. This is a regulation which can promote the synergy between the workers who are bankrupt, problematic or abandoned, very small or individual enterprises, who choose to engage in cooperative schemes, but also young people who want to stay in the country and fight for decent work. The social initiative can play a leading role in the country's productive, social and ecological reconstruction, and this bill gives it many degrees of freedom and a broad scope of action. A new start is, then, and I hope that after the vote on this bill there will be the response it deserves from society to lead us to a truly active third sector of the economy in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u340	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. At a time when we are talking about social solidarity and aid that we want to offer to various groups of fellow citizens, the government does not even discuss the amendment brought by the Golden Dawn so that the five hundred seventy employees in the Star can escape after the sale of the business. It wasn't even discussed. At the same time, while the government is supposedly being cut off to help our fellow citizens, in a particular group such as the third parties, not only is there any plan that helps people withstand these difficult times, but instead the government brings laws and takes what is left over. In a group - I repeat - people who have children are trying to keep the Greek nation alive. These people, however, while in all the other countries of Europe the state is helping them, unfortunately in Greece they are treated as children of a lower god. So this government put a 3.7% marker on the allowances paid to third parties. Why is that? And why isn't he withdrawing from the government? Also, the taxfree these people had was abolished. And rightly there was duty free in this category of our Greek compatriots. And they also started to pay and take them to the rugs of HISBIA, while these people so far did not pay HISBIA. So, is there not a move by the government that aims to give Greek citizens a message so that families do not give birth to them? Is it not a pure question that should be discussed and immediately removed from the injustice that exists in third families? This toward knowledge and compliance. And here the Greek Parliament should take care of these things and not be cut for the rights and interests of every illegal immigrant. Because that's all he cares about. We have already said that our amendment has not even been discussed. This shows humanism and how you really care to serve our Greek fellow citizens. And here it is no coincidence that the "Greek" Parliament legislates against Greek citizens at the expense of Greek society. Any of you were not in the seat of the Greek Parliament but were outside and lived as a worker, would rebel with the measures that this government brings. But because you're not out in society and you're in these benches, you're voting for them. The same thing that you condemned until a few months ago and which you will continue to condemn when you come out of Parliament's headquarters and go back to live in Greek society as ordinary workers. Some of you, because some of you are children of the party tube and you haven't worked so far and you're not going to work from now on. In conclusion, I should like to stress that because the Greek society is resisting - and fortunately there are reflexes to Greek citizens - and because we are not tolerated all the things that are happening on Saturday at 14 noon at noon at the metro stops in the Botanic, there will be a large protest which the inhabitants of the areas of Cologne, Botanic and Agaleo have announced against the building of the mosque. So there will be Golden Dawn. There, therefore, every Greek citizen who wants to resist the Islamisation of our country is invited to attend, to express once again that the Greeks cannot tolerate the Islamization of our country. The Golden Dawn will be there and we will ensure that these laws do not cross into Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u342	We are going with Mr Dimitris Konstantopoulos from the Democratic Alliance, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the social economy was guaranteed by the PASOK Government in 1999 with Law 2716/1999. It is a law by which the Social Cooperatives of Limited Responsibility were defined, whose purpose was to integrate our fellow people into the labour market with psychosocial problems. Subsequently, Law 4019/2011 again from the PASOK Government, Minister, updated the legislation on social economy and social entrepreneurship. Today, the national institutional framework for the social economy includes European programmes such as the 'EQUAL' programme, aimed at increasing the employment of vulnerable groups and accessing the labour market. Let me remind you here that in PASOK governments, several insurance measures and many tax reliefs, allowances and pension rights have been introduced for vulnerable groups. Many of these, of course, have today been abolished by the current government, such as the three-tiers' allowances, the laundry benefits, the supplementary pensions of the HEIs, the pensions of the elderly. Today, no discrimination, no social sensitivity! You're talking, Minister, constantly about your proud, cruel negotiation. Let me remind you here, then, that the result of this negotiation is the abolition of the CSR for three hundred and ninety thousand low pensioners, pensioners of EUR 400 and 500, who are currently losing the EUR 230 of the CSR. The ECHR - to remind you - was also established by the PASOK Government in 1996. Finally, this 'bad' PASOK' with so many great social offers, today what is going on? He's right. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is advocating that it has brought the House a bill on the social economy. So I remember the humanitarian crisis law, and I ask: Where is the free current in ninety thousand families? Where's the free water in fifty-eight thousand households? Where's the free tickets to the public transport? What did we see? Just crumbs. We saw the ticket increasing in the means of transport and lowering the heating allowance. In 2014, for the first time, 450m euros were allocated from the primary surplus, with six hundred thousand beneficiaries. Today the government has been proclaiming a sum of EUR 108 million that has been given, which is essentially the half of the previous government. You were talking about the social income of solidarity of EUR 900 million. What proved to be the case? It turned out to be a fiasco, Minister! Initially, "frozen", then you restored it by another name and now you're talking about pilot application. So that's the famous weaker protection net? The conclusions, of course, yours. Gentlemen of government, you think, I have the impression, the state as a spoil. All you care about is building your own party state with the aim, of course, of anchor to power. That is why, in every bill that comes to Parliament, there is provision for setting up positions before the House. Two new secretariats, one new address and seven new departments with thirty-nine employees, are therefore also set up in this bill. And here is the paradox: instead of strengthening existing services for the social economy, for the integration of the Roma, the government chooses to multiply structures. All this, ladies and gentlemen, costs EUR 700,000 plus the cost for the working groups that will be created. Gentlemen of the government, the bet of all of us must be different. The bet must be what we are going to do about ingenuity. The population in Greece in 2015 decreased by 6%. Inheritability is essentially the most important national problem. Greece of 2050 will be one of the oldest countries in Europe. It is therefore necessary to support the family. But you, with your practices, are destroying the multitude family, the disabled family, the family with unemployed members based on low pensioners. You call that a social policy! The unemployed today are growing with geometric progress, and you call that a left policy! Young people leave abroad and you take them off the ticket yourself. Greek entrepreneurship is restructured through the bulk sale of red loans and you say that left! Act, finally, our proposal. Give borrowers the opportunity to precede foreign funds, give borrowers to buy their loans. The loans should go to households rather than to the bank's 'dollars'. Gentlemen of the government, get rid of your obsessions to create a party mechanism. Finally, consider the real governance of the country. Otherwise, the wise people will be confirmed, which says that anyone who sows winds reaps storms! In conclusion, I would like to say that you have made a competition - a travesty for television licences, saying that you are really fighting the complexion. However, you have never given sufficient explanations and even after Florence's infamous report, there are many questions, such as: Why have you bypassed the PSE? Why did you artificially limit the number of licences to four? Now, you are actually blackmailing both justice and institutions, mocking the Greek people, setting up spectacles. The Prime Minister has been tempted, ladies and gentlemen, to prejudge the decision of the S.H.E. And now you are running around with time, so that the process can proceed with the closure of the rest of the channels and that hundreds of unemployed workers can be employed, thus creating a feat. Gentlemen, for all the above, your answer is given by historian Gregory Gregory Campourglou: "Net thing is not what has been resolved, but what has not been redeemed". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u344	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way in which this House is organized and operated, thirty one students and students and two teachers from the 3rd General Tripolis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform the students that they are following a parliamentary procedure, which is the debate and the vote of a bill, so that it becomes the law of the state. We are today on the second day that we are discussing the bill on the basis of which the vote will take place, so that it becomes the law of the state. We're on our way to the end of the process. Members are speaking, and perhaps the Minister, Mrs Antonopoulou, will also speak, and we will then proceed to the vote. Mrs. Jufi Merope, SYRIZA Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin because of the fact that my colleague was ahead of him, saying a word: 'Sir, prisoner, my mouth', as if this place has no memory and he does not know who the things have been managed since post-Civilisation. I am really amazed at both the style and the speech of the previous colleague. I'm moving on to the bill. From the suggestions made by the relevant Minister and from many previous positions, it has become clear that we are trying to develop the social and solidarity economy as an autonomous production activity, that is, as a third route that can produce goods and services, but on the basis of meeting social needs, outside the logic of expansive profitability. It is therefore a legislative initiative, which concerns many citizens and almost all the productive activities, but which gives a new dimension to the concept of cooperative, which has been lost by past practices - for which, unfortunately, the previous colleague has not mentioned it - with quality characteristics such as participation, democracy and codecision. Also important are the concern for the sustainability of the natural environment and the elimination of social inequalities, since a thousand, two hundred and fifty businesses, particularly in the agri-food sector, concern the integration, economic and social lives of people belonging to vulnerable and special groups. A special example of the area from which I come is the COMPA, the "Zagori of Solidarity", which was founded in 2015 by thirty inhabitants of the area who are engaged on a voluntary basis and without any social benefit. This activity concerns supporting growth, employment in this area of special young people, strengthening local production with respect to the consumer, the environment and sustainability, as well as creating a model of education and tourism beyond the current concepts and being positively opposed to the law, with some critical businesses to which I shall refer further. In innovations of the law, legal persons who can be active in this context are broadened, and the terms and conditions to be met for the designation and functioning of the legal persons as social and solidarity economic operators are laid down. In this context - because this is very important - there is the possibility of channelling funds of EUR 160 million, which, with conservative forecasts, can lead to the creation of thirty thousand new jobs, while the framework provides for and how profits can be reinvested or distributed to workers. Points that we could see in the next phase - and here is the critical position in the direction of further improving the institutional framework, so that the COMCOMs become a lever of economic and social recovery, especially in problematic areas and have been discussed - are the provision of tax incentives or exemptions to grant inert capital for use by the COMCOMs, such as uncultivated land for private or public, untapped buildings and industries or craft industries. In particular for mountain and island regions which are specific in many respects, secondary associations could be formed exclusively by the COMPAs in these regions, regardless of whether or not they meet the minimum number of ten, - since of course they are more than two - alternatively the associations of the COMPAs in these areas, should be carried out on criteria not geographically, but on criteria of relevance. In addition, we could discuss the provision for inclusion in the social and solidarity economy of the mutually beneficial foundations resulting from legacy, with the COMES of each region having a say and a role in managing the resources derived from them. Therefore, this draft law brings direct and indirect benefits, with a number of incentives or supportive measures, which can shape under preconditions - and it remains to be proven - a sustainable and healthy environment, providing a different pattern of labour, production and consumption, with the ambition to make the social and solidarity economy an essential pillar of the development of the Greek economy. A few words, even though they have been said, about the issue of the establishment of this Roma Secretariat. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the immediate social need which requires us to take action - and this has been said by the Minister - it is a duty of our country to the European Union, the fulfilment of which will pave the way for the disbursement of funds for the Roma, through the NRP and for this to be done, as it is necessary for various ministries to coordinate these actions, it is clear that it is necessary to set up this special secretariat as a coordinating body, without there being any financial burden. And now, you will allow me, in one and a half minutes, to say that this bill is part of a planned social strategy which has been expressed and with the social footprint of our first budget that has been characterised by BSE - and I think this is a title of honour for a left-wing government - as the most important redistribution in favour of weak social strata. Our aim of further strengthening the social state is reflected in the new budget which is being discussed in the relevant committees. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. With targeted interventions, social expenditure is being reinforced - and I regret what the previous colleague said - with 760 million for social solidarity income for people with very low incomes, much more than what has been spent in the past two years on the humanitarian crisis, with 300 million for health, education, welfare and 100 million for protecting the first home of vulnerable households. What does the New Democracy propose every day and calls through its Chief and democratic vigilance to the Greek people, from whom is it at risk? It proposes a reduction in taxation of 4.1 billion, which objectively opens up a huge "holes" in the financial landscape, which requires either a horizontal reduction in wages and pensions, an exit from the programme and a new memorandum or an equal reduction in social arrogance costs in hospitals, schools, allowances, and a return to social ruins. It is the covert policy of aggressive neoliberalism, which has unregulatedly implemented with PASOK and wants the New Democracy to regain with its attempt to rebuild it in power, across and in targeted propaganda, in our democratically-elected government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u346	Complete, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u347	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u348	But finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u349	Give me the opportunity to have the epilogue. We will resist, trying in difficult circumstances to explain our policy to the people with coolness and courage, as we have learned many years and will continue to fight for its change in capitalism today, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, which is the framework that we are called upon to fight in our little life without delusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u350	Thank you to Mrs. Merope Jufi, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Constantine Barkas, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for six minutes. Colleague, you have the floor with respect for time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u351	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Buckovski had said that the problem with the world is that smart people are filled with doubts while idiots are full of confidence. I say this because just now it was heard from the Step of the House that you would like, if you like, a reproduction of things, a reminder of things that have happened - and the children were here, unfortunately, have now gone - that happened in the previous years in our country, but forget to say the basic truth. The honourable Member, who made a historic retreat to the PASOK governments, forgot mainly two things: the first is for the recognition of the National Resistance and the second is for the trade union law, No.1264/1982. Everything else he said. Of course, he forgot to remember and remind us of the present and of the children, who listened to the meeting, what happened during their own governance, for armaments, for the various ministers, who are now in prison, for their colleagues and their colleagues, who are being prosecuted, for people who have been identified with the conflict, about how the country arrived here, about how we arrived in the 2008 crisis, about how we arrived in the 2010 memorandum. That's what he forgot. Memory was short. But unfortunately, for themselves, we don't have a goldfish memory. I would therefore like to remind you of a few things. They themselves are being taken away and, if you like, they confuse justice - in essence, overlaps with the role of justice - and they say that yesterday's decision of the Council. On the substance, it helps them or, if you like, favours them. I'm not a lawyer. Unfortunately, however, they do not recognize the decision of the S.H.E., they have not taken it in their hands, but they applaud for a possible decision of the S.E.E., trying to make sure that justice is done. Look, we're not gonna be the same with you. The Prime Minister did not come here, as the Chief of Staff Representation did, to make a fire speech for both the meeting of the Conference of Presidents and for the discussion of the S.H.E. which will take place next week. We won't be like you. We'll let justice work. But the gentlemen who go up here talking about the Pappa law are forgetting that the basic reasons for those who have appealed to the Council of State and not the substance of the issue of licensing have been accepted. We will tell you that something you did not do twenty-seven years, we will finish it. We're going to have a competition to clear the channels, which you twenty-seven years haven't done. Of course, we won't be like you. We won't defend the complication. We're going to go after her. We're gonna take her all the way to the end of it, so they can get through the fund sometime too. Let's go to the bill now. Unfortunately, Minister, I had to make these assumptions because they sound like hard things here from the Step of the House, but I want to go a little bit to your bill. Look at that. It is a bill, which PASOK wants once again - they are now called the Democratic Reconciliation, if you do not know it - to tell us that it brought this law to Parliament and that we bring the 2011 Act to Parliament. Unfortunately, they didn't stay to read. Many of their companions have done this, their older companions, but they have not sat down to read the law, have not sat down to see what the law says. You yourself have admitted - and well, everyone admits - that there were some things that were said in the old law of 2011, which was inactive for a period of five years - six years and has not been activated. We also come and help further to operate this law, to work the third pillar of the economy, so that, in fact, what we call'social economy', which in Europe covers 25% of the economic cycle of countries, we can deal with it and help all those projects which you, the former government of Samaras, are very hard to resolve, because you did not think that this pillar of the economy can help, but you always have in mind, as you have now, that only the private economy can solve such issues. I would remind you that this is a European cheque, which we do not have to cover, and in my view it should be. Well, you did not cover it, because you left it in the unavoidable, because within you there are the well-known Roma differences, whether we should help them and incorporate them into society as a whole or not. But I would remind you that this is a European check and we need to cover it. One is that. Secondly, there is the whole framework for how this General Secretariat will be covered by workers already in the relevant Ministry. And I don't understand where the continuation of the disinformation helps. We, thankfully for society, without you, will proceed to help the society as a whole, to help all those workers who, on your own account, have been on the road, who have paid for the crisis. So in this world, we will stand side by side and help them without you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr. Barkas. Mrs. Harula Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my position on the very important bill of social solidarity, I would also like to inform Mr Constantopoulos of the Democratic Alliance, which referred to the movement of the media, but also those who have been listening to us that the unemployed in Attica have for a long time been moved to 40% of the country's population, a measure which will be extended to Greece as well. So, in the very important bill, apart from the private and public sector, ladies and gentlemen, there is also the economic sector producing goods and services, the social solidarity sector, which is differentiated in terms of the public and private sectors, based on the following characteristics: its activities are developed and prioritised in meeting social needs and not only in profitability, and these activities are developed through collective democratic procedures for participation and decision-making. At this point it is important to mention the great value of the social economy, not only as a response to the economic crisis, but also as a response to the economic model, which promotes entrepreneurship as an activity only profitable, often through controversial or unsustainable practices. The social economy, which has been blossoming for decades in Europe and is now developing in Greece, offers vital services and goods. The potential for growth in the social solidarity sector, as I said before, has been taken into account in many countries, such as France, Italy, Spain, the United States, Canada, where thousands of businesses operate, some of which contribute to national GDP by up to 10%. In Greece, this sector is less than 1% and the vehicle for the development of the social solidarity economy is these cooperative schemes within a transparent environment, which supports the development of these productive projects. So what is the new institutional framework doing? It opens up the field of social solidarity, beyond what is known as COMES to date to all the multi-faceted legal entities. It establishes a transparent framework for public cooperation with the social solidarity institutions, defining the concession of the use of LGD I and B grades and public and social security bodies and the conclusion of tripartite contracts with the wider public sector and OTAs, for the study and execution of projects and programmes for the provision of social benefit services. It also forms the framework for facilitating economic cooperation between them and the creation of associations and social solidarity bodies for their collective representation. When, in a country like Greece right now, we have over a million unemployed, particularly young people, the social solidarity economy and synergy in general, which implies, in addition to other things, a means of relocating to society, away from isolation, the peculiarity that leads to the capitalist system, especially in crisis conditions. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the case of the days. The main issue, of course, these days are the issues of justice, the issues of television licences and the creation of the PSE. Let us, ladies and gentlemen, let justice do its job. The statements and interventions, which have been in place recently, especially from the Opposition, are many and we arrived yesterday to listen to Officerial Response to speak of suicidal tendencies in justice. Let us preserve, ladies and gentlemen, the institutions, not only for us, but also, in general, for the functioning of the democratic constitution in which we live. In the Parliamentary Republic, the opposition and even the military opposition have an institutional role, and indeed an important one. It must support and not blur the institutions, propose and at the same time exert constructive criticism. The effort made by the Qualified Opposition to involve institutional processes and to integrate them into its political overthrowing of the government, with its tiresome, of course, a day-to-day request for elections, does not contribute to the healthy political climate that our country needs today. That is, today, at the moment of the tough negotiation of the second assessment, at the time of the debate on the debt that is on the table within an unstable liquidity field, when really the faults on this issue are many, when new alliances are being created in Europe, when Europe is in a crisis of identity with the ghost of the far-right being deceived, the Opposition and, indeed, the Civic Opposition yesterday, while it has not objected to the people proposed by the President of the Parliament, for the composition of the PSE, finally voted against. Doesn't that seem highly contradictory? And I would say that in the current situation in the broadcasting landscape, as it is today, there is no need to have the PSE? In other words, this is what lawyers describe as 'prudential exercise of rights'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I shall be coming to an end. Ladies and gentlemen, the creation of the PSE is a constitutional requirement. Article 101a of the Constitution obliges political parties to find a solution for the independent authorities. We've solved four, we've found them consensually, and there's only the fifth on the PSE. They shall, in accordance with Article of the Constitution, constitute regulatory requirements. The Constitution is not only to indicate whether to give instructions or advice or still forbidden. It defines what is imposed, what is permitted. According to the French political Sebastian, the French politician of the French revolution, the Constitution is a body of mandatory rules, otherwise it is nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u354	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u355	Ladies and gentlemen, do you not hear the world, the society, which, through polling, which you so invoke, is in line with the need to restore legality in television frequencies? For the first time after twenty-seven years of lawlessness is lawful in this area. A message to investors, too, that the laws in this country now apply, are respected, there is no anarchy and of course the corruption bucket begins to pour out, which has been the case for many decades. So let us wait until we begin making statements. Let us wait for the decision of the Council of State, whichever decision is always respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u356	Thank you Mrs. Harula Kafantaris, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Christos Kelles, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u357	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a few words on the bill under discussion. The social and solidarity economy, or else the third sector of the economy, has been well known in our country for a long time. We are all aware of the case of the Cooperative of the Vineyards from the years of Turkish domination. In modern times, however, experience with cooperatives is not particularly positive. We all know the pathogens. A similar law exists since 2011, Law 4019. There is no political will from the parties, and that is what the project needs to achieve. Personally, I will be allowed to reserve some reservations, although our rapporteur, Mrs Vulture, has given some guidance on the best possible use of the law. I come to Article 53, which comes to regulate the outstanding debts of the EEA, and it does well. You do not, of course, because you believe it, but you do it under the pressure of the troika, which is why you are bringing it in the last minute. The purpose? We must take the EUR 1.7 billion that the market really needs and we will take it at the end of October, but on condition that all the overdue health debts have been paid. It is precisely your problem here, ladies and gentlemen of the Com munity. Everything you do is under pressure, compulsion, soul pain and ideology, and above all you don't have a plan, because your idealism is public free health. How are you going to apply it? You don't know. Can I give you a typical example? CEDEFOP. All the manipulations of Mr. Polakis in CEDEFOP were deemed illegal. Eighty-five employees in CEDEFOP and in intensive care units are unpaid at your own fault. Last winter, we mourned two hundred victims in intensive care units because of lack of beds. What happened? A year has passed, the vacant posts in ICUs by 50% remain vacant and winter is coming again. Didn't you do the same for the workers in the field of cleanliness, not just in the hospitals, but you expanded it to the entire public system? Pacts for two years without possibility of renewal, so you're firing them in two years. So what? You're holding them hostages, party hostages, poor workers. I now come to the amendment tabled today by Mr Paulakis for the EAEC. The shortages in staff and ambulances are large. Over a million miles have gone all the ambulances. In Attica, only sixty of the 20th total of Attica. From the 2012 ESRB contest, they only received ninety. The other ninety-six are gone. Mr Paulakis has promised last year the immediate reopening of the tender through the regions for the purchase of new ambulances and what did he do? Nothing at all. Not even redistribution. From areas where there are ambulances sitting, they did not bring them into areas where there are major deficiencies and at the same time blames the workers of the EAW for the ‘bothcannales’. This is because, in many cases, the EKRD workers - to tell the truth - are at risk of their lives too. I think you are familiar with the incidents that happened last Sunday in Thessaloniki, where the rescuers of the EKAV were found at the "Hippokrate" Hospital of Thessaloniki. The EKRD, ladies and gentlemen, had provided five helicopters since 1999. The last helicopter was trapped in September 2015 on a Minister of Health Mr. Polakis. Mr Paulakis himself then visited the AOCA Aerospace Base and I am conveying his statement to you. It expressed a clear desire for the head of the Ministry of Health to resolve the problems of the Aerospace Department and in particular to immediately initiate the procedures required for the repair and maintenance of these helicopters so that they can be put to the service of the citizens of the remote areas of our country as soon as possible. That's what Mr. Paulakis said a year ago. What did he do a year later? He has tabled an amendment enabling himself to make contracts with other airlines for patient aerospace. Is that what he meant last year that he made that statement? Because, of course, it seems that the problems are now very increased by the operation of the new Santorini hospital. There's a huge air traffic due to the many aerospace facilities over there. Of course I now realised, because Mr. Kammenos calls you companions. Lacks of remote medicine in barren areas? The Army. Do they close public office departments? Military doctors. Patient Aerospace? Military and firefighting helicopters. I heard Mr Polakis, who said that next Monday he would inaugurate the base of the EMCDDA in Syros, and he would do well. We're not against it. After all, that's how it happened to this day. All incidents from the Aegean islands went to Syros. But if we want to have real saving and immediate medical care and it is not just Syros an intermediate station to Athens, the Hospital in Syros should be equipped, have clinical packed, have an intensive care unit, have a implant unit. Only in this way can we have savings and immediate medical care for patients. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, it has been a year and a half since, to understand that the abolition of the memorandum and the programme of Thessaloniki all that you have been fighting for years now has been a delusion. So as soon as you understood, you cut the pensions by 6%, reduced the ESS, reduced the supplementary pensions by 50%, restarting the main pensions, resecuritizing the supplementary pensions, resecuritizing the supplementary pensions, giving for sale by EAFRD, EAFRD, ATTMERO, etc., and now that the popular findings are tragic for you, you are trying to check and update. You have just realised that the Pappa law is in danger of being judged unconstitutional, that Mr Papapas withdrew the amendment and remembered the ERR and last night you went out to all the "bothcanals", as you called it, Mr.Janakopoulou, Mr. Pappas at the SCAI. I was listening to Mr. Pappa saying that if the law were unconstitutional, they would return all the 70 million that they took. I was thinking about what's going on with these 70 million, with which you had little kids in nursery stations, and you're going to be assigned a nursing staff to the hospital. Unfortunately, for all Greek friends and friends, the situation goes from bad to worse and economy and health and education and you know it. That is why the earlier you abandon power, both better for the Greeks and for Greece, but also for you. After all, you are slow to understand your illusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the Centron Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u359	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the quest for the famous equivalents is an obligation and anguish for all of us. In every bill, in every amendment, in every response we receive in the course of parliamentary control, we are looking to find the hidden units of GDP. The Forest Cooperatives Act was supported by Parliament, because we were all convinced that the forests remained unexploited wealth of at least two units of GDP. Just two days ago we chose to support the creation of the Hellenic Institute for Research and Development, in order to strengthen, even with loan, the doctors and postdoctors of our country, in order to prevent the fleeing abroad of our children. I stressed in my report that it is urgent to legislate a framework for interconnecting the results of research and innovation with the market and the productive sector, with the real economy, that is. The only way to be able to repay the loans and, at the same time, to allow research and innovation to give multiplier power to the national effort and recovery of the Greek economy is to ensure that the innovative results of the research are exploited. The Greek demonium, the Greek scientists, can not only add units to GDP but also multiply it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Central Association, loyal to its principles, in view of the national interest and the continuity of the Greek nation, continues to support the right and fair and to reject unfair and malicious. In this context we have chosen to support this bill in principle, just as our rapporteur, Mrs Megalo-Economics, justified it and supported it by our Parliamentary representative, Mr Karras, which - in my opinion - is to strengthen the generally good law of 2011, quite good law of 2011, which initiated the concept of social economy in Greek reality and in Greek laws and placed as a priority now, the development of the famous "third pillar" of our economy, under the responsibility of each Greek government. The fact that we had the opportunity to discuss the draft law under way with the normal procedures, as provided for in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, has enabled us, too, to contribute the parties to counter-population, of course, to the formulation of the provisions contained in this draft law on the social and solidarity economy. It is, in fact, encouraging that some members of the government choose to cooperate with Parliament and do not deviate the procedures, only when they are well or badly forced, rightly or unjustly by the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to welcome the slightest sign that we are returning to logic. It is now very long, during which the country and the national Parliament, as well as the whole of the political world, operate under the extortion and pressure regime. It was completed seven years after Greece's forced eviction of logic. It's coming now. The Greek people have done and continue to make superhuman efforts every day. That is where the huge amount of responsibility arises, as elected members of the national Parliament. To my dear colleague, Mr Iglezi, I wanted to say this: because the previous ones did what they did, Mrs Iglezi, in Parliament's procedures, do you think you have the right to do the same, in your turn? We may not have been in this Chamber in August 2014, but we were seeing as citizens what others did, who, because of exactly what they did, but also, especially, of what you promised, were in the chairs of counterpopulation, as you see them at the moment. You cannot hide your own irregularity with their own irregularity. I would like to say something about the EKRD workers who are right on the streets. I would be there with them if I were not to be here today in Parliament. Their demands are fair and they fight so they don't die like dogs on the streets. What's going on in health is a scandal. What is happening to health is a felony and someone must at last assume their responsibilities. I would like, by closing my position, to say something and to make a reference to the Modiano market in our city of Thessaloniki, where we learned that 43% was sold to private individuals from the TDIDE for the incomplete amount of EUR 2 million. The social economy, Minister, has been late for a whole day. The GOI ate the market. I too recognise that there were too many problems and that the situation was particularly problematic. We talked about solutions. We haven't given solutions. They sounded beautiful ideas, beautiful rhetoric. But solutions, unfortunately, were not found. Beautiful ideas, beautiful rhetoric are also heard in this Chamber. However, outside this Chamber, our fellow citizens also want solutions to the solutions, Minister, you are responsible and all the government together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr President. I will start my position with the amendment concerning the EAFRD to talk about this authorisation, which it gives the Minister and the EAFRD Board of Directors for the conclusion of contracts for specific periods. I should like to say that, in fact, there has been this provision since 1999, but the results it produced throughout the past period have not always been well. What did we say? Today, seventeen years since then, things have been ripe, to make an assessment and say 'Contest', so that everyone who is interested in getting involved in crossroads and just as with fire-fighting helicopters, private helicopters, etc., can get the mandate when the issue arises. That simple one. From that point on, all the lionisations of Mr Polakis, I think, fall into the void, because it just copys a provision, which is not right. Of course we agree with the possibility of using private means, but with transparency and in a way that would give positive results. If it's true now, why is it relegating it? So that's not true. This device is frozen. It reappoints it, in order to enable it to create another thermospheric precinct of corruption. Depends on what hands this provision is, who signes it. That's why we put the matter on the table. In this provision, as has rightly been said, there are two blatant mistakes, which would not be made if employees of the Ministry of Labour wrote it. The first is that the Minister of Labour is called "Minister of Labour, Social Solidarity and Social Affairs". There is no such thing, and I would ask it to be corrected. In the provision referred to as signing by the Minister of Health at point (c) it says "the Minister of Health and Welfare". But in Mr Loverdou's day he has only become 'Minister of Health' and remains so. So let them take better care of what they are called themselves, how they are securitised. I come to the amendment that we have tabled on the journeys of the ELGA valuers. The ELGA is inertial. Unfortunately, valuers cannot go to appreciate. Eighty thousand declarations of damage are unestimated. The Minister came and told us this morning in a question by Mr Koutsukou, 'Children I cannot correct it because we are in a memorandum'. Good evening, where the previous government provision was, weren't we in a memorial? Weren't we in a memorial last year? Or does he confess that he was the first to incorporate the agricultural sector with the third memorandum under the surveillance of the troika? Let us make it clear what's going on. Mr Kurebes came two months ago to Heraklion and told us that the Minister was willing to give a solution. Tomorrow, Mr. Kurebes returns to Heraklion. Let's see what he tells them! So it's a memorial and it can't give the travels to ELGA and the other institutions of the Ministry of Agriculture, but you can give them to the Ministry of Defence. You have brought the other amendment and you are voting on it. Is it possible to tell us such things, that some travel are out of the way of a memorial, while they are not within? Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the other amendment tabled by the Democratic Integration which concerned the moleculosis and the way in which the people who will be recruited by the community centres, for which we heard yesterday from Mrs Fotou on behalf of the group. What he didn't tell us! He said, 'It is not ashamed of the Democratic Compact to table an amendment when we have set the criteria in all the invitations and all the announcements'. Can she have said all of this yesterday and come today, Mrs Antonopoulou, to accept the amendment which is a copy of the intellectual property of our own amendment and not to say a word about the other amendment? At least you get back what Mrs. Fotio said? It's embarrassing what's happening. Say a word, you've made a mistake! Fortunately, Mr Mandash, whom I consider to be an honest man, said he - did not say that he copied it - with the amendment. Why should the amendment be voted on? Because if there is no, the AACC shall decide on the basis of the criteria of L.2190 or on the basis of what has been voted on for this declaration. Since they had not, of course, been voted on, they could not be recruited. It took twelve hours for Mrs Fotio to come here and tell us that the amendment is needed. Shame on you, though! You need to get back what you said yesterday. The third issue is that there has been a debate on the transfer of the unemployed. SYRIZA's colleague from Second Athens said that 40% of the unemployed are being transferred free of charge and this is a great success in Attica and will be extended to the rest of the country. The unemployed are transferred to Attica, in fact, by a decision by Mr Spirtzi, but without the OSCE getting the compensation that the Greek public should have given. Of course, the unemployed in the rest of the country are not second-class. I wonder how the SYRIZA Members of the rest of the country support a choice that considers the unemployed of the other second and third-class cities! To put things in place, however, for disabled people and other vulnerable groups, the Ministry of Labour has not yet paid the OSCE 29.5 million in the second half of 2015. He hasn't paid for it yet. What is it? Is this the Ministry of Labour? For 2016, contracts amounting to 65.5 million have been sent, but a field was bought by the Ministry of Labour! Of course, people with disabilities are being transferred, but only those who have issued a prose card. Those who did not have time or those who became disabled in the next period are not transported. Is that justice and support for disabled people in public bodies? I am tabling the OSCE document, which refers to this issue, to be in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that Mrs Fotio has abused the design that we left to her in all areas. I have to say that the national strategy for social inclusion has not yet been specified. I have to say that the poverty structures for the sixty-six municipalities were intended to be extended to everyone and not just to the two hundred seventy-five to whom they are expanding. The first pilot phase of the "House and Work Reintegration of the Homeless" programme has been completed and left to its fate, while the Ministry promised that it would continue funding. The EMCD implements it successfully, but here you have abandoned the HCD in its fate, not just the program.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u362	Complete your thoughts, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u363	I would like to say, therefore, that all that is done through communication is not really in line with supposed initiatives. You only know to take the bus to Thessaloniki and give 5,000 for his transfer there to show that you're doing something with the homeless!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u365	I should like to close, Mr President, by addressing the issue of 'Help at Home'. You have brought an amendment, we will vote on it. But the extension we gave by the end of 2016 was to see the permanentization of the program, how it fits into normal structures. Now there is an extension, and we will vote for it, because it is identical copying of ours, except that it is not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u366	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u367	As we are also voting for the extension of ancillary contracts to the welfare centres, which concerns these people that we hired in 2014. But good for two years, couldn't those notorious announcements become normal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u369	Is Mitsotakis still a Minister for Administrative Reform? Is Brutsis and Kegeroglu still in the Ministry of Labour? What's up, guys? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u370	Thank you very much. Mr Georgiotis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. The SYRIZA colleagues who preceded the Step today, perhaps taking advantage of the climate of consensus in relation to the bill, have taken the opportunity to place them, which I think is not, in the end, in the interest of defending their political aspirations. Ms. Iglezi was placed earlier, wanting to remind - allegedly - that the New Democracy in 2014 had a higher 'performance' than the current government in the tabs of amendments. You know, it's not that important to see it numerically. There's two elements for good lawmaking. To give two major differences. The first is that the practice of the present government is not just to have ministerial or parliamentary amendments. The government has broken every record of the ministerial amendments, which are filed in international conventions, where the Rules of Procedure of the House are forbidden, cannot have any debate. If you look at the files in this House, then, you see that within a year and a half, three times the number of ministerial amendments to sanctions for contracts has been tabled in relation to the previous two and a half years of the New Democracy - PASOK government. But what makes the greatest difference, to see how one is legislating and how the other, is the following that is absolute and undeniable. SYRIZA as opposition did not vote for an article from any bill brought by New Democracy and PASOK between 2012 and 2014. Not even an article! Anyone who tells me that he has voted for an article, to mention it here today, if colleagues have anything to show. Didn't the New Democracy bring anything right to this room for two and a half years? We have passed 25% with 30% of the laws or diffuse provisions that this government has brought. This demonstrates the way in which we are responsibly opposed - unlike your own absolute 'no' - to a creative debate and to the acceptance of any legislative initiatives by the government. If you remember, colleagues of SYRIZA, in February 2016, Mr Vernardakis brought a bill - a section on public administration, as he mentioned, called the "Standard of Government Staff". According to this very nice piece of legislation, from 30 July of this year, the Civil Service Tribunal should operate, that is to say, to select persons for positions of responsibility to the public by this particular register, in which applications should be made basically by public officials. It was under an obligation, by means of a specific article of this Law on 30 September, to announce all the vacancies of public responsibility to be subsequently paid, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Register of Officials of the Government. Have you seen any proceedings based on the State Staff Register? They are continuously appointed general and special secretaries in the old way, the one which the present government has decided to abolish, bringing the great intersection to the public administration. Where's this big incision? Does the number of parties, or relatives and friends, have to end and then implement the law, which it voted on with specific timetables? What I'm saying is clear. On 30 July all the empty posts of the public had to be opened and on 30 September all the empty posts of the public had to be declared. It is still today, October, that the government appoints those who want to be in the positions it wants. With regard to Mr Vernardakis' amendment to cleansing, storage and feeding contracts for the general public and to public institutions, I do not really understand the obsession of this Minister - and of the Government - with always coming in and overthrowing with a sign, supposedly social and classical, existing contracts in working relations, which are in line with European directives. In fact, without arguments, it comes to reform this framework with only one purpose, to create a new generation of public contractors. He says that this is how we will have a financial benefit. If one reads the accounts report, one sees that the cost of all these contracts is in line with the appropriations available. Who says it's gonna be less? The parameter where cleanliness materials will now be of the public and not of the cleansing contractor, does anyone see it? The parameter that we do not know, when these conventions are signed, what working rule will they operate, because who will replace the person who has signed the individual contract of employment, when he will be absent for how long and under what conditions? In cleanliness things may be more simplified. Shouldn't there be someone to guide them, someone to be responsible? Do you know how the amendment solves all these issues? The amendment is two and a half pages. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. On two points it states that these contracts will be by way of derogation from any general and specific provision. A two-and-a-half-page regulation says that it will be by way of derogation of any general and specific provision. Finally, I think you are legislating by way of derogation from all general and specific provisions. Fortunately, Mr Vernardakis has been forced to say something self-evident and I hope the people concerned will hear it so that they understand that they should not be involved in this hostage. He had to admit that according to the Constitution, fixed-term contracts could not be converted into indefinite periods. It's at least one benefit. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u372	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u373	Here you go, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u374	Mr President, I would like to make a statement. The decision of the Deputy Minister of Health of Mr Polakis, by which he is reinstated by the Board of Directors of the CEDEFOP, reinstated his full president, vice president and member and appoints a new administration, has just been posted on the Internet. Mr President, this is contempt for the decisions of the country's Supreme Court, the Council of State, it is a fascinating attitude and, of course, it is paid by the unpaid eight hundred twenty CEDEFOP officials and nurses who work in intensive care units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u375	Thank you, too, but what you're doing isn't right. I'm pointing it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u376	He just came in, Mr. President. It is serious and it is "both sinners".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u377	I'm pointing it out. It's totally derogating. We are talking about another thing and an announcement is made about something else. Furthermore, because that is not the subject of the debate, no one can answer. Maybe someone wants to say something, but what you're doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u378	I'll testify for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u379	What to testify, since it's out of the process. What are you talking about? I'm telling you, it's totally derogating. I was under the impression that you would refer to the subject with a comfort...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u380	Are we derogating from the rules, and is the Rules of Procedure bothering us now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u381	You're talking in violation of the substance!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u382	Where was the derogation previously, Mr Georgioda?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u383	I said we're legislating by way of derogation. I was not talking about you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u384	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the General School of Tripoli. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, I would like to make a one-tier correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u386	Immediately afterwards, Mr. Kegeroglu. Let the students know that we are at the end of a process of voting a bill. We're on our way to the end. Then the Minister will speak and take a vote. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u387	I would like to make a one-tier correction about the amendment to which I have referred, concerning recruitment in poverty treatment units. It has changed a series that completely alters the content. In this sense, we shall vote 'at present'. We are not opposed to the establishment of criteria, but it also opens up a provision that differentiates it entirely, which means that everyone who works today in the structures will stay out. That is why we are voting 'at present'. I'm clarifying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u388	Understood. Mr Aivatidis will now speak, but you should know, Mr Aivatidis, that I am giving you the floor as a promoter. Therefore, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer exclusively to the three amendments proposed by the Golden Dawn, which concern disabled people. I believe that a government which says it is left, has the left social sign, that humanity can see it, should at least give an explicit and concrete answer, why these amendments were not accepted. The first relates to the granting of a movement allowance to disabled persons with a disability rate greater than 80%. It is, of course, about some joint ministerial decisions in 1988 and 2008 and this regulation should be extended to the fact that this movement allowance should be granted regardless of illness and not only to a complete paralysis of the lower ends and amputation of both ends. The second amendment concerns the possibility that people with disabilities, over 67%, for men over fifty-five years and for women over fifty, according to Law No 2874/2000, should be subject to this Act on voluntary insurance, to cover their contributions, and so far they are excluded. I think it is one of the very fair demands of people with disabilities, which, of course, leads to a more dignified living in the days of recession that we are witnessing, and I would say not of simple living but of their survival. The third amendment concerns the two insurance companies, the 'SPA FORE' and the 'COMMERCIAL VALUE', which have been put into liquidation. It would be advisable, in accordance with our proposal - Amendment, for individuals who have a certified disability of more than 67%, to have a priority in meeting their claims, that is to say, that they should be placed in a privileged position in order to satisfy their claims for the specific liquidation of these two insurance companies. In conclusion, I would like to say that in practice the Golden Dawn supports the fair demands of disabled people. The six and professional hybrids of the Golden Dawn insist on the opposite. This, however, leads to a giganticisation of the nationalist movement. I would remind you that by definition, the nationalist is also humanist. The golden man is a humanist too. Anyone who objects will have to face evidence, otherwise it is diverse and criminally and in a criminal way, but above all politically, Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u390	Thank you. He was the last speaker. We have exceeded much the time we said about the completion of the process, namely the sixth afternoon. We also have a large vote in front of us, as you know. All the rapporteurs in their prototype had exceeded their time. I don't know if anyone insists on taking the floor for one or two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u391	I'll be there for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u392	We shall then proceed to the Minister and vote. Mr. Koukoutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr President. Today there has been a great deal of talk in Parliament's Chamber. In fact, things have been said at ideological level: 'to change the thought', 'to change the world', 'we leftists will bring another society', 'Internationalism', 'the perfect result', 'Communism', 'the collective', 'Communa', all these very beautiful things. There have also been ideologies on open borders. It is, however, an ethnic policy, a policy against the nations. At the bottom of the scripture, contrary to the left ideologies of today, which says it opposes the new order of things, eventually helps it. You have often invoked, for example, Aleede. But today, it's you. It's you today. The economic killers in this country are you. With so much warmth for minorities, you have forgotten the majority, the majority. You remember what Orwell said in '1984': 'After we empty you, we will fill you with us'. This hatred that exists against everything the nationalist, against all the nationalist, knows that it gives us strength to move forward, convinces us about the laws of this people. Believe me that this is how we understand, when we see you dog against us - let me speak - and be so united to us. It gives us the power to move forward, because we know that we are on the way to be, to root out every anti-national in this country. But is it possible - perhaps you have also considered this - that, as you say, 'the fascists', 'these criminals' are interested in MEDIs, when we say everywhere they hate and want to execute all the MEDIs in this country? That's how the newspapers and the media used to write. You talk to a man like me who has a disabled father. You don't give anything to these people. Fortunately, people are watching. We swear we'll bring the smile back to the Greek. We'll make him proud again of this country, the nationalists, no matter how much you don't believe it. A SYRIZA lady said before: "Do you know what? The phantom of nationalism in Europe is being tallened.' He's wrong, but he's not a ghost. It's real and we're coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u394	Mr Katsotis has the floor. How much time do you want, Mr. Katsotis? And I see that you've been through your dentistry a lot too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u395	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u396	You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u397	Mr President, no one can answer what has been said by the previous speaker about the ghost that is deceiving in Europe. The people of Europe know very well what a ghost that was, what the Nazis were, the fascists, who did the training camps, the compulsory work, who were doing whatever else that was going and burned down at the end of Auschwitz. So their ideology is known. It is the most inhuman ideology and because these days the trial of the Golden Dawn continues, they cannot be presented as "peripherals of Marys". Their path is known, their criminal activity, they are Nazis - they do not hide it - they praise Hitler, they praise fascists, Papadopoulos, Pattaco who died the other day - they were all there - they praise all this inhuman ideology. They are already standing at the factory gates, alongside businessmen, against those who are struggling to improve their lives. So they can't say today that it's something else than what they really are. The people must turn their backs on them. So today, as far as the bill is concerned, we have said a lot. We shall also say in the articles our views.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Everyone will have the floor very soon. Mr. Stoyannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u399	For two minutes, Mr. President. I avoid talking about Golden Dawn, but not causing us already! Previously, the MP told her that they are humanists too. When murdering immigrants, are immigrants not human beings or only those who have Greek identity and are fans of the Golden Dawn? The successors of the Pattakus, the praisers of the junta! In this country we know very well what the seven years have done. For those who don't know, let me remind them that there was no democracy. They destroyed democracy and they came in here and they talk about democracy. If that's possible! Who was imprisoned? Greeks imprisoned Greeks. Thousands of Greeks were persecuted. These should never be forgotten. These people don't hide who they defend. As Mr Katsotis said, a few days ago he was at the funeral of Pattakos. They praised him. So junta and fascism praisers tell us about democracy. If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u400	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u401	No, Mr. Aivatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u402	He referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u403	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u404	They're false and slandering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u405	They're political positions. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u406	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u407	They sounded insulting and slandering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u408	Let me have a minute. Political views have been expressed by you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no. They're insulting, Mr. President. I respect you and I suspect you very much. I didn't scare anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u410	Mr. Aivatidis, your word of abusiveness, like what has been said to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u411	My word?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u412	...like abusive...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u413	Give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u414	They're political positions. They didn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u415	What's my exuberant speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u416	When you say in the Greek Parliament that nationalism, as you mean it, is humanism? When you're currently on trial for the murder of immigrants, for the murder of Paul Bryssa, is that humanity?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u417	I want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u418	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u419	Mr President, you have given me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u420	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u421	I want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u422	So please. Let's not interrupt Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u423	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a moment ago the phrase of nationalism has been heard. Because, indeed, the perpetrators of this so-called 'nationalism' - because, in fact, that of the national identity of hybrids are, in our opinion, - because in Europe it really is wind of populism, of intolerance, of xenophobia, of xenophobia and of racism, and because this refers to times of unspeakable memory, not only in the recent days of the junta mentioned by colleagues, but also in the oldest days of the Messopolitan War that we had here, a dictatorship of silk...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u424	Buga's...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u425	Now I'm talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u426	Buga's training in Kalamata!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u427	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u428	Keep going, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u429	We're in Kalamata, and we know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u430	You're not embarrassed at all! We had times of nationalism, the dictatorship of Metaxas and the Messopolitan War, where everything that was different after the hangings were expected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u431	What's your father's idea?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u432	Because this dictatorship which they are trying to impose and nationalism must not go through, Mr President, we as Democratic Reconciliation have said many times, that we must agree on certain things, on what is affecting the core of our democracies, the media, the institutions and not just. The Constitutional Review must now begin in the House, Mr President, and let your Prime Minister do all the committees he wants - by means of a parliamentary procedure, so that we can shield our democracy as many forces in this Parliament as we believe in democracy. Fascism must not pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u433	What's your father's idea?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u434	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u435	Mr Panagiotopoulos, you are a parliamentary representative and not a rapporteur. The procedure of the Parliamentary Representatives has been completed. We will proceed with the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u436	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u437	No, I won't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u438	You're unfair, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u439	I won't give you the floor. The conversation's over...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u440	You're unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u441	I'm not bad at all. You've placed yourself...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u442	You're unfair. It's the first time today, I'm talking about you being unfair.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u443	You have placed yourself out of the process, answered by the other parties in this House and proceeded with the completion of the process with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u444	You're unfair, Mr. President. You must say that because I'm a nationalist, I'm not a humanist! I am very sorry about you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u445	Smile as much as you like, but move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u446	I'm really sorry, because you're a doctor and we're colleagues. You're a professor, too. I wasn't expecting it from you, honestly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u447	I give you right, Mr President. You're doing your communist work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u448	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u449	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u450	How long will it take, Minister? Eight minutes is enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u451	Mr President, I'm gonna need ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u452	Here, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one could legislate within a framework of dissatisfaction or in the way we have legislated, accepting too many of the amendments tabled by the institutions on the one hand and the Members on the other. Especially today with the Vice-Presidents we have had a very constructive debate and so because of the large number of amendments we have to say that there has been a lot of mobility and we have all had to work hard in the last two days. Thank you all for that. As you know, in the countries of the West and particularly in developed European countries, the area of social and solidarity is highly developed. Several of you, honourable Members, have mentioned before me, so I will not get too far on that. In Greece this alternative sector is still in the spasm, despite the fact that there was once a great blossom of the cooperative movement. I would like to say that with this bill - as many of you have said - we do not rediscover the wheel, but we are trying to condone our own experience in our country, with the European and global experience that we have consulted, to reach this law. There's a vision. For us, the social and solidarity economy corresponds to our worldview, it corresponds to our visions of economic and social transformation, the transition to another model of production and consumption, but also to another way of life choices. We believe it is our duty as government, this place to support him. We are starting to support him, first setting up an institutional framework. But this is a long-term change. It is no naive to claim that we are taking a law and that law will succeed. Neoliberals say that greed, despite the negative burden that this word has, is a force of progress and development. The intense competition that, as its objective, is to increase profits, not because capitalism is bad, but because that is its internal logic - cannot survive if it does not have that objective - is the driving force. At the same time, however, it has been shown that it can also be a force of incredible destruction. The 2008 financial crisis is the leading global example for this. The form taken by the crisis in Greece is also an example of collective failure and weakness in the private sector of the economy - especially the large - state-run and banking domestic entrepreneurship, which has just lost access to easy credit and government procurement, filled the country with business crates. Of course, a corresponding collective failure has proved both the state sector of the economy and the state. For decades, the policies carried out in Greece in the state sector shared, through taxation, banking faith, the procurement system, customer relations with the economic elite in favour of, to a very large extent, parasitic and oligopolistic entrepreneurship. With the bill, therefore, we want to give the victims of these collective failures - not of the last crisis I described before - that is to say, the underemployed, the unemployed, the young people with high qualifications who do not find work or who do not want to work in an environment that is fragmented, such as what we have today, to workers who are abandoned by their owners, to micro-enterprises, so that they have the opportunity to collectively unleash their creative powers. So today, with the bill, we are resolving the question of the alternative legal forms that KALOS can take, so that they are indeed distinct from the private and state sectors of the economy. Our aim and ambition is to create by law a truly supportive environment in this area. In terms of the solutions that we are giving to the issues of financing, tax and insurance and access to public procurement, and at the same time we are clearing the relationship between the KALEI bodies and the public. Before I go any further, I would like to take the time left, say and highlight three issues. What is the social and solidarity economy, what strategic planning we have in front of us and finally how we have reached here as far as the law is concerned. I would like to say to the JRC Members - to allow me - that in everything I have heard today, the answer comes through a cooperative scheme - one of many cooperative schemes and we will have the opportunity to present you with all the work that has been done so far, we are starting this from tomorrow with the completion of the law - which is called 'Castry'. "KastRI" is a women's cooperative I've known for several years. It's a women's association in Syros. I asked them three questions. Twenty-eight women who have made a cooperative, are partly engaged in production and then feeding. Years ago, I asked them, "How can your prices be so low?" And they answered: “Because we want to make a living. We are not interested in making a profit." Second question: “Who does what? What is your division of work?" The answer was: "We all learned to do everything, because otherwise it was very boring work." Third question: "Tell me, why do you close the shop at 14:30 and then don't you drop it again this afternoon?" The answer was: “Because we want to do other things with our lives. We are not interested in expanding and expanding our economic activity.' 'And how do you decide about all this?' "It is not easy, but we have decided that only through collective procedures, which no one has in his hands the power of decisions, can we maintain our lives and our cooperation at a level that satisfys us." Can we imagine? These aren't from either a left team or come from SYRIZA. Of course I never asked them what they vote for! What I want to point out - and that is what we need to make towards society - is that these kinds of reactions and activities exist in our people. There are and want to be dealt with in a different context. They want to define their everyday lives, their productive activity and their choices in a different way. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, please give me some more time. So we come to ask what social and solidarity economies are. We have already mentioned and many Members have already spoken about it. I would like to stress two key points. The first is that the productive activities developed give priority to the decent biopolitics of workers, that is, the members and workers of these enterprises. The second is that these activities are being developed without having an end in themselves to expeditious and aggressive profitability. But that's not going to say they don't make a surplus. When they get out of this surplus, the thing is where this goes. We now come to say that it goes where it is defined and can be a member, a worker, a vote. They are entitled to up to 35% of the surplus. It can't be a profit, because there's no employer and a worker. How's it gain? It's a surplus of what's there. They are entitled to take it, so that they can raise their standard of living. I come to the second point, which concerns why the bill was needed. The previous bill, as we have said and supported, was a very good start. But there were gaps, which we all know. It was therefore necessary to be able to make improvements. Whether or not we'll see it, we'll find it in front of us. Let's go see, what's the procedure we followed to get here. We held public events, discussions with cooperatives and field projects, productive bodies and parties. Then we worked together in the House and put our bill in consultation. So since we have also spoken with international organisations and with the International Labour Organisation, we have come up with a bill, which has then been passed by the committees. It took a lot of time, but it had to go through this broad and democratic consultation to get where we arrived. So let's see what we're gonna do about that law we have. In the next few days, weeks and months, we will have public debates and debates so that we can see the content of it in detail and how it can be used by the citizens. What we are going to do is use it to strengthen the national strategy for the CALO. Okay, well, that's what we have to get used to. It is a good thing and it is a social and solidarity economy. Our strategy is therefore moving at three levels. The first level is institutional. It cannot function without an institutional framework. We started this, it's not complete. There will be other legislative initiatives that we will have time to talk about. The second is to support and strengthen the tools of those that can develop the space. In other words, the support mechanisms at regional level, which will provide free services to anyone who is interested and to any collectives that want to join in this area and how to produce on the one hand and the KALOS Fund, which will have the financial tools, which, as you will see in the future, have full transparency. We have already secured resources of 157 million to start over the next three to four years and we will see how needs arise and what we need to do. The last one is publicity actions. It was said by most of the people in our discussion that KALOS is a field that the world does not know. Even civil servants do not know each other, and we absolutely need to be informed and discussed on these issues, but more importantly for us it is for the citizen to be informed. To whom is this area of alternative production aimed, this area which starts with 'a worker, one vote, collective responsibility, collective obligations, we collectively decide on our rights and how we want to move forward'? It addresses young people with many qualifications and highly qualified qualifications to stop Brain Drain. It is addressed to the unemployed. It is addressed to workers who work a lot and are paid a little. The workers who work and are not paid. The workers who, while there are buildings and facilities, are no longer in an active state, and who can in legality - we are not talking about anyone going to take possession - reopening. It is also addressed to micro-enterprises that face the range of bankruptcy and locking and see the possibility on a collective basis to make a difference. We already have such examples. And when I talk about publicity, that's what I mean, people learn what's in the spasm and what can be supported as an alternative to those who can't, as I said before, or don't want to join. I want to finish with a fairly sensitive subject. In the past and in many countries, not only in the past in Greece, the area of the social economy has been used as an innovative policy for vulnerable groups. In addition to opening it to all citizens and all activities - and this will prove - it does not mean that vulnerable groups and special groups are left out of our own radar. We just start differently. What do you say? We say that the area of social and solidarity economy, because it does not create exclusion, has open arms for everyone. It does not discriminate, creates a framework of equality and equality, and hence the special and vulnerable groups find their place much easier to participate productively in the process of economy, the production of the economy and the reconstruction of the country. And why do we say that in the social and solidarity economy? Because there's no civilian that's unnecessary. There is no citizen who cannot participate in the production process of our country. So here is the choice of being able to participate and at the same time be able to define the processes through which you will operate and work on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity is adjourned: 'Social and solidarity economics and development of its institutions and other provisions' and we are entering their vote. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u457	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u463	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u466	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u467	Here you go. Mr President, I would like to make this statement. We say'residents' only because we wanted the potential character of the Anti-Cruption Tool.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u472	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u475	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u476	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u481	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4, as added by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u484	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u486	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u490	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as added by the Minister, by a majority. Can Rule 5, first Article 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u493	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u494	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u495	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u496	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u498	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u499	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 6, original Article 5, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u502	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u505	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u507	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u508	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 7, original Article 6, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u511	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u517	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree that Article 8, first Article 7, as amended by the Minister, is to be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u520	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u526	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 9, first Article 8, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u535	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 10, original Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u544	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 11, original Article 10, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u549	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u553	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 12, original Article 11, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u556	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u562	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 13, original Article 12, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u566	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u567	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u571	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can Rule 14, first Rule 13, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u579	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u580	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree that Article 15, first Rule 14, as amended by the Minister, is to be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u583	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u584	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u585	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u587	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u588	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u589	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 16, original Article 15, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u592	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u593	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u594	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u598	Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 17, first Rule 16, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u601	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u607	Article 17 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 18, first Rule 17, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u610	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u611	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u612	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u616	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree that Article 19, original Article 18, as amended by the Minister, is to be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u617	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u619	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u621	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u624	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u625	Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 20, original Article 19, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u626	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u628	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u630	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u633	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u634	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 21, original Article 20, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u635	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u637	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u642	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u643	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 22, first Rule 21, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u644	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u646	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u648	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u651	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u652	Article 22 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 23, original Article 22, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u653	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u655	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u657	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u660	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u661	Article 23 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 24, original Article 23, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u662	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u664	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u666	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u669	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u670	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 25, original Article 24, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u671	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u673	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u678	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u679	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 26, original Article 25, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u680	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u682	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u683	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u684	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u687	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u688	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 27, original Article 26, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u689	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u691	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u692	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u693	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u696	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u697	Article 27 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree that Article 28, initial Article 27, as amended by the Minister, is to be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u698	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u700	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u702	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u706	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree that Article 29, first Rule 28, as amended by the Minister, is to be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u707	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u709	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u711	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u714	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u715	Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree that Article 30, original Article 29, as amended by the Minister, is to be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u716	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u718	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u720	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u723	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u724	Article 30 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 31, original article 30, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u727	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u729	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u733	Article 31 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 32, original Article 31, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u734	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u736	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u738	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u741	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u742	Article 32 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree that Article 33, first Rule 32, as amended by the Minister, is to be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u743	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u745	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u747	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u751	Article 33 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree to Rule 34, first Rule 33, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u754	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u755	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u756	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u757	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u759	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u760	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. The original Articles 34 and 35 shall be deleted. Can Rule 35, original Article 36, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u763	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u764	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u765	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u766	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u767	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u768	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u769	Article 35 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 36, original Rule 37, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u772	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u773	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u774	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u775	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u777	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u778	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37, first Rule 38 be accepted, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u781	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u782	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u783	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u784	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u785	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u786	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u787	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38, original Rule 39, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u790	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u791	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u792	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u793	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u794	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u795	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u796	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39, first Rule 40 be accepted, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u798	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u799	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u800	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u801	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u802	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u803	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u804	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u805	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can Rule 40, first Rule 41, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u808	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u809	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u810	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u811	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u813	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u814	Article 40 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 41, original Rule 42, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u817	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u818	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u819	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u820	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u822	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u823	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42, original Rule 43, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u826	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u827	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u829	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u830	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u832	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Rule 43, first Rule 44, as it stands, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u835	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u838	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u839	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u841	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 44, first paragraph, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u844	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u846	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u847	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u850	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 45, first Rule 46, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u852	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u853	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u854	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u856	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u857	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u858	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u859	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46, first Rule 47 be accepted, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u862	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u863	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u864	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u865	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u867	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u868	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 47, first Rule 48, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u870	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u871	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u873	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u874	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u875	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u877	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does the House agree to Rule 48, first Rule 49, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u879	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u880	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u881	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u882	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u883	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u886	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49, first article 50, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u889	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u890	No. No.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u891	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u892	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u893	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u894	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u895	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can Rule 50, original Article 51, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u896	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u898	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u899	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u900	Oh, no. I have a statement to make about it. We would be voting on paragraph 3, but they are all together and we are unfortunately voting 'No'. We said to break it down, anyway, but he didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u901	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u904	Article 50 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 51, first Rule 52, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u905	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u907	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u908	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u909	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u910	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u913	Article 51 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 52, first Rule 53 be accepted, as it stands? Let me point out that Article 52 includes Amendment 723/40, which will be voted on separately at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u914	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u915	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u916	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u918	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u919	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u920	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u921	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u922	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree that Article 53, first Rule 54, as established, is to be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u923	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u925	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u926	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u927	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u928	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u929	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u930	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u931	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54, first Rule 55 be accepted, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u932	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u933	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u936	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u937	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u938	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u939	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u940	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 55, first Rule 56, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u941	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u944	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u945	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u946	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u947	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u948	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u949	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can Rule 56, original Article 57, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u950	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u951	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u953	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u954	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u955	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u956	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u957	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u958	Article 56 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Rule 57, first Rule 58, be accepted, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u959	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u960	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u961	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u962	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u963	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u964	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u965	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u966	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u967	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Rule 58, first Rule 59, as it stands, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u968	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u969	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u970	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u971	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u972	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u973	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u974	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u975	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u976	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. We inform the House that the original Article 60 is deleted. Does this House accept Rule 59, original Article 61, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u977	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u978	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u979	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u980	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u981	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u982	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u983	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u984	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u985	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60, original Article 62, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u986	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u987	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u988	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u989	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u990	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u991	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u992	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u993	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u994	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 717 and a special number 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u995	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u996	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u997	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u998	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u999	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1000	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1001	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1002	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1003	The amendment, by a general number 717 and a special 34, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 718 and a special number 35 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1004	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1005	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1006	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1007	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1008	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1009	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1010	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1011	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1012	The amendment, by a general number 718 and a special 35, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 719 and a special number 36 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1013	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1014	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1015	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1016	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1017	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1018	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1019	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1021	The amendment, by a general number 719 and a special 36, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 720 and a special number 37 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1022	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1023	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1024	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1025	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1026	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1027	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1028	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1029	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1030	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 720 and a special 37 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 721 and a special number 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1031	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1032	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1033	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1034	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1035	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1036	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1037	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1038	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1039	Therefore, the amendment under general number 721 and a special 38 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 722 and a special number 39 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1040	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1041	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1042	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1044	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1046	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1047	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1048	Therefore, the amendment under general number 722 and a special 39 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 723 and a special number 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1049	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1050	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1051	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1052	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1053	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1054	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1055	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1056	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1057	Therefore, the amendment under general number 723 and a specialist of 40 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 52, initially 53, of the draft law. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 724 and a special number 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1058	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1059	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1060	Oh, no. Mr President, I would like to make the following statement: there is the problem with 'Help at home'. We are in favour of this, but, unfortunately, because this amendment contains it, we say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1061	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1062	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1063	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1064	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1065	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1066	Therefore, the amendment under general number 724 and a special 41 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 725 and a special number 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1067	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1068	Here you go. Mr President, I would like to make the following statement: No matter what our real will, there is the legislative process and the formality. This amendment, like the next one, does not bear the signature of the relevant Minister, without the possibility of the Deputy Minister being legally signed by itself and not by the Minister. Therefore, for these reasons, we cannot support, regardless of the substance of the legislation. Mr President, the Bureau should be better aware of these issues than we or the relevant ministers. The Bureau is responsible for this, not for you personally, but for the Bureau as a body. The Bureau cannot accept a legislative initiative here without the signature of the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1069	We will not interrupt the procedure, because we are in the vote, but the Minister had already answered that. The answer is, in my view, considered sufficient. We shall continue the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1070	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1071	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1072	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1073	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1074	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1075	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1076	Therefore, the amendment under general number 725 and a special 42 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 726 and a special number 43 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1077	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1078	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1079	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1080	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1081	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1082	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1083	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1084	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1085	Therefore, the amendment under general number 726 and a special 43 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 727 and a special number 44 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1086	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1087	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1088	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1089	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1090	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1091	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1092	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1093	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1094	The amendment, by a general number 727 and a special 44, has therefore been accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1095	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1096	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1097	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1098	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1099	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1102	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1103	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Social and solidarity economy and the development of its institutions and other provisions" was accepted in principle, articles and amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1106	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1108	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1112	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Social and solidarity economy and the development of its institutions and other provisions" was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles, amendments and all, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1113	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1114	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, fifty-eight students and apprentices and eight school attendants from the 8th Ioannina Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Unfortunately, you came to the end of the meeting, when we have passed a bill as a whole. We wish you good courage. You've had the trouble with the earthquakes. We hope that you can get through it quickly, not to happen again in your place, and good continuity. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-20-S1-commons.u1115	With the consent of the House at 19.43 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, October 21, 2016 at 10 a.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
