ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 14-1-2016, the minutes of its PRACTICAL Sessions of Thursday, 14 January 2016, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Appointment of a revised European Social Charter’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of making two announcements to this House. The first is a letter from the President of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Fotinis Generations to the President of Parliament, Mr. Nikolao Voutsi, which reads as follows: Mr President, I would like to inform you that Mr Lakonia Leonidas Gregorakos is no longer a member of the Group of the European Democratic Alliance. Yours sincerely, Ghosts of births.’ The second is a letter from the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis to the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, which reads as follows: "Mr President, I am aware that, in accordance with Rule 17 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, Parliamentary Representatives of the New Democracy (in turn) are nominated by the Members: Nikolaos - George Dendias, 2nd Athens. Ioannis Brutsis, Cyclades. Victory of Kerame, State.’
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The fifth will be discussed under No 377/12-1-2016 topical question by the Independent MP II of Athens, Efstathios Panagoulis, Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the attack on retired protesters with chemical and beatings in the center of Athens. Mr. Toskas will answer the timely question. Mr. Panagulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, last Friday, when retired people and workers marched toward the government, they were attacked hard by the MATs right outside the House building and on the way to Maximos. We have seen pictures of infinitely good people being beaten by over-age pensioners who have taken a protest course to defend the minimum from the pension they have left. The photos show the brutality of the MAT organs that attacked them. Elderly people are on the ground and they're beaten by men of MATs. These scenes were seen a few years ago when the New Democracy governments were. We had seen here outside the House building in front of the Unknown Soldier being chemically thrown into protesters, we had seen chemically throwing into the hero of our National Resistance, Manolis Glezo, Mickey Theodorakis. And we had also experienced a horrific spectacle when with chemicals the journalist Manolis Kypranos remained disabled with 95%. And there was an ETUC - and I would like to prevent the Minister from telling us that he is doing the ETUC - and the ETT for the injury of Manolis Kyprian who lost both his voice and his hearing that they were not found to be responsible. And I would like the Minister to tell us if he shares the view that the forces of MAT in recent years, which have doubled over the past ten years, operate as non-state gangs. I want you to take care of it here, Minister. Let us know if the MAT teams work like interstate gangs. Have MATs been strengthened in recent years to deal with who? Those who are struggling for a better life, those who are struggling to keep their pensions from falling, those who are struggling to find a cut. It is tragic, Minister, rather than strengthening the sections that have been impoverished in all regions, in all municipalities, shut down police departments and strengthen the forces of MATs. Mr President, I would particularly like the Minister to answer us if he intends to abolish the MATs - forces of repression - but chemicals. Because I want to remind him that the previous phrase I said that the MAT teams are operating as non-state organisations is not my own, but Mr Tsipras. Mr. Tsipras had promised that chemicals would be removed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u5	Keep them for dentistry, because we've already spent a lot of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u6	I'm closing, Mr. President, in a minute. He had promised that the chemicals would be removed. Not only have they not been abolished, but we see that the protesters are treated in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u7	There's one last thing he's got!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Constantinople, please. Close, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u9	I'll wait for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u10	Before giving the floor to Minister Toska, I have the honour of announcing to the House, in order to leave for distribution, the topical question note on Monday 18 January 2016, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Article 130(1)) PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for (Parliament adopted 1. The Question No 380/12-1-2016 by MP Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks concerning the extension of the property rental of the Municipality of Saronicos to VODAFONE S.A. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 387/12-1-2016 a topical question by MP II Athens of New Democracy Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Finance regarding the implementation of the decision 2194/2014 of the Board of Directors. to re-establish the remuneration of Armed Forces officials. 3. The 363/11-1-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the intentions of the Ministry for a review of excise duty on wine. 4. The Question No 384/12-1-2016 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health on the problem of operating at the General Hospital of Samos. 5. The 371/11-1-2016 topical question by MP V' Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the validation of a fine of EUR 50 million in the company "VODAFONE S.A." from S.A. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Antonis Tritsis, Member of Parliament, with number 381/12-1-2016, a topical question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Harulas (Haras) Kafantaris, Minister for Environment and Energy, on the Environmental Sensitisation Park. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 388/12-1-2016, a topical question by MP Arta of New Democracy Mr. Georgios Stylios to the Minister of Finance about the increase of the excise fuel tax (VAT) on diesel fuel in 2016. 3. The question asked by MP Argolis of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the implementation of the provision of n. 4162/2013 on the establishment of the EGF (National Social Solidarity Account). 4. The question by No 385/12-1-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Sakis Bardalis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of workers in the "EUROMEDICA" Group. 5 H under number 362/11-1-2016 a topical question by the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyaka, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the parametering of the increase in electricity sales prices by the professional farmers - photovoltaic power stations owners. 6. The 349/5-1-2016 topical question by the MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Health about the "private of Muslims of Thrace in notices of recruitment of health personnel of the Ministry of Health". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Demetrios Kammenos, for his excellent report. Tobacco control. 8. The 355/7-1-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, about the activation of an internal control unit of the Ministry of Health and the criteria for selecting managers/supporters of hospitals by the evaluation committee. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of its Rules of Procedure). (Parliament adopted 1. The question and application under number 745/38/2-11-2015 by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the stay of Mr Kim Glen, as Prime Minister. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1919/14-12-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the problem of EKAB. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. In the development of Mr Panagoulis' question, I have heard more from what is stated in the question, so I too may need much more time to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u12	You'll have a tolerance of time, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. The first thing I have to say on the occasion of the question by my colleague is that I have shown from this position of responsibility that I respect and serve the need to protect the individual and social rights of citizens and that is the instructions, orders and measures I have taken and I am working on. Although I respect the sensitivities of my colleague in terms of pensioners' rights, I have to oppose him on two points: in terms of the accuracy of the information and the political conclusions he draws up and the real facts. In the gathering and course of protest by pensioners and other organisations from all over the political spectrum, colleagues and politicians from the Communist Party and the PAME were present, as far as I know, and it seems to me that you are replacing them in this case, because it is a wonder for a social left-wing protest to be on the right for the way in which this situation has been dealt with and for the regrets of you, Mr Panagoulis. As regards the facts, then, the gathering began at 12.00 hours outside the Ministry of Labour, it continued and arrived here, outside the House, and while the head of the process negotiations with the police force suddenly came out of the crowd of about three hundred people fell over the police officers by repulsing them. Some were trampled, some were wounded lightly and by the police and one was taken to the hospital. Some of the orderly rehabilitation forces intervened. The order they had was to use only the shields. Since some were smuggled, limited use was made of so - called blows and too limited a quantity of tear gas was launched. That is why I would ask you not to confuse events of the past, where mass use has been made with a limited use, such as this, which, if you like, has been poorly done, but it has been very limited, because otherwise we are resorting to impressions which do not correspond to the reality and the conclusions that are needed at the moment to improve the situation. As far as the lacrimal substance is concerned, there has been a lot of discussion in this area and outside this area and in the media. Although it is within the international standards and the standards that exist in our country, it is not something that is pleasurable, but it is the softest instrument to prevent certain situations. The technological developments are being monitored for even milder use and we have, as you have seen, tried, as you have seen, the events and November 17th and December 6th, and in other cases, no use was made in the center of Athens, except for some other places that were inevitable. Of course, we didn't stop at that. A preliminary administrative examination has been ordered. However, I would ask you not to confuse other incidents such as Mr Kypraiou - it is not the question, but you mentioned it now - which had nothing to do with tear gas, it has to do with other things and not with this case. A preliminary examination was therefore ordered, to see exactly what happened. As you know, I don't cover things and you've seen it since the first day I took over this ministry. Of course, political responsibility belongs to me and I would say that every responsibility lies with the Ministry. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we must use the information we have when we are sure that it is true and, as you know, the door of the ministry is open to every colleague in this area in order to provide clarification and exchange views. And above all, as far as your question is concerned, you must not make the mistake of asking me whether the troika imposes functional issues on the Ministry. Because you're still in trouble with reorganization issues, you talked about an increase in MATs, and there was no increase in MATs. The Delta units have barely been dissolved in order to assist police forces in critical areas in Attica, such as the western Attica and as is the Omonia Police Department. Therefore, the request that we stand objectively in the facts, stand close to the truth and not try to create impressions. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] But it is already over time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u14	As I gave Mr. Panagoulis, I gave you. Mr. Panagulis has the floor for three minutes, for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u15	I do not want to talk about it again. The Minister must know that journalist Manolis Kypraos was disabled by 95% of the chemicals he was thrown in the Philhellenes Street. I don't get involved, I want to protect you, but I also want to draw your attention. I was expecting, Minister, that today you would apologise to those who were trampled, as you said, and because they were trampled, those powers also considered them to be torn apart. You've got the PAME mixed up with the JRC. They don't need my own defence, neither do the PAM workers nor the JRC. But you should know, Minister, that these forces four to five years ago prevented protesters from entering the House building, when the forces of MATs and Police had gone through. You need to know something else. If I were the Minister, I would never put the police when the PAME gathered. It is the most secure concentrations that have taken place since 1974. They've never created any episodes. They protect their concentration, unlike your own powers. Because I have been subjected to many gatherings, I, too, have been abused in an unnecessarily and occasional manner by repressive forces. You told us that you have ordered SADs. The SAD will find absolutely nothing, such as the SAD for Manolis Kypraios, who was chemically injured, tear gas, and the SAD said no one was found at all. Look, Minister. The wood is the same, either right or left. Let's be careful - and let's keep an eye on it, because then I was there too - what we said about the MATs. I never said that repression forces should be abolished. There are a series of speeches from the President of SYRIZA, who was unloading both MATs and the Police and Chemicals. And he said - and that is right and I agree with him - that the protesters must be treated not by violence and especially by such gatherings. And keep it in mind: When certain political organisations gather or protest, do not put any police officers in mind. They know and protect the concentrations themselves. Mr President, - and I shall end - do you think the left wood is sweeter than the right wood? It's the same. It is even worse why the people who were beaten down - most of them were over-aged, sixty-five and seventy-seven, retired - why are they fighting? They are struggling to defend their income, which in the last five years they have seen every day be lost. And we promised as SYRIZA that from the day we were going to take over power everything will be pomegranate. And we see the same policy going on. They got to the amen! 11 pensions were deducted. No one disputes that. We've condemned them! Well, now there are no other reductions either the pensioners or the employees. That is why I would like to end, Mr President, with this: let us take care of this ministry from now on - I do not wish to do so, but it shows the time of things - because such gatherings will multiply day after day and day to the one who is in the Ministry and we will have - none of us wish - a victim. Mr President, I would expect the MAT powers to exist, to weaken, not so much is needed. To weaken, Minister, these forces which are on the ground by hundreds every Saturday and Sunday to keep private companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u16	Mr Panagulis, however, let us confine ourselves to the question. You've already spoken for six minutes. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u17	I shall conclude, Mr President. Instead of going back to the stadiums, they go to the neighborhoods. And I'm ending with this, Minister. You said that you have strengthened the “sinner” Department of Omonia. I live in an area that has a hundred and twenty thousand population. The Security Department is one in a large municipality. Do you know how many men he has? Seven to twelve. Release forces from the MATs and send them to the Departments. Send them to these so-called pedestrian patrols, we're sick of hearing them...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Panagoulis, please complete. From three you've been in seven minutes. I can't leave you any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute because they have been referred to in the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u21	Mrs Manolakou, I cannot give you the floor on this. You know that there is no intervention from anywhere else in the timely questions. Because I understand that you want to say something, because there has been reference to the JRC, if Mr. Toskas is present, I will give you a minute more, when it will be your timely question, to say your position. But you know I can't do that, because if we start this kind of violin, we'll never finish. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I will be very brief because it is well known that we have made a great deal of progress on the subject of reorganisation in order to strengthen policing against repressive mechanisms. Now, if some people want to create impressions, I can't do anything more. In the area of democratic sensitivities, the monopoly has no one. It is a request: it is a matter in which many people in this area have offered, so I would ask for it to be respected. On the question of dealing with the various situations, the police are certainly using repression to some extent. We're trying to get it done in the softest possible way. (PH) Finally, in all times the demonstrations of the JRC and PAME, I think that any control of these events is carried out with the slightest presence of police forces. This particular moment may have been a combination of unfortunate circumstances, or if you want to have unfortunate manoeuvres, but it is not this government and this ministry that can be blamed at the moment for over-repression and over-use of police force. I think the whole world has understood the mild way in which we deal with the various issues, the effectiveness with which we face the common crime and, of course, the red lines we put in some cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u24	Mrs Manolaku, I'm sorry, but I don't have the right to give you the floor. Will you speak on a timely question from a Member? What are you talking about? We move on to the next, which is the third with number 373/11-1-2016, a topical question by the Member of the Republican Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the protection of consumers from excessive charges on electronic interbank transactions and the use of credit and debit cards. The question will be answered by the Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr Stathakis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. In recent years, the number of electronic transactions and, in particular, interbanks has increased as a result of, of course, the capital controls, but also as a result of the realisation that we have contributed to dealing with the issue of tax evasion, in particular through the use of credit and debit cards. However, the costs for interbank transactions, the costs for the use of debits and credit cards, are excessive. Consumers are not protected. You have not done the right thing, Minister, to protect consumers and businesses against bank charges. For simple transfers we have bank charges, from EUR 2 to up to EUR 10 for amounts of EUR 100 to EUR 1000. For the use of credit cards, the charges are between EUR 1 and EUR 1,25 per operation and EUR 0,40 per debit card. It is not possible to continue the excessive charge for the establishment of the POS system by banks, ranging from EUR 157 for wired services, but it is enough to exceed EUR 400 from some banks for the wireless system. However, there is also an important issue concerning the burden on companies carrying these costs on the price of the product and on the consumer. Any undertakings that do not do so are at the expense of their own and operating costs. Of course, we have to say that in some categories, for example the fuel stations, the profit is very low compared to the high turnover they have. At about 3%, about 1% is cost, when we have an electronic transaction, when we use a debit or credit card. You can understand that either the consumer pays it by transferring costs or the company itself does so. That is why we call for the European Union's Rules of Procedure to be applied immediately, which had to be implemented in our country from 9 December and, unfortunately, it has not been implemented until now and the banks have been uncontrollable to continue these charges to which I have referred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. As you know, this Regulation has entered into force and requires two additional provisions. One provision relates to regulations and decisions which the Bank of Greece must take on the one hand and, on the other, to a ministerial decision which will follow the decision of the Bank of Greece if further clarification is needed. The issue at the moment, as you know, is more complex than what you have presented. The Rules say that interbank commissions for the use of any credit instrument may not exceed 0,2% or 0.3% of the transaction value. The problem becomes more complicated when we have quadruple systems, namely the involvement of a credit card that is managed outside Greece, the bank, the trader and the consumer. So, in the quadripartite systems, this needs a much more complex intervention on our part in order to find ways that are both legal and answer this question. We have done three things: firstly, we are investigating the additional burdens that banks have the right to impose in the context of free competition beyond 0,2% and 0.3%. Fortunately, there has been an analysis of the categories of these charges per company because they are not uniform. This survey was carried out by the Chamber of Commerce, where we saw that we had a different burden on 25% of the businesses currently operating at a rate of 0.5% to 1%. We have 65% of enterprises that are marginally more than 1%. We also have 10% of companies charged with even higher commissions. Our intention, firstly, is to implement - I repeat - the directive in full with the Bank of Greece's Regulation and the Ministerial Decision, if necessary, and, at the same time, to see whether there is allowed and without infringing competition rules the possibility of political intervention, with regard to additional categories of charges, which at present remain at the discretion of the banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, although you have made positive references and presented real evidence showing that the problem is much bigger, you have not given any clear indication of how to deal with the problem as a whole. Your statement that the problem is more complex, I do not want to believe that it hides the fact that it is much more difficult to resolve. In my view, there are no obstacles, even on very difficult issues, to give solutions if there is a will. I am referring in particular to the fact that the Rules of Procedure had to apply from 9 December onwards. Unfortunately, its implementation has not yet begun. I don't know if the Bank of Greece, the Treasury or anyone else is responsible. I address the government which is obliged to apply a regulation. No need for integration into the network. It's not a directive to come to the House to become a state law. Your Ministry, which is responsible for consumer protection, has not dealt with this matter or, if it has dealt with it and we do not know it, tell us what you have done in this regard. Are you here from 9 December and after the bank? Which of the banks did you denounce or through the Hellenic Banks Association what did you do? You didn't tell us. You're saying you're applying. If you apply to those who violate the Rules of Procedure, have you imposed them the anticipated fines? No, of course not. I didn't hear that. You have the power, through the legal framework with ministerial decisions, but if you consider that there is not enough power to bring the system into law. As a competent State Secretary of State in 2011, on January 17, I issued a ministerial decision on the basis of the authorised provision and abolished ten abusive conditions used by banks and many charges, which were then also for transactions within the bank itself. Even with the bank's own ATM to make a transaction, there was a charge. There is the institutional framework. The question is if there's a will today. So what I want is to see how we protect the consumer, but also the businesses. Because with the excessive taxation that has been done, with the new extra taxes that you have invented for the fiscal adjustment, not only for the increase in VAT, and even in wine, you have put a tax on exports, we want as the Minister of Development, as the Minister of National Economy, to tell us how you are strengthening the competitiveness of Greek businesses and not transferring the costs to the Greek consumer. Is it possible, through the redistribution of the NSRP in any way, where we have the timely question then to discuss in Parliament, only will it be developed by them or by intervention in a number of things that have to do with their operating costs and the bleeding of significant amounts by the banks? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If an average amount of about EUR 100 - and I will close with that, Mr President - is moved about fifty times, with the costs charged by banks for the transfer, the bank has taken it 50 times. And that's what we say. It's complicated. Well, it's not complex, it's simple. I will give you cards, which from a bank to a bank of up to EUR 2 and up to EUR 12, and it is totally unacceptable that this should happen. As also, it is unacceptable to charge cards, even for the establishment of the system to such an exaggerated extent. We will be close to the government in trying to increase the number of electronic transactions, because this will, of course, help to prevent tax evasion, but we will oppose the continuation of excessive charges on the part of the banks and the indifference you are displaying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u30	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u31	Mr Kegeroglu, on 12 October, three days after the directive, the General Secretariat for Trade and Consumer Protection sent a letter to the Association of Greek Banks, which obviously calls for the direct application of 0.2% and 0.3% to intrabank transactions using a card and at the same time raised the importance of the issue of the other two - three issues, which I indicated to you at the outset and which are not solved in one day, because they concern charges beyond this regulatory directive. And I repeat to you, for once, that it concerns matters, not only intra-bank transactions, but also the issues of additional charges when four parties are involved in the transaction and they obviously raise the cost of managing if they involve cards or bodies or businesses, such as international credit card companies, which are managed by electronic transactions outside Greece as well. I am therefore reminiscent of the fact that the issue has been raised on 12 October. Practices on the basis of the Rules of Procedure apply to 0.2% and 0.3%. But the problem is not solved. It takes two additional - I repeat - provisions concerning both the Bank of Greece's directive and the ministerial decision to follow, because it will concern the amount of fines and the body which will impose them. That's true. On the other hand, I repeat that we are investigating all the possibilities which may be of political intervention, without prejudice to the rules of competition. So we are closely following this issue and the necessary measures will be taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u32	We move to the third with number 383/12-1-2016 topical question of the second parliamentary party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakou to the Ministers for Rural Development and Food and Economy, Development and Tourism, on delays in the delivery of production to the customs producers of Greece. The question will be answered by the Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr Stathakis. Mr. Manolakos, for reasons of equality, and even though Mr. Toskas left, I'll give you four minutes from the beginning. Manage them as you wish. Here you go, Mrs Manolaku.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, thank you. I know that the Rules of Procedure do not provide for that. However, between the two speakers there was a debate on the JRC and there could not be any intervention. I say this because last Friday's mobilisation - because I was there - was the mobilisation of the PAM, which was carried out in a responsible and decisive manner, completed his protest about the insurance that breaks the lives of workers. I say this to Mr Panagulis, in order to have an integrated picture, and I stress that this struggle is continuing, but also to the Minister, because it cannot hamper the protest. On the contrary, there must be respect and when there are obstacles, as there have been the horns of MAT outside the flower shops, then there will be a conflict. This is the role of the class movement. That's what consistent class forces did. I shall now come to the topical and urgent question on the agenda. The policy of the European Union and the Greek governments has led to the depreciation of the Greek Sugar Industry. At one time, we had sugar production for the needs of the people, and today, the industry is actually falling apart and it is at a limit point. Problems are too much. After the 20% advance - crustaceans - to the shipowners from Orestiad, Serres, Platy, Thessaly, western Macedonia, they must receive the remaining 80% due to them. I'm saying it's because he's in a state of waiting and rage at the same time. They don't know when they're getting paid. The postponement goes from day to day and has become a mockery. At the same time, the promises made by SYRIZA - ANEL and the majorities of the viability of the Greek Sugar Industry have been forgotten. Resources, subsidies, tax exemptions, development laws, reductions in energy tariffs and others you have for industrialists and investors abroad, but not for the Greek Sugar Industry that works and should benefit small and medium-sized farmers as well as local production to meet the needs of our people. So it is justly their indignation and we ask you to give us specific answers, because the period of the new crop starts in February. So money must also be programmed, whether or not they are going to bind their fields. So we ask you to tell us how many days their repayment will take place. It should've been yesterday. Secondly, what programming is there for the next growing season for the Greek Sugar Industry? Finally, what will be the medium-term planning for the modernisation and development of the Greek Sugar Industry to meet our needs? I would remind you that we have had five sugar factories and we have fully covered the needs of the country. Today they are subordinated to the literality of the two and it is questionable whether the next period will continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u35	I shall start by saying that this government has inherited a huge problem. The Greek Sugar Industry was essentially in a continuous downgrading, with hugely accumulated over-lapping problems, a production price which was higher than the sale price, accumulating a new loss cycle and with a property regime separated, after the sale of ATE to Piraeus Bank, between the owner, the clearer, i.e. ATE and the sole creditor of Piraeus Bank. I would also like to add that this industry has been a bulwark of political mediation and at the same time provocative trade decisions have been taken, which have further increased the company's debts, so that management is carried out. This was the Greek Sugar Industry, as this government received it. We have made a first substantial move with the increase in the share capital of EUR 30 million in order to give time for all the major decisions to be taken in order to keep this industry alive and, of course, to continue production on the market side, which is the basis of this industry. I can tell you in detail how these 30 million euros were spent during the year in order to close the company's obligations to continue to have a smooth raw material flow, both from domestic customs producers, who have received 20%, and from companies supplying raw material, because, as you know, by 2017 there is a favourable raw material supply system from cheaper producers within the European Union. These were the actions we have taken in order to maintain it. As such, the operational plan for the development and restructuring of the company for 2016-2019 is completed. This is absolutely crucial. Everyone must contribute to being sustainable and to making all the changes needed to maintain both industry and domestic production. Secondly, we are in constant agreement to achieve the restructuring of the loans and, at the same time, the refinancing of the company. It shall not be possible without the refinancing of the operation. Thirdly, we have taken some direct initiatives to find the money that will meet the needs of the shipowners, but in ways that are compatible, that is, they will not raise questions of State aid and that are incompatible with the existing institutional framework at European level. With these initiatives, we hope to find the way in which the financial problem is solved in conjunction with, whether together with the bank or individually as a public body, is solved in order to make a sale of an asset that the company has and which the public is interested in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the Educational Project "Work Democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and two educational escorts from the 5th Glyfada Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Manolakou has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I do not doubt that you have inherited huge problems, but that is the result of the European Union's policy. When it puts a quota and substantially shrinks production under the needs, then production costs will increase, it makes sense. Unfortunately, however, this policy of the European Union and you are defending it, so problems will grow. As far as ownership and management are concerned, of course you can do it and welcome it. But this cannot be an alibi for the problems not to be solved and for this particular Greek industry, which the place needs, is needed by small and medium-sized farmers, and each Greek citizen needs it to consume Greek sugar. I want to tell you the following. We have asked specific questions. But you respond in general and vaguely. We ask you when farmers and customs producers will be paid. If they're not paid, next month they won't put a beet in their fields, so the industry won't have any raw material to work. These go hugs, they're claws - meat! In the end, the European Union is leading to the liberalisation of quotas. Should there not be a government planning to upgrade these factories to produce to meet our needs? You're talking about restructured loans. Tell us specific things. We know that from 2010 to 2015 for a loan of 145 million, received by the Sugar Industry, has only paid 48 million interest. What does that mean? Doesn't it mean that it's actually milked, literally, by that bank? You spoke about initiatives to pay the farmers and wished or thought solutions would be found. We're asking for specific things. Will they be paid on Monday? Is there going to be this programming? Is the Sugar Industry gonna work like before? I should like to end by addressing the customs producers above all. We call on them to join in their voices with the farmers on the streets to demand that the Greek Sugar Industry be a state business in an absolute way and, of course, to claim that the people are really in power, because then there will be no anxiety about what they will get, about when they are paid, about what they will cultivate. Why? For only such a policy will be for the welfare of small and medium-sized farmers and the people and not for the benefit of the monopolies. We expect in your second language a specific timeframe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u38	He has the floor for the Minister to answer for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u39	You do not want to go back to the past, but you are defending the past from what I see with nails and teeth and want to shift the responsibility, either in the European Union - I would remind you that Greece does not cover the quotas it has, produces much less - or the robbery banks. I would remind you that ATE was the robbery bank - if you invoke the past - and I imagine it's a paradox. Reality is reality. Sugar production costs are around EUR 900 in tonnes and the selling price is EUR 479,59. I don't know how you'd solve this problem. You'd have invented a way to solve problems magically. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u40	If we cultivated five hundred thousand acres, it would drop the cost and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u41	We, therefore, in this situation - and I repeat - have had huge problems as a business and as a way of working, incredible management of the company's money within it and dozens of other problems, we have been fighting the battle since the beginning of this year to keep the company open despite this. But at the same time we are quite clear and specific that, in order for the company to come to life, a strong restructuring programme is needed, which we are currently preparing for, and that is what we will proceed with, and I hope that everyone will agree. Secondly, with regard to the money to be paid tomorrow - which I should have said yesterday - I can tell you exactly where the EUR 30 million went last year, to the euro. It is absolute that this money has been spent on redemptions and other suppliers of the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u42	But last season, it was.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u43	There are no, then, at the moment. All 29,993,000 euros have been spent. We need new money. This new money can come from two ways. There's no third party. These two ways are both: firstly, refinancing by the bank and, secondly, transferring funds from the public towards a real estate that is of interest to the public. The third way has not been discovered, at least for our part. We do so quickly and hope, as you rightly said, that we can prevent the new growing season. Textile producers must feel safe in any case and in the new period their needs will be fully met.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u44	They will not be discussed because of the impediment of the main foreign ministers, the following topical questions: The third, with number 372/11-1-2016, is a timely question for the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the progress of the development of the former airport of Greece. The second question, under number 389/12-1-2016, is a timely question of the second question by MP Fthiotidas of the New Republic, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the assessment of new financial measures for the period 2015-2016. Also, they will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Ministers and will be redefined for discussion at a next meeting, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents, the following topical questions: The first, with number 378/12-1-2016, is a top-stage question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health, on the operation of the Computer Tomographer (PET - CT) at the University General Hospital of Ioannina. The second, under number 386/12-1-2016, is a top-stage question of the first-stage question of the Athens MP, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the implementation of the 'claw back' measures and'rebate return' measures to the private providers of the EEA for the year 2014. The fourth under number 382-12-1-2016 topical question from the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the problems of anti-physical vaccination in Greece. The fifth under number 369/11-1-2016 top-level question by MP Larissa of Potamio Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, concerning the "province of the Hellenic Republic by the Court of Justice of the European Union (WEU) of overruns of the maximum weekly working time of doctors". The sixth question under number 370/11-1-2016, first question by MP, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the position of the Ministry for the ‘Racist incident of two Israeli passengers against Arab-Israelines on a plane in Aegean’. And finally, the first with number 379/12-1-2016 topical question of the second Piraeus Parliamentary 2nd cycle of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Irene (Nina) Kasimatis to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding the concession of the use of part of the Women's Booking Store in the Municipality of Korydallos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u46	I have seen you, Mr Constantinople, and because I see that you are a parliamentary representative for the question, I will give you more time then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u47	On the question I would like to say, which is why I would like to speak now. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u48	Please don't ask me. I'll give you a minute. You know that it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, as you would have seen today and the past few days, at least 60% of the questions are not coming to the ministers to answer. We have been talking for so long about insurance and I ask Mr. Tsakalotos a question about Greek and if he will move on to create new jobs, Minister, and Mr. Tsakalotos is in the country but is not present in the House. He's in the country, he's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u50	He's a patient and a traveler!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u51	I think, Minister, that you should tell the ministers that investment is a priority for your government and country. And I would ask you to come to the House and answer Members' questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u52	Mr Constantinople, there was a fundamental debate in the Conference of Presidents - I hope you have been informed by the representatives of your party - and we said unanimously - because it actually takes some form of epidemic, not to come back - that the questions of colleagues will not have to be retabled, but at the next meeting they will be placed on the agenda, except in cases which the ministers have proved to be abroad, so objectively they cannot be here and here. That's to restore order. I don't know if Mr. Chakalotos is back. If he's back, he's not bad, if he hasn't come back, well he's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u53	We enter the discussion of RESEARCH The debate will take place with number 2/2/5-11-2015, the current question of Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group of the New Democracy of Eleftherios Aygeaki, Stergiou Giannakis, Panagiotis Mitarakis, Ioannis Vroutsi, Apostolos Vessiropoulos, Emmanouil Konsolas, Theodores Fortsaki, George Georgios Giakoumatas, Gerasiou Giakou, Vasiliou Yoyakas and Nikolaos Panayotopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the subject: "Work for transport and Phasing projects". The Minister will answer Mr. Stathakis. Mr Nikolaos Dendias has been appointed parliamentary representative of the New Democracy in this question. First of all, Mr. Aygeakis is speaking for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the financing of infrastructure projects and development projects by the European Union and the ILO is necessary but not capable, in itself, of a treaty on the country's exit from the crisis and its return to development. Infrastructure and European aid operate in addition and supportively in the development of entrepreneurship and private investment, as well as in the strengthening of the competitiveness of the Greek economy. We, New Democracy, believe in the development of private initiative, entrepreneurship and attracting foreign private investment. But you, as a government, are bound by the agreement of 12 July on attracting investment. You may, of course, do so with pain of soul and tears, such as taking advantage of the fourteen regional airports, but you must do so. The point is, however, that you have committed yourself to our partners and our finances to supporting, that is, so simply, private investment as a one-way path to the economic recovery of the country. You are, however, disastrously giving messages to the country, faithful to the contradictions, between words and actions. You are sending out one of the largest private investments that have been made in recent years in our country. You need, Mr Minister, members of the Government, colleagues of SYRIZA, the company "Hellenic FRYSOS", which has invested in slag, to suspend its work, to prosecute a significant investment, to lead to unemployment and the poverty of hundreds of workers. The pretext for environmental issues, which you are addressing, has been rejected both by the S.H.E. by a plenary sitting - indeed the supreme court - as well as the recent reports on environmental damage from the non-operation of the old mines. The most important thing, however, is that you are giving our country a clear and disastrous message to potential investors. Who really dares to invest his money in our country when a hostile climate is being created for investment? Who's going to invest in an uncertain but also fluid, over and above, an investment environment? You are driving the economy to further recession with disastrous consequences for the real economy, increasing unemployment and economic strangulation of the country. On the one hand, you are destroying the private initiative. On the other hand, you are destroying the only financial, investment tools available to our country, such as the ESDP. The NRP 2007-2013 was the most important development tool in the period of the economic crisis. Significant infrastructure projects have been integrated and completed, jobs have been maintained, and whole regions have been upgraded by means of breathing projects for their development. In 2014, to remember, it closed with the most positive elements of the implementation path of the NRP for the period 2007-2013. Firstly, absorption reached 87.97%, with total expenditure of 19.5 million. Secondly, the public investment programme, the so-called EIP, has been successfully implemented, channelling to the economy and society funds amounting to EUR 6.6 billion, financing even more projects and actions, ensuring the quality of the EIP. Third, all the objectives set until 2014 for the 2007-2013 programming period had been achieved by December 2014. In addition, in the most prosperous circumstances, the new NRP for the period 2014-2020 began. The objectives set for the start of the 2014-2020 programming period had, I remind you, been achieved. The vote on Mr von Wogau's report will be taken at the next partsession. I would remind you that five sectoral and thirteen regional programmes have already achieved the influx of payments into state funds of 150 million. As a result of hard and methodical work, our country in 2014 was to be placed in the first place of the European Union in terms of absorption by European programmes. In fact, I would remind you that this success was recognised in the most official way by the then Commissioner for Regional Policy of the European Union, Johannes Khan, who in 2014 gave credit to the Greek Government, firstly, for the progress of the completion of the current NRP and, secondly, for the positive criticism of the project submitted by the Greek side to the European Commission, from which the green light for the new NRP is expected. Unfortunately, the development, arduous course was halted by the destructive policy developed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. In 2015 was the year that the NSRF had to close, complete the ongoing projects and close the obligations, such as the disbursement of money, the completion of payments, etc. Instead, your Government, Mr Stathakis, in 2015 has shown a tragic failure to absorb EU funds. The "surprising" negotiation led to a stop to payments, suspension and "freezing" of works and a closure of construction sites. As of May 2015, submitted and for a long time pending the implementation by the Bank of Greece of requests for allocation to co-financed projects, speeding up the implementation of the projects in order to complete until 31/12/2015 and facilitating the procedures for their rapid completion should be a key priority of government policy. But I had to! Instead, what did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Ignace, I'm sorry. I'll interrupt you for a few seconds, make an announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u56	I will take some more time, Mr President, and, if necessary, let me take the time of my dentistry. Let's not have any dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u57	There will be tolerance. Don't worry about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and two teachers attending from the 1st General School of Chalkida. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here you go, Mr. Ausgeakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u58	After the pleasant interruption and after we welcome the students from Chalkida, I will continue to present what the government has done instead of what it is obliged to do. Instead, Mr Stathakis, the imposition of bank holidays and capital controls has made it more difficult to implement the ESRB projects, which have been suspended, inability to order materials, problems in procurement and inability to complete the projects. And, therefore, many projects, which are under way, will not be completed within this programming period, and it is highly doubtful that they will join the new ESDP. In particular, with regard to motorways, the relevant Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism Mr Stathakis, who is present today, stated in an earlier statement: "The new NRP has very limited funds for large infrastructure investments." Therefore, the financing of the motorways by the new ESRB would mean that it would fully cover the specific part of the programme. The problem with projects financed by the NSRF 2007-2013, which ended in December that passed us, has taken explosive proportions and concerns all the projects, from those of the major motorways to the small municipal projects. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, sixty-sixty-two co-financed projects of all operational and regional programmes are transferred or continued in the new NSRP 2014-2020, with a total budget of EUR 4.6 billion, which will be charged to the new total budget of EUR 19.1 billion. In this way, in order to understand it, the new NSRP budget is basically reduced by the corresponding amount, which is less than EUR 16 billion. To this amount, which relates to projects which have remained incomplete mainly because of the administrative weaknesses in the integration of key infrastructure projects, an additional EUR 600 million should be added, which is the gap in financing the major road corridors. The responsibilities of the current government, your responsibilities, Mr Stathakis, are enormous. In very important road, rail, waste and waste management projects and in many others there is still a lack of the government to implement the necessary infrastructure in our country, depriving us of valuable funding, which we do not have, for the economy and for our country. The targets, set by the Minister responsible for NSRP absorption at the end of 2015 at EUR 4.5 billion, are not just over-optimistic, but show the long distance that separates the government from reality and from common sense. Unfortunately, there has been a huge, great damage and, furthermore, the EIP will be called on in 2016 to cover all "holes" from the new ESDP, which will not be transferred, as bridge projects, to the new ESDP. In this case the cost of the PPP must be borne, which is unthinkable to the current economic situation in our country. This situation, of course, could have been avoided if, since the summer of 2015, when it was known what is going on in the projects and which one of them will take another time, their fate had been decided earlier. But then the government had other priorities. The consequences are tragic: First, the projects, for which it has been declared to be completed as 31-12-2015, will remain incomplete and will require national resources to be completed. Secondly, the sum of money spent on these projects, about EUR 2.5-3 billion, should be paid back to Brussels. If you consider that the part of the 2015 National Public Investment Programme is 700 million, then it becomes evident that the Greek State will just be called back three to four times this amount. And this does not take into account the loss of tens of thousands of jobs, VAT revenue, insurance contributions and a number of other revenues. But, apart from the economic impact, it is also important that the impact, which will exist on the level of life of the citizens, and also on the strengthening of the entrepreneurship and competitiveness of the Greek economy because of incomplete constructions and non-implementation and integration of actions of the NRP. With your ideas, with your actions and your omissions you are mathematically leading the Greek economy to destruction and development projects in the calenda, condemning not only the Greek economy but especially the Greek society and especially the young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u59	The second question has the floor, MP Kavala, Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the first speech, as has always been extremely consistent with the figures, which he mentioned, regarding the rate of non-implementation of the previous ESDP and the issues of transition to the next. I want to focus on the basics, because we're forgetting the basics. In order to solve the problem of the country and to get back to the pace we had a few years ago, before a crisis, we need to get into growth, where - even marginally - we were beginning to enter at the end of 2014 before you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, came to us. In order for the country to pass at growth rates, investment must occur in the country. There is no other way, since every opportunity to finance the markets has been lost. Investments will produce wealth - I told you that there is no other way - and wealth will emerge over and above new investments - reinvestment, namely - for new jobs and for better conditions in existing jobs, i.e. wage increases. That's how it's done. There's no other way. Others, such as, let's say, the prospect of a truly viable insurance policy or the prospect of financing a functioning social state from the excess of wealth. The management of deficits brings new dead ends and new dead ends bring new cuts. What do we have so far? On the one hand, a paradoxical tactic and, on the other, a communication management, to which I admit you are excellent. But the problem is not solved by saying that the left government "wars", "negotiating", "does not want all this", "democratizes with pain of soul" and allegedly resists. As the Minister for Finance resists, who yesterday in Berlin found it in everything with Mr Shoeble. The IMF isn't leaving, but it's staying. It reminds me of the known story with the bases of the '80s. And, accidentally, Mr. Paul Thompsen is digging back into Athens to see how the IMF will "run" the continuation of reforms and the continuation of the programme that you have agreed. It is not enough for communications to be managed in these areas. At the moment, let us admit that the only new money, which exists in the country, is not from investment, but from the distress funds, which, as I say, will emerge at the door of business, whose commitments have been made, since you have opened the way for them and the immunizations that you need to run quickly. But your mentality is a stateist and anti-business culture. It is not only the hostile attitude towards ELDORADO GOLD, which the fine of 1.7 million for environmental infringements, which the Minister had known since February last year, was imposed five hours after the company's decision to suspend its work in Skouria. That's how he finds out! Of course, the Minister responsible has had the courage - because he is a nerve, he has also done the Minister of Labour, if you love him! - to say workers have lost their class consciousness. Apparently his formula is to make them rediscover their class consciousness to unemployment. That's what you're doing. What's going on in the scenery of the N.S.S.A.? What's the picture? We have six hundred forty-seven co-financed projects of all Operational and Regional Programmes, which are carried over or continue in the way of bridge, phasing, in the new NSRF, the 2014-2020 EPA, a total budget of 4.6 billion. These 4.6 billion will be spent beforehand on the 19.1 billion-dollar budget. Result: the new ESDP will be reduced by the amount of the transported projects. You managed, in other words, to involve the new ESDP for the country, not 19 billion new funds for infrastructure projects but under 16. There are other issues. The European Commission is negative in transferring funding to the next programming period. What's going on here? The new ESDP, as you know, is not designed to finance infrastructure where the projects of the previous programme were. It is designed for innovative actions, employment support actions, not infrastructure projects. How are you gonna solve this? There are still outstanding programmes from 2000 to 2006, three more programmes before. And that is what, as we know, bans on the continuation of funding apply. What's going on here? Will they be lost? Will the Public Investment Programme be in charge of cutting investment that could be made other than that? You have not even made sure to submit a request for an extension of the ESRB. This is inaction and inadequacy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. I could also take my dentistry time, why won't I need it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u61	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u62	In conclusion, the Government simply, ladies and gentlemen, cannot do its job - that is - for two reasons basically. The first is your ideas, your minds, your worldviews, your way of dealing with the main problems, especially as regards the movement of the economy. You just want to keep your political audience satisfied. That's where your priority is. I'm asking a rhetorical question at the table. Do people, who have been nurtured in the youth organisations of the Left, can "run" effectively privatizations on the difficult terms and timetables that they require? Do you think people who have been nurtured in the youth organisations on the left - have you heard this before, Mr Santorinier, I know - can do what they need to do to attract investment from international capital? We know your views on international capital. Let me see you here, please come international funds to run business. I answer that they cannot even maintain existing investments in Greece. And it's not just Squirrels. Minister, more than sixty thousand companies, of northern Greece, have carried after the imposition of capital controls on their tax base in Bulgaria. They started with opening a bank account, so people can pay and "run" their businesses and now they have gone to their tax office. What does that mean? Is the impact of the Greek economy, as you said, when there are newspapers in Bulgaria talking about thanks to Greece for the two hundred and fifty thousand jobs created by this in Bulgaria? This may be an inflamed estimate, but don't tell me that nothing is going on and that the impact is negligible. Go, if you want, in northern Greece to see what people say there, who run in Bulgaria every day - well that is close to borders open - for their jobs to work. The market therefore narrows and bruises with a view to the end of 2014. Your second problem - and I close - is your management failure, your inability to understand that there is no time and you must run. Days ago, Minister, in Crete you said that we will now have all the comfort of making our new design. But where do you find her in the comfort of time? Inadequacy, however, costs. The new NSRF is about 4 billion-dollared. The cubit has lowered, as the government has lowered the anticipation of the country. But you have now been perceived. People who, until now, did not adopt the culture of protest - I am referring to free professionals - who feel that they are being exterminated by the new arrangements for their contributions, who go down the streets against you, do not tolerate you. We've been through this. They didn't listen to us when we talked, but now they're listening. Instead of development perspectives and predatory opportunities, they see new burdens ahead and even new burdens that far exceed their tolerances. The New Democracy, led by Kyriakos Mitsotakis - to say this - assures them that this will not happen, that from now on all its powers, all its concentration, all its design will be to support these forces and those who produce in Greece, those who are tired of building something in their lives and are surely tired of seeing you destroy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u63	The third colleague is Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, and until he comes to Stepma, as President-in-Office, I think that the majority of my fellow Members are in favour, I wish him no success in his new parliamentary duties. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the most crucial financial instrument for the Greek economy, for the NSRF for the period 2014-2020, which the previous government has successfully negotiated. And it is no longer a very important financial instrument, at the moment it may seem the only financial instrument of the Greek economy, because due to the state of the Greek banking system, despite the recapitalisation and because of the credit control, which affect liquidity, in combination with the issues of the country's credibility, the main financing of the Greek economy in the coming years for new investments will necessarily come from the NSRF. That is why it is very crucial, Minister, that you move quickly towards the implementation of the framework for the new ESDP. In 2015 we saw projects responding, for example in my constituency of Chios, you replied six projects totalling EUR 4.3 million, and I am tabling the relevant list for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Mitarakis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What you have not yet clarified - and we hope that you will do so today, in the context of the current question by the Members of the New Democracy - are what projects will be put into the next programming phase. Mr Augias has often asked the Ministry responsible for specific answers, but they have not yet been received, so we had to proceed to the topical question in October. The new NSRF must function proliferationally in private investment, because as well as well or badly this government negotiates, the future of the Greek economy will not only be bleak if we can bring in EUR 100 billion new investments in the years to come. And this government still does not seem to have decided what its development vision is, what its plan is, and especially what its attitude is towards large private investment, what creates thousands of jobs, that is, what the Greek economy and the Greek society need today. I would like, for example, Minister, to hear from you today what your position is on developments in Halkidiki, when one of the biggest investments that have come to our country in recent years is being closed if you think this story helps the Greek economy's path, if it improves our country's image as an attractive investment destination, what message does that send to foreign investors. We want to hear your opinion and give us a convincing answer. If you believe in private investment, say it directly. If you don't believe it, there's no reason for the Prime Minister to run to Davos, run to the Clinton Foundation and talk to investors about our country. But it is not just the subject of the 'ELDORADO GOLD'. Many large investments have been frozen, such as the Greek, which would create tens of thousands of jobs. And you've frozen it, not to negotiate something better. With the example of airports it seems that you are not wasting time in negotiations, you are simply wasting time for the country and you are finally coming to conclude decisions from the previous government. We've got the TAP thing. Is TAP still on? Twelve thousand jobs. On the contrary, the Government has invested in alternative pipelines which seem to have not proceeded, and for all they have helped is to appoint one or more of them. The second big question is what you are doing with the development law, which is linked to the NRP. The previous development law expired on 31 December 2014. The previous government in November had submitted to the productive bodies the new development law. He's been in your drawer for 14 months. You said recently that you are preparing a new law, for which we have not yet seen a draft, and it has been twelve months since your election. In other words, we have spent a year of recession without our country having a development tool. I understand that the representatives of the employers' organizations, who recently came to the Maximos Mansion to discuss insurance, set as a prerequisite for any cooperation between them to have the new law. But you must bear in mind that the new law also needs to be consulted with the European Union. So the schedules that you have made up your public commitment will be very difficult to keep. And although in 2016 we have no development law, then we will have lost two very critical years, two years in which unemployment tends to grow. We, in 2014, signed EUR 2.4 billion new projects, projects by small and medium-sized Greek enterprises and incorporated them into the development law. The corresponding figure for 2015 is zero. There is no incorporation of a new project, because you don't have the law. But it is not only the new investments for which we must fight, they are also the existing, Minister. I will ask you a timely question, to tell me what payments you have made in 2015 for the previous development framework, for v. See Case 3299 Commission ν Italy [1999] ECR 3299. 3908 which thousands of integrated investments put into the bureaucracy of the Ministry of Development, and do not go any further than the return of guarantee letters for works which have been successfully completed, nor do you give any new advances to support the liquidity of enterprises, as provided for by the New Democracy Act, No 3908. 4346/2013 and do not proceed with the projects that have already been completed. And I don't know if in 2016 you have predicted funds to pay back n's projects. Case 3299 Commission ν Italy 3908. We therefore have a government, which does not believe in private investment in practice, which does not show us an alternative, for example the EIP, which does not increase, we are spending a year of recession without having the necessary legislative instrument to support small and medium-sized enterprises, and it seems that we will not have it soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u65	Next is the fourth question Member, Mr Theodoros Fortsakis. Professor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the failed management of the NRP for the 2007-2013 programming period in the last year has made, as we all know, impossible to complete many of them, and this has a number of negative results that are generally borne by the Greek economy and, of course, the new NRP. I shall refer very briefly to the new ESDP and then say a few words on the impact of this issue, which we are discussing today on education. Firstly, as is apparent from the process of resolving the NRP programmes for the 2007-2013 programming period, part of the approximately EUR 20 billion of NRP funds for the 2014-2020 programming period is committed to carrying out old projects, either in the form of transport or in the form of a continuation through the so-called 'phasing', the bridge projects. Resources that could be allocated to new projects, new development actions, are committed. Thus, according to data from the Ministry of Economy provided under parliamentary control a few months ago, funds from the new programming period of EUR 1.5 billion appear to be available for three hundred and ninety projects carried and around EUR 3,1 billion for the three hundred thirteen phasing projects. Secondly, because of this mismanagement, some of the old projects will need to be completed with national resources and so we have a significant burden on the state budget in this difficult economic situation. According to reports, this amount appears to be close to EUR 2 billion. Thirdly, concrete projects are finalised and the implementation is referred to as "Greek bells", i.e. never. Fourthly, there is the question of the amount of resources that remain untapped. It is therefore necessary to give the Minister a detailed and up-to-date account of all the relevant information, and then responsibility must be attached to those who have caused the current situation. So the overall picture is far from being idyllic as the Ministry of Economy wishes to present it. You must not forget that the implementation of many of these programmes - which are not being implemented - has increased importance for our country, as they are infrastructure projects. These are features relating to the improvement of transport or the management of waste. Their non-completion has the effect of negatively affecting the everyday life and life of our fellow citizens. General mismanagement in relation to ESDP funds is also evident in the sensitive area of education. There are a number of shortcomings in the Greek state, especially in teachers. These deficiencies are not covered by permanent recruitment of teachers - as they should - nor by generous structural changes imposed, but by massive recruitment of assistant teachers, which are carried out annually and are renewed every year and who are substitutes paid by the NRP. No one, however, admits that this is how our education grows, that European funds are actually available to meet the constant needs of our educational system and that at some point when the relevant resources of the NRP are missing, we will find ourselves in a tragic deadlock, we will land in a perverse way. We have already dealt with this in specific areas in the country, where funds from the NSRP could not be made available to recruit substitute teachers with the result - as we all know - that we have an unprecedented inability to fill out the gaps that have occurred. To give another typical example on the NRP, I will refer to the approach of the former Minister of Education, Mr Aristides Baltas, in relation to the implementation of the digital school through the absorption of the NRP. His view, as published, was that the project concerned should suddenly be limited on the grounds not of his well-known preference for blackboard and chalk, but of making available the relevant funds to fill gaps in schools. It is interesting for the Minister for Finance to inform us of what has finally happened with these funds. Did they go to the digital school despite the opposite view of the former Minister of Education? Are they available to fill gaps in schools? Or did they just stay untapped? For the new programming period it is necessary not to repeat the mistakes of the past. The new ESDP is another important opportunity to strengthen the country's development and will put an end to the protracted economic crisis if it is properly used. This requires, among other things, that all interested parties be informed about the new programmes and the fight against bureaucracy by simplifying the relevant procedures. Above all, however, it is necessary to ensure economic stability, which is essential for the rapid implementation of projects. I conclude by saying that unfortunately recent events and all that is happening in Skouria give an extremely negative signal. My previous colleagues have mentioned and I will not expand, but the message that the government sends to all potential investors is extremely negative. He says to them: "Don't come here, it's lost trouble trying to invest in Greece." In conclusion, I would like to stress the self-evident point, because it seems that some are unable to understand it and understand it. The country's economic situation does not allow for any further delays, it does not allow other mistakes. A single euro must not be lost from the new ESDP. And we should all work together in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u67	There is the floor for the fifth honourable Member, Mr Thesprotia, Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u68	Minister, I think it is pointless to speak generally and vaguely who and whether he is responsible for the response of hundreds of projects from the previous NSRP. But the fact is, in 2015, left many open fronts in large and smaller projects of the ESRB. Major projects have faced serious problems, both in terms of the flow of funding and many bureaucratic involvements. Your co-government has been interrupted by many of these for six months. The attitude of payments has led to a loss of jobs and serious delays. On the Ionian Road, for example, which is an important project, it remains the problem of expropriations while it remains only fourteen months before the formal end of funding. The completion of the second phase projects at the port of Igoumenitsa has received a new extension for March 2017, pushing even further back the completion of the third phase of the port of Igoumenitsa, which, as far as I know, is still in the air. In 2015 we had smaller-scale projects offshore, but very important to local communities. Hailed projects came out in order to reduce, as you have said, the overcompensation of the funds. In the case of unusable otters, the construction of pedestrians in the Parathia has been thrown away and may have been declared a temporary broker, and let it be sealed with the sewerage project in this area, which, fortunately, is rescued in the new NSRF. As colleagues have referred to other aspects of the problem, I ask you briefly some questions. With these data, namely, the problems of liquidity and a lack of funds, how many are the resources of the new ESRB, which will be allocated to the financing of transport projects and of bridge projects and how many of them are concerned with 2016? Do you think that in the situation where our economy is, they will be able to be absorbed at this stage? I would also like you to tell us whether there is indeed agreement from the Commission on extending the eligibility of Community expenditure to all projects co-financed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u69	Me too, Mr. Yoyaka. We are arriving at the last colleague, Mr Stergio Giannakis, Deputy Prime Minister of the New Democracy. And because you're a new colleague and all three minutes won't say anything, I'll give you five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u70	I am not going to answer that question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u71	I have shown tolerance to everyone, and that also means to the parliamentary representatives and, if necessary, to the Minister, even though it has thirty-five minutes in total. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say this, but the situation in public works is the reflection of the failure of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to deal with any matter small or large. There is an endless politicology and paradoxical communication policy, which, however, leaves behind almost absolutely zero in terms of work. The problem with projects financed by the NSRF 2007-2013 has taken explosive proportions and is unfortunately related to all projects, from major motorways to small municipal projects. The fact that seventy-two co-financed projects are being transferred to the new NSRP 2014-2020, amounting to EUR 19.1 billion, is further exacerbating the problem, since we are practically lending from the future. In other words, we are reducing the new NSRF by the equivalent of 4.6 billion, as Mr Panagiotopoulos said before. So the new NSRP with the weights of the past starts at a starting point of less than 16 billion. I will only deal with two cases. As the first I will mention the cancellation of the Ioannina - Kalpaki - Kakavia that you leave him out of the EMS funding for the current 2014-2020 programming period. It was a project that would be the continuation of the much-conscious Ionian road to the Greek-Albanian border. It was a project of enormous importance for western Greece, for all of us and for our transnational transport. As the second case I will mention the part of Aktio - Ambrosia, where the four contractors are already closed six years and the project is still at 50%. You are talking about billions and you cannot even find the 15 million that are needed to give the traffic at least forty-and-a-half kilometres of that motorway, the importance of which we have often referred to in this Chamber, and I do not intend to repeat them. Minister, the big projects, the four motorways, the PPP projects for waste and so many others have almost ceased. But for you, it should not be very important, however, to undeclared reality. You've been presenting the black white one a year now. We only experience your idealism and populism. But this, you know, won't last for long. Your society has learned and society is punishing. Minister, you promised to implement the construction of the vertical axis connecting the city of Preveza to the Ionian road. It is a project his study had been launched since Stavros Kalogannis was responsible for the Secretary of State. The need for this project to be implemented has mobilised the whole of the local society, all the actors, but I too personally sent a letter to your predecessor. We hope and hope that there will be no more promise, but that it will be implemented, because it will bring the Prespecies to fruition from the transport sector, on the one hand, and on the other hand make maximum use of the benefits of the Ionian road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Giannakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the process is now as follows: Minister George Stathakis will answer for twenty minutes and then the parliamentary representatives will follow, with the first parliamentary representative of the questioning party, Mr Nikos Dendias, and the other Members will follow, starting with Mr Santorini, the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA. I have a request, Minister. Because I have heard very specific questions from colleagues concerning projects in their prefectures and they are not included in the original text of the question, who want to hear answers, because your colleagues are here, at least in your second language, if you can, give them specific answers. The Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism has the floor, Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, as much as the New Democracy is trying today, it cannot reverse the reality that one of the great successes of this government was the management of the ESDP this year. And this is the result of two statistics which are unthinkable and unthinkable. Greece was the first country to be absorbed in the European Union in 2015. However, for the whole of the previous NSRP period, it was again the first. He hadn't taken the lead in December last year - Mr. Augias probably won't accept the correction of the figures - but he was in the sixth place. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So this first poses some unrealistic problems to the New Democracy, because, firstly, success is a success. All the funds committed were rejected, the resources increased by 300 million, beyond the planned amount, in 2015 and thus absorbed 5 billion, which, I repeat, is a success and indeed without an extension. I would stress this, without prolongation of the ESDP. Obviously, throughout the first six months, New Democracy has invested a great deal in the idea of failing this issue because it has accused us, firstly, of not asking for an extension and that it was impossible to do so. I would remind you that the request for extension was raised from eight countries - not from Greece - last December and that we in April had discussed the matter with the Commission in detail. We knew that there would not be much room for extension. We did not submit a request to be rejected, but we did something more important. We changed the implementing regulation of the previous ESRB in the last year for Greece exceptionally, so that we could absorb all the money within the time period and achieve it. The third issue that the government was accustomed to us at the time and it proved to be a mistake, is the initiatives we have taken. Recapture what we did from January to today with the NSRF. Firstly, in April we reviewed all the projects that have come to us from previous governments. Can I tell you what we inherited from New Democracy? I'll tell you the evidence. The previous NSRP money was 24 billion. The projects that had joined were - hold -36 billion, 156%. I also reply to Members about the work that is being done. They had joined for 100 euros, projects worth 156 euros, and because that was not just on paper, legal commitments - 'conventions' that is - were 29.6 billion euros or 124%. How would this programme be implemented in the last nine months? I repeat the question: How would you implement a programme that had 156% planned projects and 124% contracts? Absorption? Much underneath it. So what did the government do? First act. In April he said: All the projects in the NRP are classified into three categories: first, what will be completed by 31 December. Secondly, what will go through in the next ESDP because it is not time to complete third-party responses. We are taking out the projects which are not in one case or another to thrive. We got the cost of the answers. Since April we have made it public. We made eight hundred nine works from the NSRF, and we did well. We do not use the NSRF for rheumatological purposes, whatever work it is, where it is, whatever it is, to enter and then to have that image. That's what we did. Since April, then, we have been clear. These will be completed, they will go to the next phase and they will be answered. Percentage of success in implementing this decision 98%. What we said was going to be completed is over. And I come to the second initiative that we have taken since April, in very difficult circumstances - we all recognise that. The second initiative, which we have also taken on the initiative of the Commission, was the agreement to increase the funds for the old ESDP by replacing national funding, to double the financing of the advances for the next, plus a third important point. Firstly, the increase in loans for the old ESRB by the European Investment Bank and a new 1 billion loan, which proved to be extremely critical and decisive for the smooth development that we made the request, I think, at the end of May - early June and in September was approved by the EIB. This 1 billion is the way, which together with the enlargement of the previous loan allowed us to have a high liquidity and to be able to facilitate the implementation of the ESRB. That's what we did, it looks like it's a success. However, we have taken other measures. The NSRF money has been isolated from other money in the Bank of Greece, so they could not go for any other use. And there was a series of other measures more typical. The result of this cycle was two things: that the liquidity problems faced by the Greek economy and the freezing of works that had occurred in June, July, we solved them from 1 August. Because from 1 August we started to have a flow of ESDP resources to the recipients of 1 million per day, then became 2 million per day and then in September we went to 10 million per day and as soon as the loan process was completed, we reached the record, which was October, November and December, which led - I repeat - to the full absorption of all available resources and of the EDP and structural resources to reach the result of the absorption of 5 billion in the second half of 2015. So, the situation we received, we corrected it. Secondly, we have taken all steps to deal with rapid absorption. Thirdly, we achieved the 100% targets, mobilising all available resources and overcoming the great problem, all the projects to be implemented by 31 December without any possibility of prolonging them. Now we go to the second point, which is also the honourable Members' question, the transport projects and phasing projects. Are we charged with why we didn't finish the Thessaloniki subway until December 31st? The motorways that are third programming period and are not included? Are we accused of phasing into projects, which were absolutely unlikely to be completed and the dilemma was the answer? Remind the New Democracy what phasing had in its original designs? It's 3.5 billion. So what exactly are we accused of? That in time we made this plan, we made it clear, and we said that it would go that way? That even projects subject to phasing maximized absorption, for example on motorways? That we received 350 million special loan from the European Investment Bank for motorways in May and we started project payments to speed up? So, as to the idea that with phasing and projects to be carried, we are losing, I repeat that we have minimized what we have found, in 3.5 we have done it 1 billion, and in fact we have fallen in this area as well, which was planned. I repeat for the management of the NSRP that it is difficult to find points of criticism. The opposite is true. I go into the more general that was set before I arrived and will close to the third part of my speech on the new ESDP. You have raised a number of general issues concerning either the development law - Mr Mettarakis - or the possibility and how determined it is to go ahead with private investment, the issue of ELDORADO and dozens of other issues relating to the government's determination to do what it has undertaken to do, of course to promote private investment and, at the same time, to defend the public interest. But I will start with the development law as a whole. If we received what we told you, in development law, we received a much worse situation. The commitments of the two previous development laws were 6.5 billion, i.e. the state owes investors, those who have completed, those who are in progress and those who will complete within the planned years 6.5 billion. How much money did we have on the fund? We had 1 billion, and that's frozen. Why? Because the Commission blames the Ministry's services - on old governments - for being corrupt. So I found in the fund a billion euros, i.e. zero, because it was frozen. The current debts are really difficult to calculate. Last estimate says we owe EUR 2.5 billion to investors. This is what we received from the New Democracy. What did we do? Firstly, we have unleashed the EUR 1 billion with a lot of struggle and a lot of effort and a restructuring plan for the services. Secondly, we are trying to put a order in this chaotic system that is slow, very bureaucratic and weak to achieve what it promised, namely to carry out controls on those who have completed, etc. Thirdly, it is extremely bureaucratic and, indeed, to such an extent that whatever the investor has done, it may be possible to consider that he has failed to implement the investment properly and to deprive him of the legal subsidy. For all these three questions we have announced what changes we have made, what we are going to make and what we will do for the two old development laws. The first is that we are giving no time extensions, only reasonable extensions to those who have the opportunity to make 50% of their investment. They'll get an extension. The others will endure. So this is a way of clarifying old development laws. Secondly, we have secured resources so that we can cover the old debts once they have been completed. Thirdly, we have announced that we will mobilise two hundred additional engineers and economists from the Technical Chamber and the Chamber of Economics as partners to speed up the process of evaluating the old projects, as well as a number of other issues aimed at simple, obvious and self-evident, to correct a chaotic situation that we have received, to make it transparent and at the same time effective and rapid. We must therefore close these two old chapters, which, I repeat, it is difficult to think of as being the best legacy. So the way in which previous governments strengthened private investment can be judged, if anything, rather ineffective. And it is difficult for the government, which is also taking all the management initiatives to restore this dimension. But we are preparing a new development law, not in secret. We started him in the second half of 2015. We have consulted with a hundred and twenty bodies across Greece, Thessaloniki, with chambers, etc. It is a subject of extensive consultation - so everything but in secret we do - and we intend to legislate, as we have said, at the beginning of this year. It will be a completely different development law, with other philosophy, not horizontal, but targeted, very simple, unwritten, as far as it doesn't get. It will give strong incentives to large foreign investment in terms of the stability of tax regimes for seven years with a peak of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, innovation, technology and all that now constitute eight, nine sectors of the economy which we believe should be given priority. So the law will come with a new philosophy and it will be much better and more effective in strengthening private investment than the previous development laws. I would also like to say a few words on the issue of 'ELDORADO'. Is the New Democracy in favour of making its binding investment or not? I repeat: ELDORADO is obliged to do two things and does not do so. Firstly, to build a vertical and processing plant under the contract and, secondly, to comply with certain environmental rules under certain conditions. I do not raise the issue of tax immunity. They are works and days of old governments that did the contracts as they did. Are you in favour of making investments imposed by its contractual obligation or not? And if you think that for a company, despite the difficulties, it is this government today, what have you been doing for so many years? Why didn't you solve these problems? Why didn't the investment take place? Why have you not proceeded with complying with the contractual obligations, as planned, with the timetable laid down for your day? Unless it signs the State a contract with a company and is under continuous heresy by the company. But in this case - and I suppose we and everyone in this Chamber - have a good look at what is well known as 'public interest'. So let's not run behind a few options the company makes. The government's position is quite clear. The government wants dialogue and a coordinate framework in which the three, four problems are solved. That's the government's position. If you want to be identified in the way and with the tactical that this company has, it is your right. So are we prosecuting or inviting investments? I would tell you that at the same time as this noise of prosecuting investment, huge investments are being made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u75	Who? Tell us about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u76	We have hotel units. Foreign institutional investors have been placed with 500 million these days. In a group of Halkidiki large investors were placed with a view to upgrading all of this tourist network.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u77	In particular, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u78	You know him very well. I don't have to say names in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u79	Do you have any evidence to give?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u80	Of course I do. And I've got a lot more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u81	So say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u82	In the last few weeks, therefore, investment funds have been placed in significant existing, operating and upgraded tourist enterprises in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u83	Can you speak in particular, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u84	You're welcome. It is therefore a form of acidification that, on the one hand, we are pushing away and, on the other hand, we are saying that there is, for various reasons, a strong foreign investment activity on Greek enterprises, which are in the process of development, restructuring, etc. Another issue that was raised for the use of the NSRP is the question of education and assistant teachers. I repeat for once that: we have not reduced the educational potential of primary and secondary education. Some applied some measures, cuts, maybe too violent. We thought it was very violent cuts. This can be positive for the newly elected President of the New Democracy. But why are you blaming us? We found an educational system that had huge gaps in primary and secondary education. There was no way of hiring the permanent staff we want and we should hire - we would agree on this - and we mobilised the ESRB to hire substitutes. What were we supposed to do exactly? Needs are great. You know them. They are fifteen to twenty thousand teachers. That's the void, recorded, that's what we inherited, and we handled it through the deputies. This has happened for this year with the prospect - what we want and will do - to set a time plan with time - as in health and education - so that the necessary, permanent three-year, four-year, which I hope will be completed in order to cover this problem. This will, of course, be done on the basis of the budgetary constraints, which we have as a country and as a government, but which has room to resolve this problem with what we all imagine is the recruitment of permanent teachers and teachers. With this data, let me close with two comments on the new ESDP. In my dentext I will first come back to individual projects, which, in fact, we had dealt with at the expense of overcompensation of the next NRP by 250 % for infrastructure projects. I repeat that we are making progress in projects which are 100%, with a normal 110%, but not more. We plan differently. The new programming period - I repeat - begins on the basis of the law that New Democracy had passed in December 2014. However, this law required a secondary framework of decisions, which I think - to make sense - we did everything on time. So the start of the new ESDP has become essentially from September, October. There's been a process. The first three major programmes, 330,000,000 euros, have been launched. All the current, humanitarian crisis, etc., which is in operation and has produced this secondary framework. At the same time, we have forged - I repeat for once - the advance payments for the new ESRB exceptionally for Greece from 7% to 14%, which gives us 2 billion for 2015-2016. That's the data. The notices go fast. And, unfortunately, once again, we had the first time in launching the new ESDP according to the December data! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism Mr. Georgios Stathakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-five students and two educational sessions from the 1st General High School of Haldikas (A' and II' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would also like to inform you that, for the debate on this question, Mr Nicholas Dendias, from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, from the Democratic Group, Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Manolis Synthrakis, from Potamis, Mr. Spyros Danelis, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos and from the Union of Kentronos, Mr. Georgios Karras. We shall now proceed to the positions of the parliamentary representatives. The first is Mr Nikolaos Dendias from the New Democracy. You have 12 minutes for your first talk, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that I have listened very carefully to Minister George Stathakis, who has an academic eloquence, which allows him to present things in a specific and, if you like, charming, academic way for the listener. By listening to the Minister, I sincerely to the end of his speech I felt the need to rise up from the seat of the parliamentary representative and apologize to him, because it is obvious that we in the opposition have taken the wrong view. We are in a country that thrives, where everything runs on time, accurately, in time, where investments, Minister, obviously flow, where the investment climate is bright. And there is a populist and curious living not in a real world, but in an ideal world, opposition, which is afflicted by badly timely questions from the National Parliament. That's what you told us. Everything's perfect. It's all been perfect. There is no slight omission. The subject of "ELDORADO GOLD" - alas! - It doesn't matter. The company is responsible for not fulfilling its contractual obligations towards the Greek State. In fact, you put the opposition before its responsibilities, whether it agrees with the illegal company, or whether it disagrees with the illegal company. Honestly, we can't. We obviously don't all live in the same country. Either we or the government have slowly acquired a distance from reality. Honestly, it would be very good for the place - let us, New Democracy - the distance from the reality of the opposition. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case. Unfortunately, what is happening - and I sincerely regret to see it - is that the government is slowly governed by political retreat, which happens many times under great pressure and reality. You're creating an imaginary world of your own, self-limited. And when your eloquence and your intelligence helps, this world makes it convincing for yourself first, and then you try to make it convincing for others. But that is ultimately disastrous, because not only has it not happened what has to be done, you haven't done your job, but the worst thing is that the government thinks it's providing services at the place and things are going well. And this is more tragic than coming here to tell us: "In any case, put back, things are hard" or: "Here or there we need your help" or, if you want: "Here or there we missed" or: "The investment climate is not good, we can all see how we can improve it together." With regard to the absorption of the ESRB - let us start a little bit on these - there was, indeed, absorption of the ESRB and in 2015, as exceptional absorption was in previous years. And why was this stigma of the 2015 absorption in the ESRB when all the other things in the country collapsed? That's well known. I don't need to talk. The banks are closed. There is no need to consume the time of the National Representation, to prove that the Greek economy in 2015 literally collapsed. That was because it was simply in agreement with the European Union - and it was very well agreed - that 15%, which had remained as national funding, should not be paid. Thus, the whole of European money was taken without national participation - there was no possibility, moreover, - so that European money could be absorbed, but fewer projects were made, and obviously the NRP did not work in the way it was going to and should have worked when it was first arrested. And this, the state of need, that is, a fact, is presented as a great national success, as government adequacy. It's not like that. We all know it's not like that. And most of all, the Minister knows it's not like that. From that point on, let's go a little bit on what's going on in general. I say again that the government received a Code of Public Contracts, n. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of This Code has not been applied. The Public Procurement Code in Greece is not applicable or revised by incorporating the new Directives. It's not just doing anything. The ESIB and KIMDES electronic procedures for public procurement do not apply. The country doesn't have a single procurement program. In the past, it was considered to be a maximum step forward for the country to have a single public procurement programme. What does that mean, to speak practically and understand the average man? Instead of buying each other separately at any price, with separate, small tenders, the state operates as a single customer, as a single buyer, who can achieve better prices and achieve transparency. The country does not have a single public procurement programme on that Government. As regards the framework for business authorisations: 42622014, which had been voted on, in our view in the New Democracy is a huge innovation. It gave the possibility of reducing bureaucracy. In fact, the first implementing NSA had already been issued. It was, however, completely abandoned not only as a legislative framework but also as a target. The simplification of authorisations to companies operating in Greece no longer exists as a government target nor as a governmental perception, nor is it obviously of interest to the government to do so or, of course, to explain what else it places as a target for combating bureaucracy. In order to eradicate the debts of businesses, we have discussed them with the Minister and with the Government in the debate on the last legislative initiative. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4307/2014 did not apply for a whole year! Of course the government shows here that this law, which was kind enough to call it "law of Treasury" because it was lodged with my signature, was not implemented because the necessary acts had not been adopted. That's not accurate. Mr. Screkas, who succeeded me at the Ministry of Development, even published the literature. The government has just done the worst possible: First it promised the market that it will revise it on the best, with the result - and rightly so - that all borrowers have no reason to fall under this law. The government said to them: "Don't hurry! I'll get you something much better than that." And in the end he did nothing at all, but he took the last initiative of the last regulation on the possibility of transferring red loans to specific funds, which, of course, is understandable, but it is not the first and only step you take, but the last one. In fact, I must tell you that for us, in the New Democracy and in the Liberal Party, it was particularly interesting to see this particular measure proposed by the Government of the first time left. In other words, we have seen the transfer of red loans to the funds from here to the rapporteur from the SYRIZA party, who - not as a natural person, but as a political entity - only with the word 'fund' to the previous sessions of the previous Vulks, was standing up and shouting at us insults of the "Germany" type - you know these - and various other things, such as the 'foreign slaves', etc. And now it comes up and recommends the transfer of red loans to the funds! Ladies and gentlemen, there is an unfortunate reality: the country in 2014 arrived - you want with the mistakes of the Samara government, you want with the difficulties of the Samara government, you want with the failures of the Samara government - thanks to the great efforts of the Samara government at the beginning of the take-off of the national economy. All indicators had improved and it was evident that in 2015 the country would return to growth. After the election of SYRIZA, in January 2015, the country returned to the recession, the country's banking system was dissolved in its first composition, a large national capital - the existence of a network of Greek banks in the Balkans and Turkey - has ceased to exist, billions of Greek taxpayers as their property in the shareholder's composition of banks have been eliminated, the country has returned to a deep recession, total national melancholy has taken over everyone, national capital abroad has been completely devalued and the name of the country anywhere in the world is synonymous - unfortunately! - only by bankruptcy. Also, in immigration, the government dismantled what it found, despite the warnings we have repeatedly made with all the good will to help the government in any way we could. They have turned the country into a gateway to everything, even any jihadists to Europe, without taking into account anything from the international reality. Thanks to them, the role of Turkey by Mr Erdogan has been fully upgraded. Turkey is now Europe's main interlocutor in the Eastern Mediterranean. There's no one who's questioning this. Greece is a parable, an annoying one. This is the position in which the present government has condemned us. And all this in the name of another road and another, better perspective of the Greek people. Where we are now, I would like to ask the government or rather to ask the government, because I think the pleas I have constantly made in 2015 have not been heard, to come back to reality. It must be understood that this road, this course, does not lead somewhere, it must understand what the new leader of the New Democracy said the other day, Mr Mitsotakis, said in his speech to our parliamentary group that the country needs 100 billion foreign investments. And these 100 billion foreign investments will never come to Greece if foreign companies enjoy the treatment of "ELDORADO GOLD". Because if the government's problem - as the non-responsible minister put it at this stage, but responsible for the development of the economy - is that ELDORADO GOLD wants to do things, but the government is also late, because ELDORADO GOLD does not make the investment, that is to say, that Mr Skourletis is calling out and saying 'forward, greater investment in Greece, more work in Greece, more employees in Greece', then all of us and the company have understood something wrong. What actually happens is that the government at every stage of its activities is trying to create an alibi for something else. At the moment, the government needs an alibi for its handling of insurance. I think we're all relatively good memory. Besides, things are recent, it doesn't need much memory capital for that. The government, which had promised a third pension, etc., is now called upon to manage the EUR 300 pensions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So he has to find left countermeasures. But I think it is advisable that the left countermeasures should not be the country's economic future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u87	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Nikolao Teddy. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, is now following for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u88	Mr. President, six minutes? Twelve minutes did Mr. Dendias and I say six?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u89	Yes, he spoke so much, because he is a parliamentary representative of the party asking the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u90	The world is not fair, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, you can understand that for matters that Mr Denkias has raised is too short a time. But what actually happened is that Mr. Dendias - and he did well - did not deal with the text of the topical question, because it is not in the interest of the opposition to deal with this text. Because, frankly, reading the timely question text prepared to come, it automatically came to my mind to thank its author, because he obviously gives - unwittingly to him - the possibility of realizing who is out of reality in this Chamber. Of course, observing the date of submission, I understood that it did not have such a noble motive, but is part of a populist logic, the slashing of the government in terms of Officerial Anti-Population, which was launched by a Scandal newspaper, the 'BILD' of Germany, and continued with your MEP, Mrs Spyraki, who asked the same question to the European Parliament. It would be expected that none of the party that had the responsibility for designing the NSRF 2007-2013 and along with its government partner was really the one that had the sole responsibility for implementing it to be much more careful in haunting his questions. Even more careful should be the author of the topical question, when he asks what will become of the projects under the Third Community Support Framework, which had already been a bridge project from the 3rd Community Support Framework in the NSRF 2007-2013. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been so incompetent that you have failed to complete projects of strategic importance, such as all road concession projects during two programming frameworks. Your inability could cost us the requirement to repay all the Community funding that has been used for them. You know very well that the regulation on financial programmes does not allow these projects to be transferred to the new ESDP, we cannot transfer them to three essentially programming frameworks. However, let us inform you that these projects will be completed by March 2017, so that we do not stay with unfinished projects for seventeen years after the start of the first programming framework in which they had joined. Really, for this incompetence, will you tell us how much the damage suffered by the country is? I would like to mention now what the situation of the NSRP was when we took over. You had overcompensated the programme with 10 billion euros projects. Of these, 4 billion, a year before the end of the programme, had no legal commitments. In fact, they could not even start, while most of the projects, the remaining 6 billion of their overcompensation, were projects with terrible delays, which had only absorbed little money from the legal commitment. I think Mr Giannakis has referred to one of them, which says that for six years he has not been absorbed despite 50%. So there's a problem with this project. This proves how you incorporated immature works, even a few days before the elections, just to satisfy your electoral clientele. Some of these projects, in the process of resolving the programme, we had to respond. The Minister said so a long time ago. Now you, very hypocritically, are denouncing these answers. That's your right. You know, of course, within you that they could not be implemented. The rest of the projects are those which are part of the new programming period either as transported or as bridge projects. And speaking of transport and bridge works, I would remind you that it is not a new method. From the Third Community Support Framework in the NRP, for which we are discussing, you carried 4.5 billion as bridge works, so let the tears be missing. Unfortunately, this is your sad contribution to the new programming period. But the worst thing is not that you don't understand how mismanagement you've been doing. The worst thing is that you are also asking us for the change in the inability to implement projects that - as you say - have been pending for decades. You are accusing us that in a year's time we have not been able to implement projects that you have not been able to implement in these decades that you have been running. That's what it's like. Ladies and gentlemen, in the text of your question you put the view that the provision for absorption of 4.5 billion shows the great distance that separates the government from reality. Well, you were right. We did not manage to absorb EUR 4.5 billion, but EUR 5 billion. We waited today for you to have corrected it in your texts, but you did not. It's okay. Overall, 6.4 billion euros were allocated in 2015 to the real economy. We're talking about 100% of the EDP. We've covered all the absorption targets in all the operational programs. They invaded the country EUR 2.3 billion of Community assistance, 250 million more than you had budgeted. And to remind you that in the Third Community Support Framework, despite the fact that you had made two extensions, you lost 1 billion in the end. Ladies and gentlemen, all the evidence shows that if you had continued until the closure of the programme, we would have lost national resources. Now with the hard work of the investment staff, not even 1 euro has been lost. To your great disappointment - we understand - we are the ones who brought the country first to absorb resources of the NSRP, while in 2014 - we were wrong to hear from Mr Augarians - it was sixth. We are the first and only country to have an approved management and control system for all 2014-2020 programmes. And so we are the only country that can submit payment claims for all the programs of the period until the end of December 2015. We are sure that with our own management the new ESDP will be more efficient and more useful for the country and for the citizens. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the question of how much the failures in the management of the ESRB cost should not have been addressed to us, but to you, because we managed to collect in a short time the uncoupled ones you left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u92	Thank you Mr. Nektarios Santorinios, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. We are now giving Mr Ilias Cassidyri, Parliamentary spokesman from the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u93	It is a pretext that under the rule of SYRIZA - ANEL there is absolutely no work done in the country. All the productive structures of Greece have been levelled. The private sector has fallen. All professionals or rather not all professionals, all small- and medium-sized professionals, have been persecuted by every means, and public life pimps have been left unpredictable. I shall refer in many detail, then, to this matter. It is unfair, of course, to say that the NRP is not being exploited on SYRIZA, because we saw only yesterday in the police report that a SYRIZA member, a candidate for membership of the SYRIZA, was arrested, despite a few members of the SYRIZA, from Tripoli, who was taking privatizations to promote, give money from the ESRB to citizens. So there is use for corrupt people who belong to the party of power. Tsipras appeared to tell us that there should no longer be any, that the party rule and the family rule in Greece must be stopped. Immediately after he went and appointed his cousin, in a neural position for the Greek state, his cousin, he went and appointed to an unexistent DECLAY the husband of Kafantari, after he had appointed a director to the EYDAP the husband, partner, attendant - I don't know - of the Dourou, appointed his forgiveness, as Gerovasili to go to the buds and make consumption of flowers and go out to the ERT and cause the Greek people with her style. All this has been done on SYRIZA. Of course, the New Democracy has no right to speak. There is no right for the New Democracy to dare opposition to the ESDP. Because the 2007-2013 ESRB scandal is a criminal offence, it is a crime involving participants in this crime and PASOK and New Democracy. No one said this today, no one spoke of the substance of the problem, that half of the NSRP's funds for construction went to Bobola. They went to so-called 'national contractors', which are both canalarchs and destroy Greece. We will, of course, mention specific elements here. Robola's construction company "ELLACTOR" received 50% of the total funds of the ESRB. We are talking about the mythical sum of EUR 6 billion for the period we are discussing today. It is no coincidence that the New Democracy was interested today in what is going on with this money, because the biggest funder of the political system has taken black money from banks, has taken illegal money from the NSRF. They manage all these huge funds two - three people in a Greece that collapses. The same people are on the Lagard list, the same faces. The Bombola family is in the infamous $2 billion account of the Lagard list, run by Zionist Myoni, a friend of the Papastavros, for which after a year and a half the judicial authorities at last demanded that he give back three million euros, of the five and a half that he could not justify. But let's go to the N.R.R.A. The three large construction groups "ELLACTOR", "TERNA" and "VAX" provided billions of Community funds in the period 2007-2013, themselves or even through a vagina that they do with networks and subsidiaries. In addition to the ten billion - about half of the NSRP - shared by the three large groups, there are tens of other millions of euros - and this is a major scandal in a country that produces absolutely nothing - which was given to consultants, public companies, advertising companies, projects that in no way promote the country's productive reconstruction. And this is a matter for a timely question, this is a matter for parliamentary scrutiny. Repeatedly, the Golden Dawn has raised these issues. However, there is never a Minister coming here to answer the questions raised by the Golden Dawn Association. Even now the Minister of Government has left because he cannot hear the truths that hurt both the government and so - called Opposition. So listen, to freak out, how the NSRF was distributed between 2007 and 2013, and none of the previous speakers mentioned this issue. From the budget line of EUR 12.9 billion, small construction companies, in addition to the interests of Bobola and Psychras, received only EUR 441 million. How can the Greek economy move forward, when such injustices occur, which touch the limits of illegality? The 'national contractors', which are also 'national canalarchs', absorbed EUR 9.5 billion for construction, half of the ESDP package, 90% of the money that went to construction projects. The collection of these funds by three construction groups often does not appear directly, because these funds appear to be collected from dozens of companies, which are in fact joint ventures and cooperatives between them. For example, the companies of the group "ELLACTOR" make partnerships with companies of "VAX" and "TERNA" and create new companies that take the projects. It is, in fact, the Bobolas and the Plenipotentiary who share all these billions of euros. More specifically, ELLACTOR took over EUR 3.1 billion, plus EUR 1.2 billion, plus EUR 2.678 000 million and AVAX of around EUR 2 billion. The same people do not only take them from the NSRF, they take them from the banks at the same time as from the sea-fashioned banks, for which the previous sinful rule of Samara - Venizelou passed special law, to exempt bankers, who have given sea-fashioned loans even to parties. It is a law which, despite the assurances we have received a long time ago from the Minister responsible, has not yet been abolished by the present government. The present Government was committed to denounce all these contracts in favour of the national contractors or, rather, of the "pimps" of Greece. He didn't do anything at all. He said he'd get the channel licenses back. No permission will be given, at least as far as Bobola, Alfouzo and all the big heads are concerned, which unfortunately continue the bleeding of Greece's public wealth today. It's not just the N.S.S.A., of course. It is a major issue of funds from European funds. Not to mention the European Asylum and Immigration Fund, from which millions of non-existent non-governmental organisations share too much suspicion, with anti-national work, responsible for the current anti-Greek situation, that we will soon be a minority within our country. I would also like to refer to the Skouries, because the Minister responsible spoke about this, too. It is, of course, a diversion of this issue, which is now being created in the channels. Because the locker's throat comes, SYRIZA wants to show his left audience something. In practice, what about the Squirrels? This colonial convention must be denounced. ELDORADO and Halkidiki Halkidiki have no place in Greece if this investment does not collect money from the Greek State. There is therefore a new convention, and of course the exploitation of Greece's mineral wealth must go ahead for the benefit of the Greek people and no one else. That's what Golden Dawn wants. Outside the "pimps" from Greece, outside the International Monetary Fund from Greece. This is not, of course, going to happen with a SYRIZA government, because, as long as there are subordinate governments in our country, we will be governed by international loan sharks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Cassidy. We shall proceed with Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Partnership, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. On the occasion of the New Democracy debate, which has to do with the projects carried forward, I think there can be a real discussion on the subject of the ESRB, but not on the logic - which I think Mr Stathakis has also exceeded - 'we are the best, there is no one but us'. To have a real conversation - I hope - with the Minister, to whom he likes the field, 'to speak in general, never in particular' and 'we were saying other things, but we did, well we did now, people love us, they like what we do, so we go ahead'. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, we as a Democratic Integration - and the Minister knows so, although he has not mentioned it - have helped creatively with development law and with the NRP, so that the country can absorb resources. But not just to absorb them, because behind absorption, added value hides employment in various sectors of the economy. So the first issue is the law on the new ESRB, which was passed last time. And while SYRIZA said it would change him, he said that the new NSRF is pharaonic, after six months in Mr Stathakis' logic, which has prevailed in SYRIZA, is not pharaonic, the NSRF - it is your statement, Minister - 'We do it well, it is the law that we are moving forward'. Well done, Minister. You do well to move on. The second issue. Overcompensation. It's a very basic issue in your argument. You always say that. You don't come back later. You said today that overcompensation was 156%. Mr Haritsis and Mr Kokkolis were two - three months ago in the Committee of the Regions. Mr. Korokolis, your Secretary-General, says that "Mr. Konstantinopoulos referred to a number, that the resolution in the summer of 2014 reached 2.3 billion". Not 10 billion, Mr. Santorinier. The numbers are said by the Minister, pick up the numbers, don't spread them. 'Supercommitment is at 2.3 billion' - and Mr Constantinople rightly says - 'is at 125 billion'. You've downloaded the overlinks to 125, not 156.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u96	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u97	Wait a minute. I was the one who signed it. I am putting the resolution in Parliament on 8 August 2014, which entered regional policy, the DG Regio, that is, where the total phasing is 2.379 000 million and is in agreement with the European Commission. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I urge you, Minister, to submit your own resolution. Of course, the first resolution took place a year ago. You guys had to do a reorganization. That's right, that's right. I ask you to submit the resolution paper you sent to the European Commission. Second theme: National participation. The Minister and SYRIZA say that it is a great success to reduce national participation. What does it mean to reduce national participation, which had not occurred in previous years? Reduction of national participation in the other countries of the European Union are fewer projects. Minister, I need you to tell me the number, to understand how minus it is because of national involvement. Let's go to second, Minister. There is a system, ladies and gentlemen, the OPC, the Integrated Information System. It's very simple. No one can change it. I give you what I have from 7-1-2015. I want you to testify yours today. It says that for the NSRF 2007-2013 together with the INTERREG and all that, they were given for the NSRF 2007-2013- were payments from the Bank of Greece, as you know, Mr Haritsis, it is not my number -17.4 billion. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Please submit us today's OPS and tell us what point payments to the NRP 2007-2013 have reached us today in absolute numbers. I don't know how much it is. I expect you, Minister, to tell me in your dentistry. I filed the number. The OPC is 17,473 billion. It is payment details dated 7-1-2015. I invite you to deposit today's paper. Secondly, Minister, I would like to tell you this because there are a number of things about the Investment Programme and all this, because you have absorbed the Public Investment Programme. I want to make a request to you to Mr. Corkoli. I asked Mr Kokkolis, together with other colleagues, and he sends us an answer to the information we want to find in the 'DENMARK'. Minister, I will re-submit the question and hope and hope that, when a Member asks, we do not send him to "DIAGY" to find the evidence, send them to him by the Services and the competent, Mr. Corkolis. Because it has been signed by Mr. Corkoli - I would ask you to give us the evidence to see where the money went. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So in the NRP 2014-2020, which you have back OPs, I would like to tell you that payments are currently no more than 230 million, of which 30 million are technical assistance. For those who know what technical assistance is - the 30 million - you would have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u98	A billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u99	Bring me the OPS. Please bring the OPS payments. Minister, I'm in a good mood. Bring what's registered on the OPS, the Integrated Information System. Mr. Minister, you are always relaxed, you are a little bit in logic: general, a little wine, a little sea and my girl and all together, and we will be able to find them, and, okay, from here "my brothers, bums, birds" and all of this. I'm telling you something very simple. Minister, I say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u100	Those are the numbers. Either it's 300,000 or it's a billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u101	But that's what I'm telling you. Minister, I want you to believe. We believe you. Bring us today's OPS for 2014-2020 to see what payments you have and understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u102	Slow down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u103	As you said the numbers: 17.4 billion we gave on 5-1-2015. You say you absorbed another 6 billion. And you did very well. And we want to help with this. We immediately before the end of the year told you to come to the Ministry, Minister, to support you and tell you opinions. You didn't call us, there's no problem. We want you to tell us where the 6 billion went. Where'd you do it? Where did the payments come from? So people can figure out exactly what's happened. We're not asking for anything else. Bring the OPS, ask your partners - Mr. Haritsis knows this - to print us out the current IT system, to see where we are. Minister, because in the budget on page 89 of the ICC you have put that legal overcompensation unfortunately is 0.7 billion, for projects under 5 million, because as you know the NRP 2007-2013 was paid, there is no other account and the NRP account, as you agreed with the European Commission, is a separate, locked account, I very much fear that you have to make payments, you have legal commitments of 7.4 billion and you have 5.2 billion. You're missing two billion. Disprove me. I am referring to projects under 5 million. We might be wrong. I am very afraid that you will have 2 billion on the national side for the next two years and not the co-financed, because the co-financed does not exist, there is only for 2014-2020. Please testify to this, so that we can help and help us and the world understand what the government has to do in the next few years. I hope the information I have asked you to give, so that we can all understand what has happened to the ESDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. We proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Both the current government and the previous ones, the New Democracy and the PASOK, have admittedly produced too many delusional and expectations, that the ESDP is a tool for development that will lead the Greek economy out of the crisis. In fact, over the past seven years, Greece has taken 20 billion euros. The question is this funding, this fatal, prevented the manifestation of the capitalist crisis from happening? Did it stir up the collapse of professionals, craftsmen, traders, poor farmers? Did he prevent wage cuts? Did it improve the living conditions of the people? Oh, no. On the other hand, the funds were added to tax exemptions, subsidies, other advantages to pluralism, and ultimately contributed to the overcompensation of funds, which were the cause of the crisis. You told us about the absorption of EUR 5 billion. Good. To what benefit will the worker, the farmer, the small- and medium-sized one benefit? Nothing will benefit from this story. And now the government comes and tells us that this money goes to boost growth, competitiveness, extroversion and transition to innovative entrepreneurship. That's what the PASOK and the New Democracy said. They don't say anything different. Only these are claims made by the institutions of the capital, such as the Association of Greek Industrialists. When we told you: "Financing from the'sugar industry' Rural Development Programme, Community funding, 'to be given to restore the sugar industry', you said: 'It is not possible, it is not eligible'. These are, therefore, the main pillar of financing to enhance competitiveness and profitability of the monopolistic groups, domestic, Euro-Union, on the basis of the guidelines set by the European Union Strategy every time and now the anti-popular agenda of the Europe 2020 strategy. These are guidelines that the Greek Governments are in touch with and specialize in. In fact, you are preparing a whole arsenal with development laws, investment, tax and loan facilities, bill to make the climate more prosperous and prosperous, a bill with money laundering, mainly aimed at channeling the new NSRF 2014-2020 to business groups. But this money, ladies and gentlemen, is not falling out of the sky. It is money that came out with the blood and sweat of the people and is given in addition to the tax exemptions and subsidies of pluralism. The recipient of these European funds is sure that it is not the people. In fact, I will tell you that, from 1980 until now, 360 billion has been allocated from Community packages. Where did they go? Did the people benefit from anything? Oh, no. They benefited from the monopolistic groups. Has regional disparities, sectoral imbalances, been tackled? Has social inequalities been alleviated? A number of important needs have been addressed that would improve the quality of life of the working people's family? Where, then, is this development, which the New Democracy and PASOK have been engaged in and now is the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence? This money will not be made, nor will there be flooding projects, schools, hospitals, infrastructures that the people need, nor will the social structures of the municipalities be strengthened, forest protection, water, land improvement. He didn't take the slightest line for the earthquake shielding of a seismic country. How much was, in fact, given to regions such as Western Greece or the Region of Crete - earthquake regions - and elsewhere? How many schools are built in the 1920s, in the 1930s and in the 1950s and yet they have children in them? These are not eligible projects, however, so they are not financed. Their rules and priorities put the interests and needs of monopolistic groups. And from this process, not all of Greece wins. Capitalists win. This is the development you all employ. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the NRP 2007-2013 ended on 32-12-2015, without any other extension or bridge programme, which will transfer to the Partnership Agreement 2014-2020 the rest of the financing of projects that have not been able to absorb it for any reason. On the other hand, only to the extent that part of the work has been completed, which can be considered self-sufficient, then only the rest of the work, which will be self-sufficient for the same reason, will be able to join the Partnership Agreement, to the extent that it meets the new, more stringent, but indeed much more stringent criteria of eligibility and hereditaryity of the Partnership Agreement. This reality translates into decay. Half-finished projects, with doubtful prospects of integration, redemption of allowances and unpaid workers for completed work. Indeed, we have tabled a corresponding question, Mr Minister, on 18 December and we are awaiting your answers. The actual number of ESRB projects discontinued from funding is unknown. We will agree that projects with 156 euros were recorded. In this category, however, there are the three hundred fifty works of the municipalities that were seconded in 2013 by a government decision from the ROPs of the regions and transferred to the EITA S.A., a public limited company of the Ministry of Interior, with the responsibility of the CEDEFOP. In many of these projects the funding was interrupted, with the government's responsibility, after April 2015 for a semester and continued in October. A corresponding payment involvement, approximately four months, was in the summer of 2014. Consequence of the payment stop was the closure of operations and the delay of timetables for six to ten months. I'll get you an example from my area. An historic school in Heraklion, the Captainate, financed by the NSRF for seven years, has been a forerunner for seven years, eight hundred students in the container, in the courtyard, precisely for these reasons I mentioned to you. The government exercised a coarse blackmail. With the pressure to make sure that everything could be absorbed from the NSRF up to 31-12-2015 and avoided, it required completion within a two-month period of what was not done in the tenth month of the payment stop, which in many cases is impossible, for purely technical reasons. This reality is translated into enormous pressure on self-employed and small contractors, who are unable to complete the projects and face bankruptcy, with significant, negative consequences. The majestics have "closed their donkey". As the new revision of public-private partnership contracts shows, they have the possibility of negotiating and an additional funding from the state budget and are not threatened by a loss of funding. Besides, the window for reintegrating into the new EPA can be exploited in such cases. In practice, a large project can easily be divided into smaller parts, some of which will be included in the new funding programme. On the contrary, small projects, involving self-employed, micro-enterprises, cannot be split into separate pieces. At the same time there are various rumours - and you must give an answer to this - how big-time workers, with economic comfort and greater access to the state mechanism, will be facilitated to prevent, thus showing virtual accounts as work done, which will not have been done, but will be done at that time, from 1-1-2016, to collect privileged funds from the NRP. You have to give us an answer to that. Finally, as the level of contracts appears to exceed the available NSRP, several work done by 31 December will probably not be able to be paid. It is also possible that the work will remain unpaid and resume, which, as a result of the above-mentioned situation, were carried out from 4-12-2015 to 31-12-2015. And on these issues you will have to give us an answer. As well as how you will ensure the payment of funds for all the ESRB contracts, which concern self-employed and micro-enterprises. It's the same situation as the workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The majestics have found the opportunity to intensify this insecurity regime with various leaks - which give and take - to stop the financing of the NRP, to freeze the payment of work, to problems in the financing of projects. At the same time, there is a gradual reduction in staff, even though there is an endless task, such as the Ionian road, workers are forced to delay their occupations - Calli road, Akrata - and are forced into forced leave and rotating work - such as in Line 3 of the Aegleo - Piraeus - on the pretext of not returning VAT. So all this is part of the overall government policy within the framework of the European Union's policy and gives directions and mandates. As a Communist Party of Greece, we have said too many times - and it turns out - that only one single state body for construction of a work, people's power and economy with scientific, central, regional, local planning, with socialized production can fully satisfy the combined people's needs, ensuring priorities for projects, in line with labour, people's needs. And at this point, on the occasion of Skouria, I would like to say that the position of the JRC is being made timely, that, in other words, mineral wealth must be popular social property and some on this proposal from the JRC - because they have no answer - they throw mud, falsifying this position. So it must be popular, social, mineral wealth, all this wealth that our country has today. Because if it were really popular, social property, gold in Skouria, and workers' employment rights could be protected and the region could not be destroyed. It is precisely because such planning is subject to the real needs of the people. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u106	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Synchronakis. Before we move on, I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, since they participated in the educational programme: "1974: The restoration of democracy", which is organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students, as well as two trainers from the 5th General High School of Ilioupoli. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, the Ministers for Economy, Development and Tourism, Foreign, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Maritime and Island Policy, the Deputy Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, and the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, tabled a draft law on 15-01-2016: "Undoing the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the promotion and mutual protection of investments". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We continue with the Parliamentary Representative from Potami, Mr Spyridon Danellis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is timely that the pathogenesity characterising the use of European funds, resources from the European Structural Funds, which have entered our country in recent years, because of our participation in the EEC, before, and then in the European Union. This pathogen lies in Greece's inability to reach an integrated design, design of works and actions that distinguishes them from a coherent web and a hierarchy. We have not exploited European resources, as others have done, in order for projects and actions to be structured among themselves to create an added development value. That was the philosophy of all the resources of the European Structural Funds, and, of course, we also have a loss of resources at the end of each programming period, but also an irrational and inefficient use of the opportunities we have had. It is also characteristic that we have always talked and are still talking about absorption and not about utilisation, and that is not an accident. Other aspects of pathogens are the insufficiency and weakness of the state machine. Despite the ambitious efforts and the ability of public administration officials, there has never been a specific framework with meritful and rational structures. Even in this imperfect context, there have been further interventions which have never enabled it to function fully and effectively. The bureaucracy, the lack of staff and continuing outside political intervention have always exacerbated the problem. Today, in the most critical and problematic period for the country, European resources are the only secure resources for investment and promotion of actions and projects that the country ever needs. And yet, we seem weak to learn from the mistakes of the past, so that we can use them effectively. And this at this juncture is criminal, of course. We had achieved a few years ago during and the escalation of the crisis to amend the European regulation so that our country - alone, it did not happen with the other countries that entered the adventures of the support programmes - is required to pay the lowest percentage of the own contribution for the co-financed projects, which reached the end of this period to zero. Nevertheless, we are not even able to absorb these cumulative resources in these circumstances. The ESDP period is closed with an absolute need as much resources as ever. The current unfavourable economic situation, as well as the developmental logic of the new NSRP, require the dynamic start of the new programming period by direct activation of those operational programmes that would allow the relaunch of the economy by facilitating the transformation of the country's productive fabric, the integration of infrastructure and the reform of the institutional environment, so as to create the conditions of the virtuous cycle of sustainable development. Unfortunately, this provision is not justified in practice and I hope, Mr Minister, that your assurances and the optimistic look you have described about the efforts, actions and results of the efforts. I wish, for the sake of our country and all of us! On the contrary, in the four of the five operational programmes, which could contribute to the relaunch of the economy, there is a pre-structural activation, pre-publishment of calls for proposals or calls for training. In fact, on the website - and this is characteristic - of the operational programme "Competitiveness, Entrepreneurship and Innovation", the ESDP is presently showing a warning indicating characteristics: "Warning, no investment proposals have been launched in programmes of the ESDP, 2014-2020". We note that the central strategic objective of the PAENEC is to strengthen the competitiveness and extroversion of businesses, to move to quality entrepreneurship with a peak in innovation and to increase domestic added value, which we need as much as ever. From the list of operations, i.e. the list of integrated projects of the NSRP 2014-2020 per operational programme and per Fund, it appears that only sixty-four projects have been included in the new NSRP - those were the available data up to 6 November 2015 - all of which are ECB projects, most of which are having to do with the Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources, Education and Lifelong Learning, as well as some of the regional programmes. The total planned budget of the projects shall be approximately EUR 223 million with implementation by the end of 2017. At the same time, the new programming period has been overloaded with projects planned for 2007-2013, i.e. the programming period that ended, pre-prepared transported, which have not been implemented either because in the meantime political priorities have changed or because - typically - were not mature, in order to take forward actions to the next programme. At the same time, ineffective and in many cases unsatisfactory planning of previous years is being carried forward. However, despite the initial announcements of the liquidation of the new NSRP by the unscrupulous programming, no substantial concern existed for it to be ‘differentiated’. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. The projects carried over to the EPA 2014-2020 as phasing projects, about EUR 5.6 billion, obviously deprive the country of the corresponding amount, thus reducing the planned European funds during the current financial period 2014-2020. Inertia and inadequacy have led to the application, in accordance with the European Regulation, of an extension request for projects following us from the Third Community Support Framework. There are, of course, responsibilities here in the previous government, which had to submit the request in time before the end of last year. But the elections have brought us elsewhere. Then there was inertial from your side. So incomplete projects must be completed, as must be completed, by national resources and there is also a clear risk of a return to Brussels of significant resources. In order to correct the allotted failures of the previous programming period, as well as to simplify the multitude structure of services and institutions, a comprehensive revision of Law4314/2014 is needed instead of continuous individual and fragmentary interventions and modifications. Of course, the conditions must be created - and this is the big issue, which is not just about you, but starts from you and is extremely useful - which will enable us to come up with an integrated plan which, on the basis of this integrated plan, in an efficient and sufficient way to be able to use the resources available from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr Dannelly, Parliamentary spokesman from the river. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Parliamentary Representative from the Independent Greeks, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my brief speech I have to explain what we have been through forty years, what we have received and what we have to do from now on. Unfortunately, in some subtle articles of 'BILD', which are known for the nature of its articles and its unreliability, the honourable Member has also been supported by the European Commission, Mrs Spyraki, and she has launched an issue which is totally irresponsible, which has been adopted unreliablely and made public so that she can put the country in a difficult position. I think that was an act of extreme irresponsibility at the time. But let's go see what's happened. Over the last forty years scattered elements - because it is not easy, it is impossible in this public sector, which had learned to operate completely unrealisticly and chaoticly, with a simple purpose and incentive to never have any control over anything wasteful in relation to what is collected from any source of funding, to find the final amount of subsidies that have come to Greece - they are talking about around EUR 200 billion plus what it is to get from now on until 2020. Mr Karvounis, the honourable President of the European Commission delegation in Greece, has given some information, as he was able to draw from the Union's figures. Mediterranean Integrated Programmes and the NSRF are tens of billions of subsidies, also for the agricultural sector and other grants. Everyone agrees that there was a temporary design. I think it was intended that there would never be any control. According to a recent study by ELMEMP for the Bank of Greece, from 1981 to 2008 Greece had received from the Community funds about EUR 91 billion, while the sum exceeds EUR 110 billion, if the ongoing NSRF is calculated. In the table we have from the Commission - I will put forward the figures because they are official figures from the Commission, but I will read them very quickly - it seems that, in our thirty years of participation in the European Union from the framework programmes, from the Mediterranean Integrated Programmes up to the current NSRFs, the sums are EUR 70.7 billion. This amount is doubled, if the huge subsidies are calculated, by agricultural funding, which has only been in receipt of more than EUR 40 billion over the last 15 years. What happened in Greece? Did it become more competitive? We built streets? We built some streets, but we didn't make the bases. We built, to be competitive, railroads we had to build to facilitate trade and transport? Oh, no. We built ports? Unfortunately, no. I've been talking about the last 40 years. We built airports? Unfortunately, no. We are now forced to privatise them, so that an investor can come and place his capital together with the Greek State, so that we can have competitive transfers in the airport sector. We have come to the EUR 200 billion, which went into cheques and made Greece practically uncompetitive today, not to have any primary production. 90% of our products 15 years ago could - and could - be kept and absorbed in the Greek market, which is not happening at the moment. The guilty are too many. And the guilty are not only the ones who give them, but they are also the ones who take them. They always need two to a fraud, and I'm not afraid to say it. If you want, take it for the Minutes. These are the statistics on the absorption of the NRP over the last forty years. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All this is very important, to see from now on how this government has managed to run the state within this short period. Because we had a two-month tough negotiations at first, in the summer another quarter of tough negotiations, we had elections, we had enemies, internal and external at every step of the negotiation, we had to manage the NSRF, we had to manage selected and pre-selected programmes that should be passed on to both the NSRF, but also to Mr Yuger's package. Mr. Catinen came here, who made an excellent speech. We were all there. We gave suggestions. We are all trying creatively to help and put selected projects, if you like, on the project and strategic planning of Europe, in which Greece has a very important role. Also, this government must make a national strategic planning for the next few years regardless of who will be in the government. We see that it will be us in the government, but above all we are all Greek. The design of infrastructure must not reflect the mistakes of the previous 20-year-old or 30-year-olds, the money being lost. And I'm clear about what I'm saying. If a colleague finds me a project which has been co-financed by the European Union and which has been the final cost, I would be delighted to see it. There's not one. Why? Because no work was done as it started. There have always been overpriceds. There is no play, which has started from alpha to omega and end as planned. That is why huge funds have been absorbed, and that is why competitiveness never progressed in the Greek economy. In order for competitiveness to go ahead, there must be planning and all the bodies along with the parties in both Parliament and the European Parliament, the representatives of Greek democracy to help, give directions and be able to bring stability to the Greek economy and all parties to offer creative proposals and not to sterile opposition. The absorption of funds is a golden opportunity from now on, because Greece has no other scope, except that it has to go ahead with the Public Investment Programme. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And we economists know that with a reduction in the MFF together with private investment and much of the effort that the Greek people will give through the fall at the moment, unfortunately of the per capita income and the costs that the employer has - because he has lowered the cost because of the pay costs - we should be more competitive to get ahead. I should like to close off with the 'ELDORADO GOLD'. ELDORADO GOLD is a company, which must understand, along with all the investments that are being made in Greece - and I say this to friends Germans, who will deal with airports or anyone else who started with "Asteras" or, I wish, to anyone with the good start of Greek - that Greece is not Banana or sub-Saharan Africa. It's not a country where you're dealing with a race leader to whom you're talking, you close the deal, you do whatever you want, you finish whenever you want, you charge whatever you want, and you deliver whatever you want. She must fulfil her contractual obligations. I will deliver the official press release "ELDORADO GOLD" on the 14th of the month, to see that what they say in public is not exactly what they say to their shareholders, because it is a listed company. It's very important to tell the truth. It tells truths, but it also says some things, which it has never mentioned to the Greek media and explains for all its investments in Greece how important it is and how much it wants to stay in Greece. Of course, it should stay within the framework of the law. I'll also testify a piece of paper that came into my hands. It is published on 4 August 2014. It is from the Decentralised administration of Macedonia - Thrace, from the Development and Bilateral Relations Department, Directorate of Water. On the second page, in order not to get far, I read something that is very important, Mr President. I'm reading a paragraph and I'm ending it. This was a drilling in Skouria and says that 'because of the excesses in concentrations' - please note - 'lead and arsenic, in order for water to be disposed of for water use, a high level treatment will be required, which is contrary to Directive 2000/60/EC, etc.'. A high concentration was found in the lead and arsenic aquifer. I mean, the aquifer has been contaminated. The water they drink has been contaminated by the workers and the local residents themselves and everyone there in the area. It's an official document. I put it in the Minutes for anyone who wants to study it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We should see here that when an investment is likely to damage the health of the world - it is an official document - criminal responsibility should probably be sought. It's not just environmental. It's not just licenses. It's not just town planning to build a building. We must also see the impact on the environment and, let alone, on the health of the citizens. I close by saying that the same mistakes should not be made. We have to have transparency. It has a great responsibility for the opposition to control the government of where money is wasted, for strategic planning and for all of us together to be able to bring growth to the country, growth with figures practically and not to the papers. Thank you very much and congratulate you, Mr Tindemans, on your new position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Dimitris Kammenos, Parliamentary Representative of ANELs. Before taking the floor for the Minister to give a second answer, the last of the parliamentary representatives, Mr George-Dimitrios Karras, has the floor from the Centroon Union. Mr. Carras, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. I am from the beginning in the Chamber and I am watching the debate and I draw some conclusions, that we are talking about quantity, we are talking about quantity of projects, we are talking about quantity of money. For quality, however, they did not see whether, i.e. the ESRB projects have qualitative criteria according to which selection is made and on the basis of the criteria, some of them go forward or are rejected. I therefore read the announcement that absorption of the NRP 2007-2013 at the end of 2014 was 85%. It's a satisfactory number, as I hear it. At the end of 2015, I read that it reaches 97%. More satisfying, obviously, number. I shall therefore go to the next issue that concerns me, see what projects have been completed, what projects have been carried out in part, what projects are being carried forward and what projects will be completed in the next 2014-2020 programme, both from regional and sectoral. So I stand on two or three points and say that we have projects to be carried over to the next programming period. So let us look at some examples. I will speak about the area that I know of. So I see that we have a codification of tourist legislation and a codification of forestry legislation, which is carried forward to the next period, from about EUR 1 million each. These projects, however, should, in our view, have been done by the Services themselves, and if they were made by individuals by delegation, they could not have cost more than a few thousand euros. Why am I saying that? What does it mean to codify legislation? It means we're going to go to a legal intelligence bank. The assistance of the Bar Association is free. The contribution of NOMOS is EUR 320 per year. The subscription of NOMOGRAPHY is 150 euros a year. We will, therefore, collect legislation, have it historically, it has the abrogated and existing provisions, we will collect under the provisions of legislation and case law, we will buy two - three private codification books, which are circulating and we will make them a nice volume and we will collect one million. And, indeed, this million, to which I am referring, has been paid in 2015. I have information on how the contest was awarded, how it was divided into three sub-projects and how it was paid at the end of 2015. My question, therefore, is this: has anyone stood to see the contribution of this project to GDP, its usefulness, its timeliness and how this million, which has been spent on European and Greek resources, will be able to yield to the multiplier? This is the concept of ESDP: efficiency and growth. Well, I'll tell you something and the friends of the New Democracy may be sad: While this project was under way, it came in the summer of 2014. 4280, which overthrown the forest legislation, set its offshore principles, the codification work was delivered in December 2014 and has no object. If I had done so in my office, I am honestly speaking to you, I would have cost me 10,000 euros, because I would have used two new colleagues capable of IT, two directors of secretarial support and consumable inks and 1,000 euros of paper and I would have finished. I mean that this is a time-consuming responsibility for all governments and has abused the ESRB with such actions, and this money, which is now being transferred to the new programme, will also limit new resources, without streamlining them. So there will continue to be this superstition of Greek reality. I will say something else here: we are therefore coming to the bridge projects. We are going through tens and hundreds of millions of projects in the new programme. See some of the plays we're talking about. There was nothing in the Chamber on this matter. We are mainly talking about projects, which are the scandal - and I am afraid I can use the word 'Europeans' now - such as the work of digital convergence, which he says. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some tolerance if you're kind. We have two, three million for each project central to digital convergence, and then we make it a fillet in all the regions and the millions of the original budget make it fifteen. One example: We are talking about immortal cultural heritage. Where do we assign it? In all regions of Greece. I have one question: Is the Immortal Heritage in Crete? Is Athos in Crete, to get the program of Crete money, Minister, from digital convergence? Does he have any metadata in Attica? I don't know. But what if he's got medals...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u112	He's got a good university.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u113	I don't contract. However, it does not have to be recorded by Crete as an immortal legacy. And this is the title of the work and the sub-project. I don't want to say any more. I would like to end by saying this: in this case we have seen and come out, if you sit down and look at the list of projects which will be transferred to the new programme or to those which, in the form of bridges, will continue in the new programme. Many works have no use. In many cases they are evident to be local rulers pressure objects, rheumatism objects. I do not want to use the words 'corruption', 'complexity'. However, I shall say something that comes to my mind automatically at the moment: do we prefer to take the work, the road to the home of the compatriot, the community or the municipal authority, or do we prefer to take it back to the garden, to go to the country where the farmer has to give up, grow? I'm afraid we've preferred a lot of projects to go to the coward. To conclude, I would like to say this: if quality criteria are not in place, and in fact strict legislation - the current legislation, I have the impression, and the last of the New Democracy has not covered them - to see, we have weighed on what each project contributes to GDP, during its operation, to its multiplier, I do not think we can move without a discussion in the next ESDP, because this will also have the same pathogens. And I will say this: as we see in time, the question we are discussing today as a topical question, it could have been the same in 2000 with the IMPs, it could have been the same in 2009 with the previous programme, and I do not want it to happen today, but I fear that it will be the same in 2023, when the 2014-2020 programme will now end again, those who are here will be discussing whether or not, if we are done, what projects have not been done and what has not been done. The NSRF is a development tool, it is not a ruptured tool, it is not a pressing tool, it is not an interplanetary tool. To overcome this timelessness, so that we can with measurable factors see how we can proceed. And I want to finish by reversing what an old politician said: 'Don't build bridges where we don't have rivers.' Thank you, Mr President, and colleagues for their attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr Karras, Parliamentary Representative of the Centro Association. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-six students and four teachers and four teachers from the 4th Kyrkyras High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Georgios Stathakis, Minister for Economic Affairs, Development and Tourism, has the floor for his denology. Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to restore the New Democracy Members to the required order, because the question you have asked me and to which you have not directly replied: is the Minister asking himself: who is responsible for the tragic delays that are unfortunately leading to a loss of European resources, unfinished projects and the transfer of projects to the new programming period? Second question: has the damage of these uncertainties been calculated? I repeat for the multiplier: we do not live in a virtual reality, Mr Treasury, us. I submitted the evidence, I said Greece was in the first place. I will submit the data now, the full table for the absorption of 2007-2013. It is 97.1% Greece, Luxembourg, second with 95% etc. I will submit the full details of the new operational programme, which is the first of which is Greece, with twenty programmes starting, with eighteen designated authorities. And I will, of course, reply to Mr. Constantinople, who reads selectively in the elements with a veil of mystery. That was the questions. I think our location was very specific. Well or badly, we consider it a success of the government and we will continue to consider it, unless the criticism is based on real facts. And that's not academia, it's just statistics. That's what we did, that was the result. We are open to criticism that we would like other things to be done, which would bring about a better outcome, but that is as far as it is concerned. From there I am surprised that you refer to the flow of your word for the destruction that we have brought to the economy. And there too, the data must be reminded, is that they did not follow the destructive scenario that the economy despite the difficulties and problems that have undoubtedly arisen is closed at a small, very marginal rate of recession, that the progress made in the second half is a given one. There are also good performance in processing - plus 4,6- and in tourism, there are many other indicators, which show us that it is far from being the reality of this destructive scenario that you have set out. I'm going to Mr. Constantinople now. You came with a style of policeman Poirot that there is a fantastic number somewhere hidden, which, if revealed, will come to the world the Revelation. This dreadful element, which we hide, is what will show the outcome and failure of the scenario! There are no such police stories. We're not looking for the puzzle, which all of us in here can't find out. So the number is specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u116	Only in the Mint are those numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u117	Good. So because you showed up in this style that there is this magic number in the ICPs, the magic number in the ICPs will reveal it now to finish the conversation. It's 21.87 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u118	Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u119	That is what I will put forward: EUR 21.87 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u120	Check it out. Check the schedule, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u121	Secondly, you also made various scenarios, with the same revealing style, about how much money we've absorbed from the new ESRB. You said an amazing number 3,30. I've corrected you. It's 1 billion. We're filing it. [[At this point, the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's 1.32 billion. First-class resource absorption. They're in the Minutes all three. So absorption rate, first table. Second table: 'Principles and approved operational programmes of the new ESDP' and the absorption of resources from the new NSRP 4.99%. It's exactly 1 billion, as I corrected you. So don't be looking to find truths from the revelation. The evidence is simple. It's data. I wonder why you didn't already have them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u122	We've got it. But they say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u123	If you had them, why are you hiding them? Then testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u124	It's other evidence. I'll testify, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u125	There's no way it's more. It can't be any more. One is the conspiracy of evidence. In these circumstances, therefore, I would also like to raise a few additional issues which have been raised by the debate and which are important. First of all, I'm going to talk about the projects coming from the third CSF. I am referring to major projects, motorways and so forth, which have been formulated by some speakers, the idea that they cannot be transferred to the new programme. They cannot be transferred for two reasons: firstly, because you cannot have projects in three programming periods. So de facto it is out and, secondly, because in the new ESDP there is no room for major projects. So de facto was out. The idea, therefore, that we bear any responsibility, whether for the delay in the completion of major projects - exactly the opposite we do - or for the fact that there will be evasive resources is totally misleading. We must be clear. These projects cannot go to three programming periods. The previous governments could not complete them for various reasons. They considered that these could be completed in unrealistic times. There have also been many other failures - and this is the softest expression I can use. What we are called upon to do is to make it simple. It is a struggle to end these projects by March 2017, and that is why a Interministerial Committee has been set up and there are many other ways to achieve this objective. Secondly, there has been criticism that we are bypassing the small municipalities. The opposite happens. It is precisely because we want to bring the small municipalities to the centre of the new projects and to be part of it that we have made a series of procedures whereby small municipalities, which do not have the potential to develop projects within the municipality, can resort to a large number of institutions. With the TEI, there has been an agreement, such as with various other services, which can provide technical support to the small municipalities, so that they can complete their projects. The third issue concerns the criticism that there is a delay, an intermediate time, between the pre-publishments we have made of entrepreneurship programmes. This was in October and we left forty days until we finalised the notices. That's not a dead time. The final invitations come from dialogue. This dialogue is being held and, at the same time, stakeholders can prepare for the process, in which they will join these new invitations. So the time between pre-publishment and invitation is creative. That is how we understand it, and we do so, in order for there to be a result, that is, the final invitations, which will be made within the next two or three weeks, to respond to the real needs of the economy, after the objectives have been set. Of these objectives, I repeat that these concern invitations of 350 million, which will be completed in the next two weeks. I'm closing up with an observation about the EDP. One issue was the Community's resources. The second issue we solved was the EDP. There is criticism either that the resources for next year are not sufficient or that there was any suspicion of loss of resources in the WEU. The EDP was 6.4 billion this year, we are talking about full execution, 100%. I would stress that in the last four months, in September, October, November and December, the PPP was executed by 5 billion. Of the 6.4 billion, 5 billion were executed in the context of the completion of the programmes in the last four months. The arrangements that we have confiscated from the European Union, the two billion I have mentioned, are true. This is the reduction of the state budget, without reducing the number of projects. Of course, the projects in the 2007-2013 programme are being fully completed and the new FPI of 2016 has an increase of 5.5%, which is 6.75 billion. That is the data, and on these conditions I think that the debate should remain at the level of the real data rather than the fantasy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u126	Madam President, because I have no right to secondary education, can I submit two facts to what I said before to the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u127	Would you like to submit them to the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u128	Yeah. Give me a minute to sit down and testify. Do we have a right to dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u129	First, do the questions want to be seconded? Because there's a whole series. Mr. Stathakis just intervened. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have become spectators of another sad communication show by the most failed Minister of Government SYRIZA, Mr Stathakis. As a genuine expressionor of the "godly failure" we were presented with a situation that was unique, a state of exquisite, a situation of fundamental importance! We suggest that you wake up from the lethargy you have been in months, because Greece is falling apart. For how much relationship you have, really, with the market we won't answer you. They answer the chambers and the daily hundreds and thousands and even more citizens, who are unfortunately on the streets. How accurate the evidence you gave us, we have to look into it. You also get used to it - and I speak directly - saying other things, commit something else than what you say today, and at the end of the day, do nothing, just run away - often muddled behind developments and events. You're in your world and I suggest you get as fast as you can. You have submitted with pride and smile, in fact, with satisfaction, a number of elements that we should consider, because they are other times that you have provided information from this step which was inaccurate. I would remind you, Mr Stathakis, that you are looking on the other side - the elements of the BOAK, the northern road axis. You have even questioned what I was referring to by giving other information - you know it all - that your own agency had finally provided me with the information through the parliamentary control which you, as the Minister responsible, were questioning. However, we are still waiting for the government and for you to give us officially cross-checked and accurate data on the implementation of projects, which is their development, what is going to be done with unfinished projects - but not generally and indefinitely, the investors are coming, we have them in line and they are waiting, etc. - which projects are carried out in the next programming period, which projects will be paid by the ICP if relevant attention has been paid to the ICP. Mr Stathakis, since you are specifically asking questions and even questioning the content of our topical question, from the seventy thousand integrated projects codes, who have been completed, not only in terms of physical scope but also in terms of invoicing of projects and the completion and settlement of their accounting, cash liabilities? What are the consequences, if you know, for growth and unemployment? I've seen a lot of smiles, dear Mr. Stathakis, a short-sleeper. If we hadn't known you, we should also apologize "I'm sorry, Minister, we were wrong, it's things" and we should run to fix what we said. But it's not like that. I ask you to realize what the situation in the country is. The situation, ladies and gentlemen, which you have tried to defend, is extremely tragic if we take into account the unprecedented and complete impotence of implementation in the next six months of the new programming period. Actions were prepared by the Samara Government and were ready to proclaim, but delays and inertia, inefficiency, inability and impotence of the SYRIZA - ANEL government have led to critical delays. It is important at this point to mention that the European Commission, in order to show practically its support for the recovery of the real Greek economy, has shown determination by proposing the immediate disbursement of EUR 1 billion. EUR 500 million from the ESDP and EUR 500 million from the ETUC for 2015. However, they set a condition - to my mind - for the government to implement what it itself agreed and signed on 12 July 2015 in the agreement of the summit. However, even in this case, the government has proved to be below the circumstances. The government continues to make irresponsible announcements with nice smiles, to have ineffective, inefficiency and natural general positions. Faced with the truth of the actual data, but above all against the harsh truth of the numbers, you smile kindly and invoke investors who come and invest shallow, with an extremely hostile behaviour that you constantly show and transmit negative messages to anyone who passed through their minds to come to invest in our country. With the improperness and the wrong policies, you are putting European funding at risk, the completion of major development projects and the NSRF totalling EUR 43.5 billion over the next five years. Politics is not with wish but with projects. Unfortunately, the Greek society still expects to see the construction sites operating, the workers returning to their positions and, of course, the completion of these works and being delivered to the users, i.e. to the citizens. Once again it is understood and clear that the position of the New Democracy and our new leader, Mr Mitsotakis, is that private investment and the development of entrepreneurship are absolutely essential and will make a decisive contribution to the recovery of the Greek economy. Please start, because the economy can't wait. Development is unfortunately not coming with smiles and fine words but with actions and results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Panayotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u132	Madam President, very briefly, a second one. I would like to say from the Step, Mr Ministers, that criticism is not on a personal level but on a political level....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u133	It's on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u134	In politics. That's what it's supposed to be. That's right, she's tough, but she's political. Believe it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u135	Aren't you the head of "I Don't Pay"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u136	Oh, no. Do you have proof? Do you have any evidence? The slanders and populism elsewhere, not me. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u137	Minister, may I speak? Then you'll find them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u138	The lies are over!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u139	Is that not the question for the NSRF?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u140	We said, New Democracy is the New Democracy that leaves populism behind forever. That'll be the look from now on. And I think that's what the world sees from now on. I'm coming back. In the spring of 2015, if you remember correctly, Minister, we had smashed the alarm over a series of major infrastructure projects that had a long delay. The answer and the style were about in the same reassuring tone, that we are in danger, we are overreacting...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u141	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Ignace, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u143	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u144	Minister, this is rude. You're welcome. It's rude. Listen to the speaker, and then you'll tell Mr. Ausgeakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Augias opened the debate. All right, you guys go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Aggenakis opened the debate, but I am in Step and you are not addressing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u147	You said, Mr Panayotopoulos, that you wouldn't have second thoughts, and that is why I hadn't called you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u148	I told you I'd talk for a while. I said I wouldn't get a second, but I just want a minute. I won't be using all year round. This is now another issue, which is wrongly raised, Madam President. I'll be very brief. So I say that we had hit the bell in the spring of 2015 and the answer we received was in the same reassuring style, that we were in danger, etc., etc. After six or seven months - if I am not cheated - there were redundancies in the metro of Thessaloniki, a project we had then denounced that it was "fighting". So we weren't in danger. And in any case, our arguments were not based on a risky mood but on documents of the organ at the time of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Workers, who in fact in tragic tones showed a landscape of complete inertia, a time of glaciers in the great works in the country. In the mood to help unlock the situation, we came and talked here. So the new ESDP period 2014-2020, we know that it will not involve financing infrastructure projects but other activities. This is why there are some concerns across Greece from "frozen" projects as to whether they will be reinitiated. And some assurances from the most competent bodies are needed. In my constituency of Kavala, for example, there are already four major infrastructure projects in the bridge regime, in the phasing, namely, three of the EPA, which provides proposals for the environment, waste and waste management infrastructure in Nestos, Pangaio and Kavala, and one of the Macedonian-Thracian RDPs, which I would say is a project of central strategic importance for the development of primary production in a large rural area. I am not talking about the other eighteen transport projects, which will in other words go into the future and we do not know when, but I am talking about these fours. These four works have been frozen and we know that they will run in the next period with the status of the bridge. At the moment, however, there is nothing to be done and we want some assurances, not only about them, but also about all the similar projects that are being carried out throughout the country, to know that something is going to be done. We want answers on them, without a mood - if you like - of personal depreciation but with a lot of mood of hard political criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I'll be specific in my dentistry. You have referred to the development law and I shall make you very critical. Firstly, for no reason we lost 12 months in 2015, which was not tabled by the new development worker. You said yourself that you were waiting for the second semester to start the consultation. Lost time at a time when our country cannot afford to wait. Referring to the earlier laws, indeed, there are historical problems in development law, I found the same thing before me in July 2012 when I swore to myself as Undersecretary of Development. I didn't come to the House to protest. We worked constructively. We immediately testified to Mr González, Mr González and Mr González González. 4146/2013, where we took concrete legislative initiatives: firstly, we created an internal audit service to deal with corruption, because they existed in previous governance, before the New Democracy Government, which - as you know - have been examined by the competent European authorities. Secondly, we have introduced the institution of the external accredited auditors so that they can help the agency in the control of cases. I know that this institution is not working today. Thirdly, we have strengthened liquidity by giving 100% of the project advances, thus abolishing interim control in these cases. In other words, by reducing red tape by 50%, making half of what was needed, that is to say by making direct final control and not intermediate. These initiatives have enabled payments to be accelerated in 2013 and 2014. In 2015, you did not tell me in your dentistry what payments you made compared to 2012 and 2013. You have now completed a year of governance and we can compare similar things. We can compare what happened in previous governance with these problems and what happened in the present. You referred to the control of the European Commission and, indeed, we had a strong correspondence and a number of visits during my Undersecretary in Brussels. I should like to acknowledge that for your days the check has been completed and the service has been found to function properly and normally. However, because I say that at last we must compare similar things, I would like to say the following: in May 2014 the CEE, the official advisor and research centre of the government, presented a study on the investments that came to our country in the period 2012-2014, the first two years of the Samara government. It is not a macroeconomic study that takes general parameters. It's a study named after every investment that came to the country. Which company, what amount, in what area. The total of this study in the first two years of the Samara government was EUR 37.6 billion. It's by name, and I've filed it before in the Minutes. The study is available at the moment if you enter the KEPE website. We completed the first year of governance SYRIZA and ask you: Tell me the name of a new investment that came to the country. Don't tell me about the privatisation of the airports you completed. Congratulations on that! You lost a year for no reason, and you didn't get a better deal. Tell me, however, an example of a new investment that has come to this country, so that the unemployed who are waiting for the government to create the conditions that will give the young children hope to stay in that country and not go abroad. It is a pretext, Minister, that this hope does not exist with the present government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, too. Mr. Fortsakis, will you answer for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u152	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u154	Madam President, if Mr Denkias accepts the interruption, I have asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u155	I have no objection to any prior notification by my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u156	Wait a minute, Mr. Constantinople. What do you want? You have no right to dentext.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u157	If you think I can't, okay, I want to contribute to this conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u158	It's not a matter of contributing. Exceptionally, I will give you the floor for half a minute if you want to submit a document and justify it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u159	Sure. Thank you, Madam President. I would ask the floor because the Minister has presented some information. And I would like to say that I - to God - have nothing to do with Poirot. The Minister's a little confused with the Mint, care and all that. But let's go to evidence. Minister, on 5-1-2015, 17.5 billion payments have been entered in the 2007-2013 programme. Assuming that this figure you're saying is the right one - I'll give you the figures - it's 21 billion, there's only 3.5 billion left. I'm asking you again. I'll deposit the paper. But I give you, Minister, because you say that the OPC is very open and we see it - and I present the ICP on 12-1-2016, two days earlier. I don't know how many other evidence they've got in. This is about 19.8 billion. I'll testify. Minister, I will submit the data for the 2014-2020 programme, 7 January 2006 OPs - the Ministry's Integrated Information System. Expenditure of 230 million, of which other items may have been added, of course - 30 million was technical assistance. We will ask you immediately with parliamentary scrutiny to tell us where 30 million were given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Teddy, you have the floor. Will you speak from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u161	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u162	You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u163	Besides, under eight minutes, if I remember correctly in the Rules of Procedure, no one speaks in the chairs. So I have the pleasure of seeing the Minister on his face rather than on his side. Minister, you know, the questions also give us the possibility of a wider debate, which is useful. Indeed, if it is within the right climate and with the possibility of mutual understanding of the arguments, I think that they can influence the crisis and the government, even if it is not ready, for reasons which are understandable, to confess to it within the Chamber and before the National Representation. So I say that you now have a year of government service. It is now absolutely possible to have comparisons. I am not ready to hear your well-known argument about forty years and so on. Forty years Greece - since I said so - has jumped. Huge mistakes, huge mistakes, but jumping. Greece of 1974 has nothing to do with Greece of 2014, no matter what one takes into account. But at a very, very critical point and please take it into account. The model you're trying to implement - and you're actually a Minister of National Economy, you're not only a Minister of Development in the narrow sense - despite the huge turn you've made, it's continuing to ban investment and accumulate tax burdens and other burdens on the back of those who are trying or working in this place. This can't be done, it can't be applied, it can't lead somewhere. The country is leading to a dead end. The businessman in his everyday life leads to a dead end. You constantly accumulate tax burdens, you continually accumulate burdens, you are helping nothing to do with citizens. And as if not all of this were enough, there is the known insurance plan in the way we have understood it, as it stands, because a structured insurance plan has not been submitted. I would therefore like to tell you that, with this data, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - I would like to foretell you and I do not like to be a master - is heading toward the end as much as it may seem paradoxical, four months after your last election. Again without being a master, I foretell that in the polls that will see the light of publicity, four months after the last elections, the New Democracy will again be ahead. And I'm not saying this to you, thanking you, because we're not in a hurry to sit back on the chairs you hold today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u164	You're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u165	I tell you this as a huge demonstration of the government's failure and the desperation of the Greek people. We, with our new Chief, Mr Mitsotakis, believe that we will be able to formulate a new proposal and soon, give Greek society a new hope.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u166	Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u167	I take the opportunity to come up with this issue and make a few comments in general on the issue at issue. In his place, Mr. Augorakis has applied to morphological analysis of my physiognomy, my style. He described me as the most failed minister. I'm overdoing all this because the gap has remained. When we resort to such arguments, it usually means that we have nothing to answer for the NSRF. As it turns out, Mr. Aygeakis has nothing to say about the NSRF, so he appealed to the characteristics of my face, my style, to the BOAK and to various other fantasies. The evidence is there, it's filed. If anyone disputes them, they'll give us more. A great success of the country is a given. Now I'm going to general. Getting out of this means doing an analysis now generally for the economy. That wasn't the question. I'll do it as long as you want the debate in general for the economy. There, however, the results of this dialogue and of the debate remind you that they are not as negative as they are devastated. The results from the real economy are data. The recession is only 0.6% - somewhere there it will close. The budgetary objectives have been achieved, the agreed roadmap is progressing. Some people may not like it, but we have closed three courses of negotiation successfully. Insurance and the first assessment is the fourth core point. The banks were recapitalised. The economy is emitting stability. As far as the political system is concerned, I do not know the polls about to overturn, but I would remind you that we have won elections twice in the last 12 months. If New Democracy disputes tomorrow's ability to govern, you have to tell us. So, every time you want to have an election? Is it proportional to the polls, which are commensurate with the air, depending on the identity? Get the identity you now claim to have and here we are talking about it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u168	The debate is adjourned on No 2/2/5-11-2015 of a topical question to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the projects to be carried forward and phasing. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-15-S1-commons.u169	(a) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, is being discussed.
