ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 21-7-2016, PRACLEY PRACTICAL PRACTICE's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau at its meetings of Thursday, 21 July 2016 in respect of the vote on the whole draft law: “Consolidation of matters of competence of the Ministry of National Defence and other provisions”.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: 'Representation of political parties, extension of the right to elect and other provisions on the election of MPs'. I would like to inform you that, so far, two rapporteurs, six special speakers, eight parliamentary representatives, nine ministers, nine Deputy Ministers and Deputy Secretarys and ninety-seven speakers, all together, a hundred and twenty-two colleagues, have spoken. Therefore, the Prime Minister, the Chief of Police, and the six Presidents of Parliamentary Groups remain to speak. There is also a list of other sixty speakers. As long as we have as mandatory the speeches of the Presidents and from three to four minutes as the only doubling for the two rapporteurs and six speakers, in addition to the delay with the previous bill, there remains time for fourteen colleagues from five minutes. It won't be the first 14 series, which was after Ninety-Three, if I'm not mistaken, that we stopped yesterday. It's gonna be the ten of them, but because they're only New Democracy and SYRIZA, we've got the Independents emblem. They are two independent of the four colleagues who were here, and we have a colleague from Potami and one of the Democratic Partnership, who were also below. So the order of what it will be possible to take the floor from the list, shaped by the day before yesterday, is as follows. Listen to the names of colleagues who will be able to take the floor. They're the ones we're going to start with. It is Mrs Chrysula Katsavria by SYRIZA, Mr Savvas Anastasiades from New Democracy, Mr. Nicholas Michos from Golden Dawn, Mr. Kremastinos from the Democratic Asylum, Mrs.Garas from SYRIZA, Mr. Boukoros from New Democracy, Mr. Psarianos from Potami, Mrs. Stamatakis from SYRIZA, Mr. Koutsakos from New Democracy, Mr. Panagoulis, Independent MP, Mrs. Vaki from SYRIZA, Mr. That is the list with which my fellow Members will be supplemented. We will join the presidents in about fifty, a hundred forty eight speakers during the three-day period. It is at the level of discussion of the presentation of programme statements in terms of number.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u2	Or even a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u3	Or even a motion of censure, as my colleague says. What are you thinking? Auspicious what you're thinking! So I will strictly follow the list so that we can then listen to the leaders of the parties. I very much ask Mrs Katsavria to come to Stepma. I'll interrupt you in five minutes, so shape your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u4	Mr President, will the parliamentary representatives not have a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u5	Oh, no. We'd said it all along. That is why all the time had been given. It'll only be the special speakers. You have the floor, Mrs. Katsavria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I expected that the debate on the analogous representation of the parties would finally meet the mature requirement of Greek society for a fundamental change in the political system. I was expecting that the Civic Opposition and some parties that seem to be working with it would have the courage to reveal their true intention, which, incidentally, is nothing other than the existence of government power by transforming minority voting into a majority in the House. On the contrary, they are trying to cover up their preference in the mocked electoral systems by taking with them Golden Dawn, after accusing us of engaging with her. Any further comment I think is unnecessary. Conversion of the minority to a majority has obviously nothing to do with rulership nor with the support of the needs of the country and of the citizens. The obsession with the mere analogy has a direct bearing on the reproduction of political jackals, family rule in political life, the prevalence of power by closed rings of interests, the non-transparent and biased management of public money and the sending of the account to the citizen at long last. The parliamentary powerful governments of the past are the ones that have led the country to bankruptcy, to the economy in recession, to the productive basis for depreciation, to the social state of extinction and to the citizens of unemployment, to poverty and to despair. Of course, the parties of the old political system have been financially and politically bankrupt, but that does not bother the leaderships of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the River. But why bother them? Since their friends, who were wealthy before the crisis, continued to be rich during the crisis, such as, of course, there is no need to be disturbed, since as professionals in the political support of major interests, they will always have a job, whether in the parliament or in the media, or in other public or private institutions. The parties of modernized interlocutory and corruption, the political system of dependence and of "SIEMENS", the followers of Papastavros, Sklavon, Tsukatos and Christopher want society in the precinct of the church and themselves permanently established in the sanctuary, the unbaptised of power. That is why they have every reason to be concerned about the initiative to establish a mere proportionality. Ladies and gentlemen, we are trying to restore full equality, power and the value of the citizens' vote. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen. We are inverting today's course of simple votership, eliminating the right to participate with one vote in the polls and then entering the margin and transforming into a passive and persuasive execution of the elite's wishes. The maturity of the people's will is the only one capable of expressing with pluralism and credibility the sovereignty of the people and of entrusting the people's mandate to those he considers appropriate for the direction of political affairs. On the other hand, the maturity of the parties is the necessary condition to ensure effective governance, which will balance the extreme social and economic contradictions, serve the needs of the many and respect the rules of democratic and institutional operation. This maturity of the parties is the main issue. But that is why today's parties are required to be transformed from leaders' parties or canal parties to members' parties, i.e. citizens' parties. I think it is high time, perhaps even on the occasion of the pushed revision of the Constitution, that the debate on the establishment of the democratic function of all the parties should be opened, on ensuring the free expression of their members, collective participation in decision-making, democratic control of the parties and the leadership, approval or rejection of the positions of the political orientation, the government programme, accountability of the events, the choice of alliances and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u7	Please, you're done, Mrs. Katsavria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u8	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u9	Oh, no. We don't have a minute. Ten seconds to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u10	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA, with an institutionally consistent and stable democratic orientation, assumes the historic responsibility for the resolution of the political system. Simple proportional and voting at 17 are the necessary vehicle in this direction and at the same time a fundamental obligation on all those who have given their blood for their homeland, democracy, popular sovereignty and social liberation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u11	Thank you. Mr Anastasiades has the floor. Don't make any noise, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Katsavria only because she has a strong voice was imposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. It is today, ladies and gentlemen, under way, a great political defeat for the government. You have set yourself, Minister, as a goal of voting for this bill with two hundred MPs, but that now seems to be a dream of the summer night. Settlements and efforts have fallen into the void. And while the Prime Minister had the opportunity, in fact, to open up an important debate on the electoral system, on the functioning of the parties, on how Members will be elected, on the right to vote of the homosexuals, on partitioning the constituencies, he chose a fragmented and splitting process. Every electoral law, ladies and gentlemen, must move on two main axes: firstly, to ensure governmentality in the country and, as far as possible, to ensure that citizens are represented. So, what's he caught all of a sudden, bringing this bill back? Why all this rush? What do you want to prevent, Minister? Rather, the instinct of self-reservation and your political survival has worked. The demographic collapse of the government and Mr. Tsipras is now visible and you feel it too. So, in order to save everything you can, you do not hesitate to drive the country into great adventures. And you, Mr Minister, are in favour of this, and you have said in public that simply proportionality will lead the country to irresponsibility. But you now have to support a law which you do not believe - and this is the case with other government ministers - for the sake of your political survival, without the damage you will do in the country. However, once again, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras' illusions will be destroyed. What do you think? That with this electoral system you will be rescued? The answer is 'no' and will be given by the people very soon. The electoral law brought by the government, if applied, will do great harm in the country. It will lead to prolonged insolence and uncertainty with what this implies for the economy and for the effort made by the country to come out of the crisis. At the same time, the electoral law you entered, Minister, is hypocritical and insults the intelligence of all of us. You say in your explanatory statement that the current international and European trends, as well as the philosophy of the current constitution, are in favour of extending the democratic and inclusive character of the election process. But what is going on in practice? This law deprives Greeks once again of the right to vote abroad, thereby violating the principle of equal treatment and the principle of universal suffrage, as provided for in the Constitution. If the reduction in electoral age is indeed intended to extend the electorate, as you claim in the explanatory statement, what prevents you from enlarging with the Greeks abroad? Isn't that a lot of hypocrisy? Communicating, Minister. Here, we're giving it to you. Our President gave it to you, too, when he met with the Prime Minister. What are you afraid of and do not go any further? Why are you so afraid of the resurrected Greeks? Do you think they do not serve your party interests? Even today Greece is the only country in Europe, which has not applied the vote to the expatriates. They pay ENVY, most of them have VDUs, they're on the electoral lists but you don't allow them to vote. You, ladies and gentlemen, will not allow him to vote. Mr. Tsipras of "We are every word from the Constitution of the country" ended up systematically violating the Constitution. He gives the 16-year-olds voting rights, but at the same time, he asks the guardian to justify his absences at school, to have Mr. Tsipras say he did something left. But when will you put your party interest above the tiny party? The country, ladies and gentlemen, does not need a dangerous electoral system, the country does not need a simple analogue. It is a simple logic, Minister, and it, unfortunately, does not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u13	Thank you. Mr. Michos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I would like you to give me a minute for a very important event that took place today in the Golden Dawn trial and I want everyone to hear about it. A witness...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u15	Allow me, Mr. Micho. Don't shout. One minute will be within your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u16	Yeah, I won't ask for any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u17	Go ahead, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u18	Today, then, a charge witness revealed in the trial of Golden Dawn that Treasury himself along with EL.AS spokesman. they went to the point where the homicide took place in a confectionery-- listen to it, gentlemen of the Right -- and asked the cameras to see what they've written. With what right did Dendias go there and ask for the logistical material, what has been recorded on cameras? Is he a prosecutor? He didn't go to any other store in the area. This businessman has not been disturbed by anyone else in the next few days. And I ask you again: is the Treasury a prosecutor? What right did he go with? What right did Dendias go to and took the material he wanted to have first and nobody else to take it from? If this is not called interference in justice, what is it? Whose orders did Dendias go there with? With Samara? From the rest of Samara's team, his buddies? It is clear here that the set-up that they made us and in the course of the course will seem too much. Be sure of that. One more thing. The same witness - and I am sorry - had testified to Mrs Clapa and Mrs Dimitroulus and had not recorded it. Here it seems the punctuality and setting that took place against the Chief of the Golden Dawn and all the Golden Globes. I will now come to the bill and talk about the mere analogy and the intensification that New Democracy has made these days, and it says that with simple analogy we will have powerlessness. Did you forget your authority, taking orders from Brussels, from Merkel, from Shoeble? They sent you computerized, you did the translation and you came here and you passed the bills. What's that called government or insolence? Did you or the Germans rule? I will go a little further to the JRC, because Mr Katsotis said yesterday 'New Democracy Time'. Did you forget in '89? Have you forgotten the strikes you've done, which have shut down how many businesses in the altar of capitalism? You can't talk about Golden Dawn, gentlemen of the JRC. You've got a lot on your back. We have heard about the relatives from New Democracy. We agree that the expatriates should vote. You two ruled a while ago, gentlemen. What did you do? Why didn't you bring a bill? Now you remembered the relatives? A little late. You have all forgotten - and you remembered them now - the four hundred twenty-seven thousand young people and young people who left and went abroad on the days of the memorials, minds, good working hands, who did not leave, have kicked them out. You have all driven them out with your policy, with the signatures, with the memorandums, with the bills and unemployment, and you continue to send them away with the measures you are taking and what you will take and what you have been waiting for the cosmadic since September. In all the states, those who are not abroad have the right to vote. A small example, a few days ago, on July 2, was Australia's election. The relatives went and voted ten days ago to make a proper count and there's no problem. But you'll tell me Australia is a state, it has laws, and it goes on. Here all that works well is the taxi to collect and "drink the blood" of Greeks, nothing else. We heard we're SYRIZA's tail. New Democracy said so. Golden Dawn is nobody's tail. The tail of the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, the German loan sharks, the Siomple, Merkel, the entrepreneurs and the Siemens are all you. Golden Dawn has nothing to do with tails. Golden Dawn is an independent nationalist movement, patriotic, all it looks at is to make a great Greece, a proud Greece and the Greeks have high heads, while all these years with your politics you have done the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u19	Mrs Anastasia Gara has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of this self-evident is seen as a revolutionary act, as Gramsey says, known to some of us. The self-evident thing, however, is simple logic. As Mr Anastasiades said before, our electoral system needs simple logic. That is where the simple analogue is based. And that is a self-evident act, because for us it is self-evident to respect the will of the people, without terminology, without bazaars, without venereous systems. It goes without saying that the equality of vote and the representativeness of the people. It goes without saying that the cobbing systems strengthened bi-partisanism, arrogance, manipulated the will of the Greek people, created customer relations and scandals - a lot of scandals - which most people know very well. I do not support this, of course, from the Step forward that we are doing a revolutionary act today in discussing self-evident things, but it is a historic act and a democratic vote of simple proportionality. For us, of course, the necessity of mere analogy in a country that is turning a page is self-evident and I will not analyse it, because all the arguments have been heard for a week now. However, for some parties, particularly anti-population, it is not desirable and even uses low-quality to funny arguments, which have been cut off, everyone says the same, has not made any variation in words, it is exactly the same arguments. They are good arguments, however, that demonstrate their political morality and deadlocks to which they have arrived. But what do they say? With what arguments to defend the "gift" of the fifty seats you need? In what words do you say 'do not take the chairs, please'? However, let us take these arguments in turn. So we hear that, with just proportional legislation, we legislate in government. Is law-enforcement really in law? I don't know what a point that is. With what logic? With what simple logic? So you started the calculations, the bazaars, who's gonna go out first, who's gonna go out second, who's gonna work with who. On such a serious issue, which concerns the functioning of our political system, and in particular the control of the interactive nature and control of the functioning of the parties and of the political groups, you are concerned only with bazaars. It is impressive to pay your respects to the citizens. Do you know what they're going to vote for? In what sense, with what programme, what political forces will be involved? Do you already know the results and judge the result? Do you share chairs? Do you even share the bonuses? And yet, personally from my experience, the little one, I would like to inform you that your party and election bases simply analogous. But how can you listen to society when you hide and fear to be released in the cafes? I wonder.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u21	We or you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u22	How to discuss with the citizens, when you have to constantly apologize for the smiling and scandals you have done and for the destruction you have brought to the country. That is why you prefer the lower than the cafeterias. We heard that SYRIZA brings the simple analogue to remain in power. Very interesting argument, honestly. Even if I go into your own logic of gambling and numbers, to keep power and chairs, wouldn't we increase the bonus of seats, like you've been doing for so many years?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u23	You guys are second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u24	And yet, we do not enter into these micro-political logics, unlike you, that you want spice systems and bonuses to move undisturbed and not to be controlled for the scandals you want to continue setting up. And since I referred to the word'scandals', we have a few loose ends in here and a few questions which have not been answered. What about Mr. Mitsotakis' loan to the newspaper "KERYKAS" of Chania? We didn't get a reply. Loan and anguish! What about loans from the PASOK and New Democracy parties? Are you gonna pay them back or whistle indifferently, asking for a 50-seat bonus to put them in the drawers? This is an example and proof that you do not want all citizens to be equal. Ladies and gentlemen, you are accusing us of not bringing the simple analogue on the first day of our election. If you remember, the first month of the election we brought us the bill to deal with the humanitarian crisis you caused. It's a matter of priorities. However, we have brought the simple analogue in one year from our election. How about you? What have you been doing all these years? I keep going and I'll be shorter. We heard the bill is fragmentary. And who told you that we're stopping our legislative work tonight? We have heard that we are not now bringing the right to vote to the migrants. Why didn't you do a simple account of Hellenism abroad? I'll tell you what. Because the only recording you've done for so many years has been on your party lists to transfer these people with the charters. You see, he's snug, he's snuggling. But the treatment for the vote of the homosexuals has already begun. Don't rush, if you've forgotten them all these years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I've got one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u25	No, you don't. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u26	I had five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u27	We just forgot to give you time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u28	Out of seven minutes, did we go to five?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u29	Five minutes you talked, but we hadn't put the time. You've got one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u30	I move on with arguments from PASOK and I am sincerely sorry, because it is a request for decades and your own space and I wonder how you delete your ideological background and your history. And let's not go far. Last year, you brought the same law. I wonder what history will write in the PASOK epilogue. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, just a minute for the seventeen. It is a regulation that has had to be done for a long time, because things have changed and many Members have not gone bad. Young people, now, are more concerned and informed, and we must give them a voice, decide on their own present and on their own future. This is where you'll allow me a joke. We are told: 'Do not turn schools into election centres'. Mercy! Even today they vote for students. Did you see schools - election centres? A little respect for this generation. A little respect. It's the future, and for it we have to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u31	Kick 'em up more!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u32	Don't move our finger.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u33	Mr. Tasula, please. Mrs. Gara, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u34	I'll be done. Who's afraid of young people? Who fears the will, the sovereignty of the people, the equality of vote, transparency and progress? Who cares only about the chair? Who questions the maturity of the citizens? Who's afraid of democracy? It will be seen this evening during the vote. We'll get the answers. Thanks and apologies for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u35	Mr. Kremastinos has the floor, strictly for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there seems to be another opportunity to vote on an electoral law that wants him to be passed on to the whole House. We all agree that a simple analogue is the best system in terms of proportionality and if you want justice. However, we all have to admit that, when it was implemented, the average of the governments that managed to survive did not exceed six months. That's what statistics says. So they're two extreme positions. And between the two extreme positions, each party has expressed its position and, of course, supports it, but nobody wants to leave and negotiate a third position. What does that mean? It goes without saying that there is no consensus. And the question is: Since the parties cannot find a common line in the electoral law, how will they find a line to coexist and secure a stability for the country that so much needs it? It is a question which must concern us all, and unfortunately the answer is grim. What the Minister of Interior proposed at the outset, namely the simple proportionality in a framework of two hundred or seventy-five seats and the division of the big regions, which people vote for, to which they do not know, but know them on television, was reasonable. I didn't see anyone sharing it. And, of course, the PASOK took the position that basically supports over time, but was ready to discuss all these positions. However, when there is no debate and everyone says that his proposal is the best and must be imposed on everyone, then the result we have, as you can see, is that. Tonight, we will have an electoral law, which will not apply to the next elections - we will see whether it will ever apply - because it depends on the outcome of the elections that will be held with the current system of things tomorrow and you understand that it is not a profit for anyone. I would suggest that the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior should be considered - the law will be passed this evening - on the basis of the fact that there is still, not this evening, but tomorrow, a way out for a debate. Because if there is no way out, you can see that there is no future. So we're going to turn each party back to bring an election law and wait for the next House to implement it if it succeeds? Here, Mr President, your own effort must be shown so that the House can get the proper seriousness and, if you like, it must also be appreciated by the electorate that three hundred MPs, three hundred people, can finally find a component, which is not the two extremes, which support extreme positions. With these thoughts - and of course four minutes is a funny time to get someone deeper into the subject - I would like to close my speech and respect the time, but to temper to say a few things more, I will not resist. In other words, even with this system today, the bonus of the fifty seats, as you know, has not given a majority of self-reliance. Even in today's system, if there was a provision, which said that if there is no self-responsibility, it does not take the first bonus party - that is when New Democracy took it with 18% and 36% now, but now it does not have self-responsibility - then the people want no bonus and just go in proportion. And if people want to express the bonus with their vote. So these things are not extreme, which we are talking about now, simply common sense issues. Unless we all want to stay in place, everyone guaranteed, everyone claims to have the ideal and perfect in their minds and want to impose it on others. But I think that the Greek people who are listening to us at the moment want us all to find a solution for the country to have a electoral law that will apply as it stands in all the big countries, which does not change from one party to another and from one four years to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u37	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr. Christos Bukouros has the floor, and then the President of the Golden Dawn Mr. Michaliokos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the five minutes available before we see what will happen in this place, if the simple analogue is ever applied, let us see what happened in this Chamber the three days that we are discussing the draft law, but also in the previous days, in the committees. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government is faced with the first important painful, I would say, of its parliamentary defeat. He put the cubits of two hundred seats very high, and tonight with the vote he goes under the cubit. Many Members of the majority are wondering why the smaller parties of the centre or of the centre are not consenting and not voting for the law proposed by the government, and expressing this question constantly and vigorously. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very simple. The smaller parties realised that this is not a genuine attempt, not a genuinely proportional one, but a regularism of the government, which attempted to encapsulate part of the political scene, to make it part of their planning and ultimately to manipulate it. This effort has therefore been understood, which is why I personally believe that smaller parties are abstaining from the planning of the government. I shall not go into the vote on the seventeen, which is, in fact, the sixteen, or the fifty seats bonus - which is, in fact, thirty and one - you are not going to be consistent either. Say another vote at seventeen. You say again about 50 seats bonuses, which have never been given to any party since today's electoral law. Allow me to refer to what SYRIZA presents as an originality and is alleged as its genuine expression. What's that? The culture of partnerships. It's a mistake, and let me say it's unbelievable. The party that has shown a culture of cooperation in the years of post-population is New Democracy, at least, more than any other party. Let's not have a short memory. The New Democracy co-operated when both the JRC and the Coalition, your political ancestor, and the PASOK and the Democratic Renewal, but later on the days of the Samara government, it worked with PASOK, with DIMAR, earlier with the People's Orthodox Alert. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, more specifically SYRIZA, has cooperated with whom? He has only one cooperation to show, with the ANEL party. And to have a good question, ladies and gentlemen, after the January and September 2015 elections, what exactly have you done? Did you hear the people's will? Did you interpret the people's message? Or did you form a government that you had predetermined with a particular government partner? Who was that government partner? It was your ally, the one with whom you built the alliance of deception of the Greek people for three years, which recommended the alliance, which poisoned political life, produced and tolerated the verbal violence, cultivated hatred among the Greeks. That's who you worked with! What culture of partnership are you talking about? Is this a certain ideological approach, a certain kind of ideological affinity, a certain programme of convergence? Of course not. Regularity and allow me to say the regularity of political and amoralism of power. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because I see that time is also slowly ending, I would like to say, if I may, an advice from a political opponent. It's free advice. If you want to be respected and appreciated by the Greek people, consider their problems. Because you know, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek families, who gather at night around the table, do not discuss either the constitutional review or the electoral law that you chose to bring on July 20, 2016. They discuss how their children will find jobs, how the economic situation will change, how their lives will be improved. If you want to be respected and appreciated by the Greek people, consider the real problems. But I'm afraid you can't make it. Your government is a government that goes daily, precisely because it deals with communication tactics and not with real problems. Very soon this evening's parliamentary defeat will become a great political defeat, which will bring to the government the New Democracy and the prime minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u39	Thank you very much. After Mr. Michaloliakos, Mr. Psarianos will follow and Mrs. Stamatakis will follow. Whoever is missing from these sixteen who have chosen to speak, I will go to the next one by the speakers. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the electoral law, I would like to state that on 5 July the Honourable Minister, Mr Kurublli, was presented with the electoral law and on 6 July, in our offices of the northern prefectures, where two young children were murdered, and the motto was written: 'A great pit for Michaelaiko'. A threat of death for the chief of a political party. And all the newspapers, all the channels, all the parties within this House had no word to say. I give you to the Greek people's judgment. You're an anti-violence card. The violence against the Golden Dawn seems to be blessed for some in here. I would also like to say - and after the recent meeting of the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Tsipras, with Mr Papandreou - that you are becoming more and more PASOK. Except then PASOK handed over Öcalan through Kenya, you're thinking of handing over the eight Turkish officers directly. It is tragic in a country, it is supposed, democratic before justice decides, to commit and make statements by government ministers that they will hand over the Turks, who are applying for political asylum, at the same time as they are known and given that in Turkey, Erdogan - the great democrat, as you discovered they are, you have discovered that Erdogan is a great democrat! - there's beheads like ISIS does, there's torture, public flogging. We saw a picture of the senior officials of the Turkish army being beaten and then you discuss the extradition. If Greece is to become Turkey's Yusuf, we are vertically opposed and will in every way express this opposition. The President, Erdogan, himself, said that he would bring the death penalty back to Turkey yesterday. With this in mind, how is it possible for a favoured European Union state to hand over to Turkey prisoners, who are seeking political asylum? Of course, I cannot help but mention the sad fact that officials from the Turkish army have created a climate of hostility in favour of Erdogan and the extradition within Greece! Where is Turkey taking it and where are those who govern this place? What do they want? They want Turkey's province? Hey, no! That won't pass. And we as Golden Dawn will resist this prospect! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for ten days there has been a debate on the electoral law and for ten whole days the Golden Dawn is at the forefront of a great disinformation campaign, an extensive mud campaign. They first came out with newspapers and television stations, but also with names of New Democracy politicians, and they said that we had made a deal with SYRIZA under the table in exchange for our trial. Are you serious, gentlemen? So you think it's the trials, the likes you set up with the limitations of "SIEMENS"? There was no deal. And I challenge anyone from both the government and the Qualified Opposition to say whether we have come with anyone in contact to discuss the electoral law. Ten days mud and misinformation and on the substance endless oriental bazaars, in which the Golden Dawn did not participate. It is well known that in a single article there were 3% and the 50 seats bonus. And suddenly this article is broken, because that's how you agreed to the JRC and made its mark. On the other hand, you said that you would break down the large constituencies and justify that, because it is an interlocutory man, the election in a region that has one and a half million voters and that makes sense, how much more so when it is assumed that a Athens MP is allowed to break 100,000 euros. There goes that too, you have forgotten, with your agreement with another party that did not want to break the electoral districts. Let us not, then, speak of pure and inappropriate proportions, do not speak of the expression of popular will, an oriental bazaar is this whole story. And in this story it is not possible for the Golden Dawn to participate, the Golden Dawn which has tabled an amendment - which you have certainly not brought - to reduce the Members to two hundred, a requirement which is reflected in the will of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. Let me just say one fact: Spain of 40 million has three hundred and fifty-seven Members. How does Greece of ten million have three hundred MPs? Not even a word about it. Also, no word for 3%, where within this framework of the take-off - give the lisverish that was done - you have left open and the 3% reduction, an act which would be nationally dangerous, would literally open the door, and the Golden Dawn, of course, would not be able to vote for it. And I say that you left it open, because it is a given that the country's Prime Minister himself said in his interview with SKAI to Mr Papachela. On the substance, however, the New Democracy and SYRIZA have the same policy. If we voted on the electoral law, New Democracy would come out and say we're SYRIZA's tail. If we did not vote, as we will not vote, some will come out and say that we are the tail of the New Democracy. You know what all this reminds me of? The wonderful novel of Nikos Kazantzakis, the "Frenches", which at the end decides to kill Papayannar, because - he says - "kill him, he wants to be free." Well, yes, Golden Dawn is free, make the decision and nobody's tail! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, between the New Democracy and SYRIZA we have no choice to choose. And we don't have to choose why you're following the same policy, the policy of the memorandum. And the Golden Dawn, against this policy had a firm position, was against and it was not long ago that you voted for the sale of PPA, airports and TRAINOSE, a total price of less than 400 million: 311 million sold out, 45 million "TRAINOSE". We leave the given that for TRAINOSE there was a basic proposal much larger, which you ignored because they do not want the great American friend and the European Commission to penetrate Russia in Greece, we leave this part of it and simply mention that the debts of the parties are far greater than the amount you get by selling PPA, airports and TRAINOSE. Finally, the electoral law, which you bring, is irrelevant to your general policy, to the policy of hot spots, illegal immigrants. The issue has come before us for our soldiers, who have found themselves positive at Mantoux's examination. What does that mean? That they're tuberculosis carriers and they just don't get sick. Whether or not they will, whether or not they will carry the tuberculosis pod is a matter of time, which I hope will never come. Take the decision, we're not with anyone. And the new bipartisanism, in the name of the memorial that you build, is not going anywhere. In addition, there are serious issues which have to do with the representation of the Greek people and this new electoral law. And I shall refer to Article 51 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u41	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u42	More specifically, in paragraph 4 of Article 51, which was voted on in the 2001 review, fifteen years ago, it was decided and joined the Greek Constitution that "Parliamentary elections are held at the same time throughout the territory. A law passed by a majority of two-thirds of the total number of Members...", what you wanted, that is, you would like to say, '... may define what concerns the exercise of the electoral right by voters outside the territory', i.e. the relatives. In this case it photographs, both the relatives and the four hundred twenty-seven thousand Greeks and Greek women who were exiled by the Memorandum governments, both PASOK and the New Democracy and SYRIZA. Because it is enough that you have come to correct the policy of the memorandum. You're applying a Memorandum. Almost two years you've been closing down in a while. Do not forget. Do not pretend to be the innocent of the blood of the Greek people flowing from the ethnoic policy of the memorials! So I continue with paragraph 4 of Article 51 of the Constitution, which says: 'To these voters, the principle of the simultaneous holding of the elections does not prevent the exercise of their electoral right by written vote or other appropriate means'. Here we are, then, since 2001. And he went out the day before your government and said: "We have no time to make a census of the expatriates." Why? After you say you are holding an election in September 2019. Can't you in three years make a homogenous census? Or do you not like the homosexuals and those who have expelled the memorials? Because it is certain that all of these will not be your chosen customers, because rooted from their fatherland are not subordinates to the customer state. They don't expect appointment, they don't expect a loan, they don't expect a transfer. They are free Greeks, who in earlier times came and fought and died for Greece. Read history in the Balkan Wars how many came from America and how many came from every corner of Greece. Read about the mayor of Limassol, Sozo, who died in Bizani. Well, you don't recognise the right to vote when you recognize the right to vote in some you brought here and call them Greek with an anti-constitutional law, which you voted on, which is a copy of the Ragosis Act, a truly unconstitutional law. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, take the decision: Golden Dawn is not a given one. Chrysayites are not hostages. Golden Dawn is the third political power of the country, which is dynamically rising and expressing the will of the Greek people, even those who are today whispering and not shouting. Everything shows that whatever you do, the Golden Dawn will remain the third political power of the country. From an ideological point of view, our position is clear. No Marx or Rockefeller. Not in Marx's orphans, not in capitalism's stains. Our idea is nationalism, whose wind blows throughout Europe. That is the great danger that frightens you. The Golden Dawn proved by its non-participation in the whole process that it is "urgent" none, that it serves the nation and the truth, and that will continue to do. So we are not involved in this game. Golden Dawn time is coming. From all this process, you can leave us out. We're not participating. Good night.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u43	Thank you. Good night. Mr. Psarianos has the floor. Mr. Psariano is not here. We're moving on to the next speaker, Mrs. Stamaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u44	Mr President, honour your position. You're President of the entire House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u45	I honor her. Good night. What do you want me to say? Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled by the Ministry of the Interior and we shall be voting in a few hours' time is a very important issue. Simple analogue is a timeless, commendable Left request and we consider the vote of this law to be a historic event. If there are fixed differences between Conservative forces and left-wing forces over time, one of them is the view of the electoral system. Since the Municipalisation of the respective electoral laws have introduced different electoral systems that have been strengthened proportionally. Every election and other election system, sewn and cut into the measures of conservative forces, intrigues and "cooking", in order to eliminate the vote of the small parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u47	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u48	The left always talked about simple analogues. It is therefore not an opportunistic move, but a mature political act, which is possible, given that the Left for the first time is in the government, for the first time has such a large number of MPs, as well as a three-year in-depth governance. That is why the bill is coming at this moment in time, at a time of neutral political, without an election horizon and has nothing to do with a micro-political interest, since we cannot predict the trends that will have been developed in the electorate over three years. Because then the elections will take place, ladies and gentlemen, and make the decision. Ladies and gentlemen, the simple analogue system strengthens the concept of democracy, justice, equality, contributes to the restoration of political relations with citizens, fosters the culture of partnerships, obliges parties to converging programming patterns or even divergences. It is a basic part of the political system, because it strengthens the concept of popular sovereignty, enabling every citizen to speak freely through his or her vote. It strengthens the concept of justice, as each vote has the same weight in the result of the composition of Parliament. It contributes to overthrowing the climate of depreciation in political life and politicians and sets the foundations to create a climate of trust between the people and their representatives. The left can only move social change to a central political level and facilitate the expression of social forces and streams, and this is only guaranteed by a simple analogue. You are claiming, ladies and gentlemen, that we have heard it against the coroner this weekend - that the mere proportion of this will lead to openness. Destructive, cries and whispers in all tons and with all means! However, the strong and self-powered governments, which emerged from the enhanced analogue system, which we had all these years, were the ones that brought the country to the point of suffocating supervision and economic crisis. If this is the result of so-called rulership, it's better to be missing. After all, the latest electoral procedures have not demonstrated self-government. A peak was the 2012 elections, when the New Democracy, with less than 30% and very little difference from SYRIZA, took twenty-nine seats, set up a co-operation government, ruled two and a half years and failed to elect President of the Republic, and that is why he "done". The current electoral system with the bonus of the fifty seats results in a distortion of popular will, as expressed in the elections. Ladies and gentlemen, fifty of us have been elected with this bonus. We, therefore, who were elected by this system, first we now want to change it, because we consider it unfair and confusing. You, ladies and gentlemen, in particular PASOK and the River, what are you going to do? Will you accept in the next election to go with this system, which we ourselves have been elected with, and we denounce? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us accept the reality. The way the country was governed by post-population and then failed, and the bipartisanism collapsed. Every attempt to revive him is doomed. We need an electoral system that fairly allocates the seats of Parliament. I, ladies and gentlemen, am honestly and politically ashamed of why the JRC is losing its seat in Piraeus every time. I consider this to be very unfair in these elections too, both in PASOK and in the Potami. It's not fair, it's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u49	Mrs. Stamaki, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u50	We are asking for a change in the electoral system. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u51	Mr Kumucasakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about a simple act of analogy. May it apply to Greece. We assume that the simple analogue applies to Greece. After long consultations, negotiations, retreats, compromises, a quadripartite government is finally formed. Shortly thereafter in neighbouring Turkey a major crisis erupts, let's say a crisis like the one we've been living in the last few days, a crisis of scale within and outside Turkey. Greece is somehow involved and faced with a delicate, complex issue, for example, something like what has been unfolded in Alexandroupolis over the last few days. In the Quartet Government, obviously or very probably not everyone has the same idea of how to deal with the crisis. Late, frivolous, disagreements. Result: failure to decide on a very critical issue. Conclusion: a crisis in Turkey is evolving in an intra-government crisis in Greece and, worse still, in a crisis with Turkey. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the result of a heterogeneous government alliance, essentially blackmailed by the electoral law of mere analogy. A law that de facto leads to a slower rate of decision. It makes it difficult to find a common line and a common place, especially on critical multi-dimensional issues, especially in bad times, such as the one we live in. Mr President, many colleagues have already mentioned the implications of internal policy that simple analogues can create. With this scenario, which is not so theoretical or distant, there is another dimension of the mere analog, its geopolitical dimension. Because in a wider environment of uncertainty and instability to add voluntarily factors that create further uncertainty, further instability, it is, in my view, a crime, which is actually committed in the knowledge of its catastrophic consequences for Greece and the Greeks, indifferent to the scope and depth of the consequences. With the insolence that simple analogue brings with it, Greece is in danger of losing, losing its geopolitical advantage, that is, being a pole of stability in an area of instability. And this advantage is at risk of losing it in the event of insolence. And this crime is committed for selfish, opportunistic, party and personal purposes. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, you will have no alibi tomorrow. There is no longer any illusion but fraud and even national dimensions. It is characteristic that in mid-May the Minister, who is currently proposing the bill, made the most critical final point: "With simple analogue country will never be governed." It has ruled out the simple analogue and has announced the fragmentation of the major constituencies. So what did he do? The Minister responsible, the genuinely tragic person of days, brought a bill that predicts exactly the opposite of what he himself was saying a little while ago, a bill which he condemns the country to insolence, instability and uncertainty. Why? It is obvious that the Prime Minister chose a moment when dramatic events occur in the Greek economy and society to go elsewhere to the public debate, to mislead citizens once again. Do not talk about pensions, which would supposedly not be cut, but which are 'tired', neither of which would allegedly be abolished, but which comes dramatically greater. The Prime Minister, seeing through the polls and in the society his government collapsed, occupied by panic and resorted to decisions he thought would hit the Civic Opposition. While he took advantage of the election bonus twice, he wants to remove it from the next winner of the election. Is there even a Greek in this Chamber or outside that who believes that Mr. Tsipras, with his unreliable history, would change the electoral law if he had any indication that he could win the next elections?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u53	Mr. Kumucaco, finish in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u54	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister, in discussing with the head of the JRC, has confessed that since he can do nothing but say, the simple analogue is the only left footprint his government can leave. It has already caused deep wounds in the country, in the economy, in society and in every citizen. Let us not leave the country as a fingerprint and a national adventure, because the electoral law of insolence leads the country to lose its basic geopolitical advantage. Ladies and gentlemen, a country of insolence, instability and uncertainty cannot claim international roles of stability. That is why we call on the Prime Minister to understand, even slowly, his historic responsibility for safeguarding his country's geopolitical advantage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would like to say that at this point there is an event in the monument that exists for Sotiris Petroula, who, like today in '65, was the victim of dramatic events, the so-called 'Julians', and two years later we were led to the seven-year-old dictatorship. Independent MEP Mr Panagulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u56	Mr President, I cannot understand why, for three months now, this debate on the electoral law has begun as a mere analogue. I'm a fascinator of mere analogy. I'm a fan of Alexander Papanastasios. Today his memory is offended by this electoral law that you want to baptize simply proportionally. I respect the views of all parties. The New Democracy is for the majority, others are for mixed electoral systems. I would, however, like to hear you say when you lied to me: in 2012 or today? In 2012, SYRIZA had tabled a proposal for a law - and I also had the honour of being a Member of Parliament at the time - with the first signature by Mr Tsipras and your signature. What were you talking about? "To get an end to a long anomaly, in order to match votes and seats..." and then you emphasised with the emphasis "without exclusion and exclusive clauses" in the proposal for a law "Removal of the 3% clause that is incompatible with the simple actuarial system". That is what you have been saying during the three months too, the various officials and ministers have changed various positions for electoral law. The proposal you have tabled has nothing to do with the simple analogue. But what are you doing? You're making a serious mistake. You are now, unfortunately, admitting your defeat and want to salvage what you can. And I come now to these friends and especially to the New Democracy, which says that with the simple analogue we will not have stable governments. The Greek people are not interested in the stability of the governments, they are interested in the stability of democracy, they are concerned with social justice. And in 1965 we had a stable government and became the royal coup that the Greek people paid for. And in 1967 a government of MPs from the Centre Union supported by EPE, we had a stable government. And what happened? He became the junta of the colonists. This is where you're messing with it. And you, Minister, told the committee responsible that you had a hundred ninety-seven Members and that you were looking for three...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u57	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u58	You said that, Minister. We won't have a dialogue. You said that. And that you were looking for three.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u59	If you think I said it, especially you Stathes, you don't blame me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u60	Please do not take a vacation and do not speak personally so that there is no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u61	I, if you want, accept that you did not say that, but you have said more. You have said that with the simple analogue the place will be ruled. And now you've been telling us, days ago, that with the simple analogue, the place is not ruled. That's the reality. I would like to remind my friend Giannis Balafas - I do not have time to read - the statements you made in 1993 when the coalition with Mrs Maria Damanaki took 2,96. How you had dedicated the electoral systems! Mr President, I am not going to go into the dilemma because I do not need anyone for a social certificate. You brought a single article -- both bonus and 3% -- and you broke it. I personally am in favour of the abolition of the bonus. I'm going to vote "residences" on the bonus. I shall vote 'yes' in the vote at seventeen, although this should be linked at the same time, apart from the rights of the young person to determine his government, to have the same obligations. You know, Mr President, how many minor refugees are currently in detention on Kavala, 15 and 16 years old, why cannot they be protected in detention centres? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. So I have no chance of the complex telling me 'but you didn't vote for the bonus'? But with the bonus, we're most of the Members from here, because I'm from SYRIZA too. Bonus, we're most MPs. And why are you abolishing it now? You do well to abolish it, but to have democracy, it is neither the bonus nor anything else. It is because most parties, if we make an exception from the JRC, are leading parties. It's chief and SYRIZA has been transformed into a leading party today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To justify my vote, Mr President, and I shall end and thank you for your tolerance. I shall vote 'no', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes' and 'yes', but you must apply all the other dimensions - 'no' to 3% and 'no' to the bonus. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Panagoulis. Mrs. Vaki has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, every electoral law is a democratic indicator. In the long term of the post-government history of this place, the electoral law suffered seven transformations, by common denominator the system of reinforced analogy, established in 1958. Sometimes designed for experts and indignant, unaccountable to the public mind, and therefore means of manipulation, the electoral laws of the multi-pathy Hellenic Republic became fields of combat between political parties, super-powered and mathematical majorities, representing the absentia of the representative, the citizen. The enhanced analogue many hated the micro-partnerial benefits that were derived from it, no one. Rhetorical or rather naive questions: How representative is it to win the first party 36% of the popular vote, but 50% of the parliamentary seats, while the second party, even if it falls short of one unit, even one vote, to get 30% of the seats? Is the adventurous manifestation of the popular will, referred to in Article 52 of the Constitution, guaranteed by the supremacy of the first party and by the sub-representation of the second party? How much intelligence does it take to realize that the current electoral system misleads the people's will and flagrantly violates the constitutional principle of equality?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u64	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u65	Why should the people's will not be reflected in parliamentary representation, thereby guaranteeing equality, equality of vote? Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a brief overview of the unbearable lightness of the political cynicism that governs the 'problems' of counter-population. After the dance "demand" or every day "the head of a minister on a board" the New Democracy withdrew the usual bambooes. Behind the intergovernmental bogeyman, supposedly brought about by a mere analogy, is the enthusiastic desire of blackmailed polarism and the prevention of broader electoral cooperation. The argument is one: the current electoral system is unpredictable, because that will only bring me to power. And the line of Officer Opposition is PASOK, which falls into clear contradictions, giving in to micro-party logic. What happened? Why did you, a year ago, have you tabled a proposal for a law aimed at the abolition of the bonus, now differentiate on grounds of sinfulness? I don't know if you're going right. Well, clumsy, go! Insolence is cured not by less, incomplete, mutilated democracy of mocking electoral systems, but by more democracy. Independence is not curtailed by electoral laws that annul the equivalence of the citizen's vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u66	Please be quiet. Don't say it so often.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u67	Accuracy produces economic crises, emergency situations, commissions that devour and vaporize parties, despise parliamentary democracy and curtail rights. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not been content with the blockade. With the exception of the Communist Party of Greece and the Centro Association, you did not hesitate to blame a left-wing government for indirect cooperation with Parliament's parliamentary disguised neo-nazis, in order - it is supposed - to ensure that the large number of votes is spent. Refugee the Left, who took the lead in the struggles against fascism, in the struggles for the restoration and consolidation of democracy in this place. Crocodile tears about the need for a political isolation of the Golden Dawn by you of the Officer of Anti-Population, who have kept channels of communication with the Golden Dawn are not only philosophicalism, but deep political amoralism and you should ask for public apologies for your insinuation. Our party doesn't have Baltakus. He had political prisoners of the junta. And, of course, as the poet says: 'And now what will we become without barbarians'? What does it mean to withdraw the Golden Dawn from the vote? Did the far right become the tail of the right? Ladies and gentlemen, if electoral laws are the barometers of democracy, the simple analogue is its synonym. From the EDAS of the late Elias to the Radical Left Coalition, the constant demand and the limey desire for the inappropriate, unadulterated and just analogues were the result of criticism of a flagrant injustice committed by the strengthened one: to steal the citizens' votes. And it is united with democracy, the simple analogue, because the quintousity of democracy is popular sovereignty, the self-governed people who, as Russo said in the Social Convention, are guided by the laws that are their own work, which are acts of their own will.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u68	Mrs. Vaki, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u69	One comment, please, for half a minute for the vote at seventeen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u70	But you've already been through your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u71	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u72	Not a minute or a half. Just a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u73	Just a word. I will not invoke the identification of adulthood with legal capacity. It's not a biological event, adulthood. You should be the first to win the vote at seventeen, because early adulthood is also your work. Your policies have violently grown up in this generation. She was landed abnormally not in the country of miracles but in the nightmare of a youth without...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u74	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u75	Give her at least the citizen's right, after you took everything from her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u76	Before I give Mr Javarras the floor, I will give him Mr Dendia, who has requested him, because Mr Michhos has already referred to this issue personally and has the full right to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I just wanted to say, in fact, that a moment ago a colleague of the Golden Dawn was referred to the Chamber, representing witness statements at the trial of the Golden Dawn, that I was supposed to be the next day - or something - of the murder of the late Pavlos Fissa, as Minister of Public Order, and I visited the crime scene, and I even inspected the cameras, I asked for a copy of them and a copy of them. I imagine that the claimant of the Golden Dawn is to present to the court that he supposedly tried to influence the investigation against the defendant. Although I would have every right to visit the crime scene, I must say to you that I have never been to this particular crime scene, I have never inspected any cameras, I have never been there, and therefore what Golden Dawn claims, as usual, to my face is just false and slandering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u78	Thank you. Mr. Javarras, please, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u79	Mr President, thank you very much. I believe that today, more than ever, the true feelings you have and you have about liberal democracy, which is set up and drafts the 1975 Constitution, have been so faint that you have now become inappropriate for precautions. From everywhere, from every action of yours, from every word of yours, what is missing is the truth. Watching from this Step to parade fellow Members from Communism, I am surprised to understand every time that the words you are using to exalt the very great gift you make in democracy with this bill mean nothing. I had previously heard the Prime Minister speak of the correspondence between the seats and the votes. But, of course, there is no electoral system that does not restore a correlation between votes and seats. The question is how, in what form does it. And, of course, you have chosen, in a false way, fraudulent, as usual in this Chamber for the last one and a half years, to call what you say from the'simply proportional' step, in essence, to establish the proportional representation of the people. And I ask: But in this place, if you look at the historians, the narratives of the older people, the experiences and our most mature, there has never been an election system in Greece that does not restore a proportional relationship between the seats and the votes. After all, the Constitution is clear: the presidential decree codifying electoral legislation, n.e.c. It says and stipulates that the distribution of seats in each constituency is to be based on the power recorded by the parties in the elections. So where is this impenetrable electoral system of mere analogy? You do not mention it anywhere in the bill, because you yourself know that your aim is not to bring something new, something more democratic, something more inclusive, as is very strange in the explanatory statement. What you want is two things: do for this place, for the next or the next elections, such a system, which will be spacious for your election presence. In other words, you must make a second party policy, because you have understood very well that this electoral system, which is currently in place, is normalizing between votes and seats on behalf of the small parties, is doing so at the expense of the second party. And because, for a long time, you have become a second party and you will soon be a third, so that is why you want to ensure your political position in this democratic system, which you are supposed to support. But a liberal democracy, in minds of people who have never been reconciled, ideologically, politically, programmed, with the institutions of this liberal democracy, can never be in a harmonious relationship. But what I would like to say to you is this: in the past there have been mere proportionals. There were elections on a simple analogue basis. So it was at 31-3-1946. Done at 5-1950. They did not result from these two elections viable governments. In fact, for the record, I tell you that between '46 and '50 there were fifteen governments, each government on average four to five months. But there is also a memorable case, which is the election of 26-1-1936. From this election, which was done with the mere actuarial system, as you say, there was no government. But what emerged is the status of 4 August 1936. So you're preparing something and you're not telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u80	Mr. Comrade, thank you. You said ridiculously delusion, so there's no misunderstanding in the Chamber. Mrs. Tyloridou, please, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are some political acts which overthrow the traditional concepts, often erect as walls in front of the new one. Such a political act is the introduction of mere proportionality. And it makes sense for those who express the old ideas and the old perceptions to have a reaction, to have many times even defiance. It was heard in this Chamber, especially by the lips of Officerial Response, that an electoral law must have two objectives, representativeness and rulership. Many here in this Chamber claim that the electoral law, which introduces simple analogues, leads to powerlessness and leads the place to instability. So they themselves claim to want strong and stable governments. Who, though, are those who today say they want strong and stable governments? Are they or are they not the same people, the same civilian staff who, from the very next day of the elections, who became the SYRIZA and ANEL government, are asking the government to resign? The truth is, these people, this civilian staff do not want stable governments, they only want their own governments. In the name of so-called rulership, you are trying to favour your position in power, your state above your opinion and citizens' choice. You want the 50 seats to continue, but this does not reflect the genuine expression of the popular verdict.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u82	Please, be quiet! Don't mention names. Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u83	We have also heard in this Chamber the geopolitical dimension of the mere analogous. And from which party space did this sound? From that partisan space that claims to have a deep patriotic attitude and that in cases of national crisis the Greek people must have a united national attitude. I think that riskology and catastrophe can't exist and actually serve your micro-party designs alone. But, from 2012 onwards, the Greek people have shown that they deny the existence of the one-party governments and in the most unequivocal way they condemned the old two-party system which, in the opinion of our people, led our economy to collapse and a very large part of our society to tolerance. Citizens in their vote have shown since 2012 that they want to enter into programming arrangements so that they can deal with the problems together. The arrogance and arrogance of the old big parties, favored by reinforced analogue systems, is well or bad for you now. The proportional representation of the parties is the foundation of a qualitative political culture. Others, of course, in here that long ago they were talking about a fair electoral law, talking about partnerships on the basis of the election convergences, today they are self-determined. They do this in the hope that they will return to power, even as extremists. It is the effort of all kinds of establishment to enforce its sovereignty and its supranationality. The simple analogue is the one that corresponds to the wishes of the Greek people. So, not to be afraid of the crisis of our people, not to be afraid of the crisis of our youth, not to be afraid of the seventeen-year-olds who are already citizens of the world with the development of technology. Hear the new one and let it be born. To give our first reason and first role to our people and our youth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tyloridou. Mr Nicolopoulos has the floor. I would like to inform you that after that, Mr Vardakis, Mr Doussinas, is closing the list of Members of Parliament. Mr Leventis will speak for three to four minutes, the rapporteurs and the speakers will speak and then the other political leaders will speak. In the intervening period, the Minister for the Interior will also speak, that is, after the rapporteurs speak, and will close, he will sum up. Here, Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is enough to think whether it was a one-party or multi-party government that faced the Imperial crisis to answer the Members who went through the Step and said: 'Which - I say, in such difficult times, what harm can a multi-party government do?' You know everyone agrees that the way in which the country is governed is a matter of the sovereign Greek people but also of the will of the national assembly that determines what the electoral law is by its vote. I think that it is absolutely essential, that a new culture of governance be established and that, for the first time, I see that polls which have been carried out and show that most of the voters in the New Democracy are in agreement, they have not seen the light of publicity. It seems that people are asking that we learn to prepare programme agreements and from the fact that in recent years it has given these low percentages to the dominant parties of postmopulation. That is something that cannot be called into question. It's not about a poll. By now making the valuation of the post-government years, we conclude that the popular will has been underestimated by the tempted representativeness of the House on the altar of rulership. We all remember the long methods of electoral systems. Finally, those of us who were here have our responsibility for this hereditary oligarchy. That's the essence, the truth. It doesn't matter that the term might be awkward. It is important that we have mistaken and that the monopartisan, almighty governments have not prevented the calamity that we have been living in recent years. This has also happened with our own partnership or tolerance. I am also listening to fellow Members who respect their opinion and also to the well-known lodges of the interlocutory that I do not honour them at all to say that the simple analogue will accumulate many sufferings in the country. They are at risk all day that the risk of intergovernmentalism will lead the country to a protracted adventure. As long as he sees who the preachers are, to figure out who they are and what their purposes are. I would say tonight that we are proposing these points of view for Oscar hypocrisy. Look who is at stake, those who have led the state to bankruptcy and society in this deep crisis either as ministers or as parliamentarians for this conflict. The place pays with poverty, with locks, with unemployment, with despair, the price of these pre-central governments. In conclusion, the one-party governments have not only prevented the crisis, but some have already created it. What is the confidence in the almighty, authoritarian principle of the one that ignores the people's will? I think that simple analogue is a mature demand of times. He comes to replace this "me" with "we". He's bringing this co-operation wind and making another culture. So the few cease to master the many. It'll be of value to diversity. In today's government proposal, then, the Christian Democratic Party of Greece tabled its own improvement proposals. However, because we in the essentials agree, even though in individual cases we have our own views, we are today voting 'yes'. On the basis of these electoral performances I told you just before, it is certain that the vote on this electoral law does not begin and does not end here. Of course there are many open issues that we need to see and face, from the three hundred to the large constituencies. Questions and questions are a lot and they are honestly waiting for us to respond. In conclusion, I would like to tell you that the Greek Christian Democrats recognize that simple analogue is indeed a demand for broader consensus and cooperation. We know that so far this system has brought us here. An entire country has often been held hostage to this closed prime ministerial environment and entire governments and even parties have been canceled together with the free will of parliamentarians. The simple analogue, ladies and gentlemen, will judge us all more strictly and here we are to judge whether we can work together and that is where we can do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u86	Mr. Vardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I have already heard a colleague from the Officer's Department say to his foreman "let's talk and say the script". These scenarios, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, you have done so many years and brought the country into this situation. With scripts you even spoke of science fiction. Ladies and gentlemen, the country's electoral system has been suffering for years, as political and democratic institutions are being discredited and weakened. There is a lack of public confidence in the representative institutions. There are pathogens, even here with the system of enhanced proportional, again privileges in order to ensure that some of their positions are taken. There have been many attempts to vote for a system which will ensure that the respective rulers remain in power with a bonus for the first 50 seats party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u88	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u89	Bipartisanism was only able to secure the positions of known strangers. A lifetime was served by party purposes, which provide an absolute majority of seats in the House. With the new system, a simple analogue system is introduced and, by strengthening pluralism, there will be pluralism, democratic dialogue, a search for consensus in decision-making and certainly stricter parliamentary control. It will cover the sense of exclusion of a large proportion of citizens. It also strengthens democratic reflexes, gives the new generation the right to express themselves and - believe me - it has a lot to say. The need to involve a greater part of the population in political processes will be addressed and fully aligned with the modern European trend. Our people need a fair, equal, legal, democratic representation and will have it through the draft law. I heard from an MEP yesterday talking about "hells" and he meant young people. Sixty thousand said one, forty-five thousand, the other, how much SYRIZA will get, how much the New Democracy, how much PASOK etc. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not counted either on bushes or on numbers of young people and young people in our country. We give them an essential role and a reason, because they are the generation that is in danger of suffering, if it has not already suffered, the consequences of the crisis that you have created. At the same time, however, it is the most lively piece, the most vibrant cell of the Greek society, on which the hopes for a just overcoming of the present difficult situation are based. I, ladies and gentlemen, say that the points, the proposals, your thoughts are in the right direction for a different, fair electoral system. Why twenty years in times of all-powerfulness, you have not brought them to the Greek Parliament, but on eve of elections you have voted for positive laws, distorting and falsifying the will of the Greek people as it has been for you? Now did you remember the Greeks abroad? You have a great deal of courage today to talk about intergovernmentalism, destabilisation, which the mere analogy will bring, trying to convince the Greek people, a people who have lived and live in their poverty, unemployment, poverty, from governments resulting from reinforced proportionate, co-operative laws, your own governments. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the masks are falling slowly. Unfortunately, however, you do not have the courage even now to recognise the huge mistakes that have led to the depreciation of the political system. I hope it's not too late. Let me say one last thing, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, why are you afraid of the vote of young people, the new generation? I'll tell you what. Because the new generation, unbundled, rewards but knows and punishes. You should know, if you don't understand it, you'll understand it in the elections in 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vardakis. Mr Doussina, to whom I shall give the floor in half a minute, is the last of the list of speakers we have consulted to speak. You should know that a hundred thirteen speakers have been added from the list of Members, other than Ministers, State Secretarys, Rapporteurs and Presidents. So it's a satisfactory number.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u91	Mr President, it is not true. I'm the inch tenth, and I'm not talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u92	Yeah, that's right. They talked a hundred thirteen, because we put in extra, and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u93	Then what happened? The list is mixed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u94	I explained it before, and it was not understood. Because they were only from New Democracy and from SYRIZA the fifteen, seventeen firsts, we put the two Independents and two other parties, so you went below. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u95	Members of Parliament are protected by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u96	Be well! Mr. Dousinas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u97	Thank you very much for the great honour I have to speak last of my colleagues. I would like to lower a little tons, leave the intent and prediction trials and go back to the regulatory foundations of the theory of democracy, which Mr Javaras knows very well. Let me start with a first observation. As language does not mirror a pre-existing reality but just shapes the way we understand the reality, so electoral law does not reflect some pre-existing closed reality but shapes the political field. You understand the importance of this observation. The second point is personal and existential. I'm one of the MPs in the House, because exactly SYRIZA took the fifty seats of the bonus. For the past six years, returning and giving lectures at conferences abroad, I have always had to explain to my fellow foreigners two figures relating to Greece. The first was the grek statistics, which has now entered the manuals and the second was the bonus of the fifty seats. So I'm proud to be here in Parliament with this bonus? Of course not, I don't feel proud. You remember that in 1979, James Callahan told the liberals with whom he had an alliance government when the Liberals dropped it and then came out to Mrs Thatcher that "turkeys are voting for an old Christmas", in Greek "the lambs will vote to come Easter faster" and I am one of them. In Latin I am a political moriturus, because I am voting, not to take the first party of fifty seats in the next election, yet I am voting with pride and great satisfaction. For we on the left, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about people I see here through generations, about Nikos Manios, about Maki Balaura, about Kostas Barkas - we did not join the principles of social justice and democracy, because we expected that we would become MPs or ministers. We did it because we believed it. For us power is not the cement, it is not the link, as it is in the various powerful families that have worked in Greece. That is why I have no problem voting not to be a Member in the next election.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u98	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u99	But here I would add something else to my fellow Members, because they hear and read polls, but they don't know a few basic things from the Comparative Political Science. According to this science and the historical data we have had in the last fifty years, a opposition party wins the elections and becomes a government if it comes before more than 5% of the government's party for six months before the elections. Yesterday we had the ten months after the election. So, do you think that elections are going to be held soon? That's right! In voting for what you are voting on, there will not be elections soon and so I have been saved from the political suicide I am prepared to do on the basis of my principles. But let me say one last thing about the theory of democracy. The theory of democracy is based on a basic principle, the so-called 'principle of democratic autonomy'. He's got two sub-states. The first is that all citizens are morally and legally equal. Secondly, we consider that all citizens are able to exercise autonomy, make the law for themselves and with us. How has this basic principle of democracy now been interpreted by Rousseau, which Mrs Vaki has mentioned? With three wholesale theories, the elite theory that citizens should not be much involved, because problems are complex. So the election is a way to elect political elite, rulership that we hear here. The theory, however, now that we are in the post-democratic age, has created huge problems, passivity, indifference, abstention in elections. Two major theories have now been added - Mr. Javaras, who knows these things - the participatory theory of Walts and the great theory, the so-called'speeching', the 'delibertive' of Rouls and Durkin and Humbermas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u100	Please, finish, Mr. Doussina.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u101	So I'm done here. According to these theories, elections as an essential part of democracy are not something to make an elite, but it is a process that promotes participation and the cultivation of the political crisis. In this sense, the bonus of the fifty seats, which does not create a relationship between the citizens, does not make them a political crisis, does not make them participate and make their lives and take them into their hands, is against the principle of democracy. So this law is the beginning to return to a logic of democracy in the country in which it was born. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u102	Thank you. President Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if, once in this Chamber, the honourable Member has to be aware of this, it is the subject matter. If all the other times you work computingly, this time you have to work with the power and stimulus of each and every one's consciousness. Because this bill we are debating is not about the next few months. It's about the future of the country. If this country went bankrupt, it went bankrupt with self-powered governments. Most of you have been MPs and self-powered governments to explain ourselves. Even you who come now and bring the simple analogue, have in the past been elected with a reinforced analogue. Many of you, not all of you. It is also important that you and the voters have entered Parliament very much. Constantine Karamanlis in 1974 took 53%. They accounted for a hundred and fifty - nine seats and took two hundred eighteen. In his backpack from Paris he brought the enhanced, almost majority, and they are right in the New Democracy to say that they have been breast-feeding with the enhanced one. They're right to say it, they're not wrong. What amazes me is what parties have put it in their founding declaration, such as PASOK. What did they do? These strangely as I have been following over recent years, they are looking for an excuse not to vote, different pretexts such as 'you have not cut the regions', 'you have not made the vote of the homosexuals'. These are incoherent things. They're secondary, because the primary is zero bonus. The main thing is that there should not be 'gifts' and that there should not be seated in Parliament, which does not correspond to voters. That's the first. The others are secondary. The last word rulership has been invented. That means 'give him a gift to rule' because - he says - 'the country will remain unresolved'. Why will the country remain unresolved? In September, if the MPs of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos had not arrived, would they not address the genome, would they not address me? What would I do? Would I leave the country ungrateful? I'd just put in terms. There is no need for elections to be held on Sunday and on Monday we have to swear a government. As in all advanced countries, there can also be 20-day consultation on the establishment of a national action plan. There is no need for elections to be held on Sunday and on Monday the country must have a government. Because this government will be a government with 'gifts', it will be a government with junkies and it will be a government that does not respect the citizen, it will not be a product of honest and transparent consultation. So, at this point, my question and speech are not addressed to the New Democracy. I understand the New Democracy. People are gladly talking about rulership, about "gifts" and stirring fearful partners, that the country will remain ungrateful. People hear these things. The little education world may be afraid of them. The world, however, who is repressed, feels that the New Democracy remains immature and unrepentant. That's how he feels. He can't get the messages of the time. They say in the New Democracy that Mr. Tsipras acts with dome. To accept the view that he acts at all costs and that he makes a law to cut off the forum of the New Democracy. I'll take it. The Centro Association shouldn't have voted? So, in every bill, we look at what kind of spirit each other brings, or are we looking at if it's good for the country? I want to understand. There are good bills for the country that I will not vote for, why will the one who brings them, bring them in a treacherous and treacherous mood? Is that it? Is that how we're gonna work? I told you. If once the Member's conscience has to function, it is her. Because this vote today depends on the way in which the country is governed. In other words, we must move away from the analogy of the self-government governments, the one-party governments and go to co-operation governments such as the whole of Europe, the entire advanced world. The economic miracle of the West came with coalition governments and New Democracy named a bomb for democracy this bill. It's a bomb for itself, it's not for democracy, because it seems you can't live with the culture of cooperation. You call me Tsipra's "dide". If I am a "decade" it will look because Thursday will come and Friday will come on Saturday, Monday and then for the people, for the poor retired, for the farmer and the poor employee and the poor man in any case in this society, only the Centro Association will shout, you will not yell, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Proof that when I say cut off the rich's pensions, do you vote for it? We have eighty thousand cases that have more than 3,000 euros a month. Australia's retirement was cut off. Why did they cut her? To subsidise multiple tents, single - parent mothers, crippled. Do you have the courage to love the poor people to do it? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u104	Down with the rich!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u105	The rich aren't down. Rich Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u106	Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u107	We did not say 'under the rich'. It is not the criminal offense, but it is also a party permanent support of the rich and not to be sighed and uncomfortable when it sees in front of it the garbage cans open and eat, and this, if you'll excuse me, is anesthesia. You said it yourself for a wealthy party. I didn't mention it. It wasn't in the spirit of my speech. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] In the meantime, which impresses me, it is indeed Mrs Gennamas. But if Mr. Mitsotakis comes out with either a hundred forty or a hundred fifty two, because with the course of the memorials, whoever touches memorials, he also has damage. Don't get any delusional. Many parties from the memoranda have been destroyed. May I report them to you? Kouveli, Karatzaferis, PASOK, which from 45% went to 3%, to 4%. New Democracy 18% took place in May 2012. How much did you get in May 2012? Don't you remember? You said you wanted elections and you were sure you'd get them and get 18%. Don't rush and, above all, don't underestimate the world. Let people vote for you. I said to a radio station today that if the New Democracy takes a large proportion, but not by 'gift' votes, that is, to have voted for you people, I myself will subscribe to you for four years. But you want to 'gift' because you obviously know that you cannot convince the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u108	We want a signature!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u109	Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not react!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u110	But for Mrs Fofi I am very sad, and I believe that she will be punished by the Greek people, a party that had in her founding declaration of 3 September the simple analogue, and now, since for twenty years Andreas Papandreou himself betrayed her the simple analogue and many people left PASOK, the second time she does not vote and give victory to the Right. So the night that the Right will enjoy, you PASOK may not exist in the Chamber. You should know that when you're going to triumph the Right, you might not be in the PASOK Hall unless you look for a solution and go with them before the elections. You might do that, too. You tell the New Democracy that youth is immature and we cannot vote on young people. Greece, who bankrupt it? Young people or old people? Who bankrupt Greece? Young people? Young people struggled at the Polytechnic School to be free for Greece. That's what I know. That's what I know. You're the one who's afraid of the young people's vote if they're being transferred to schools. So what do you want? Should students be "glazers"? To be demolition, why are you just afraid of young and modern what will they take over and what will they decide? Also, the homosexuals' vote had to take place for a long time. Why didn't you do it when you were? What are you yelling at? You also blame PASOK, one of its five requests is the vote of the homosexuals. Twenty years that you ruled, why didn't you? Just now as a pretext you add arguments, to say "because you don't do the rest, I don't even vote the central, the zero bonus". You seek such alibis and such excuses. You tell the New Democracy that today the government is doing anti-grassroots measures. It's true that he's doing anti-grass measures. What did you do, philosopher? The day before yesterday, a general told me that he was taking 2,800 euros and Venizelos and Samaras went to 1,400 euros and that we will charge that to Mr Tsipras? We'll charge him a lot more. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Thank you for coming, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u111	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u112	In any case, when you cut pensions from all over the world halfway across the world, and this is what the next government is responsible for, like when you taxed, and when you voted on the memoranda together with Mr. Tsipras, even in August 2015? You're saying it wasn't specific. How were they not specific? It was absolutely specific, gentlemen. If you come and get the vote, what else can you do? Do you have the ability to cut the three pensions and make them one? Do you have the ability to cut off the pensions of the rich completely? Do you have the ability to go to the public to find the slow-wages and displace them? Do you want to make clearance, do you? Well, Mr. Samaras has recently ruled. He said he's pulling the country out of the memorial. Did an investment come? Any investment had come? You went to America and said you had the ability to bring investments to Mitsotakis, I mean. Why didn't Samaras bring them when he ruled the investments? If you're able to bring investments, why didn't you bring them back then? If you had the possibility, and if you had reforms, why didn't you do them then? Why didn't you do the reforms? Do you know what your Chief did as reform? He went and made available five thousand people, whom I watched smoke in the museums, and I'd go around and say, "What are you guys doing?" And they said to me, "We have three more years, four more, we have to work and they took us out of the services we did and put us here in tourists." Five thousand "tourists" built and wants to make reforms! The Mitsotakis family - even though I don't have a personal struggle - is Samaras when he left New Democracy called him a traitor. When he betrayed George Papandreou, what was he? Was he a saint? You saw how you get paid with the same currency, when they leave parties some people and go with the other parties to become government, with blessings from Americans, palaces, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u113	Be quiet, please, the president's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u114	You are a heavy legacy parade and had to with your new perspective, with the new data showing maturity and accepting the new things that bring a country and make it more progressive and democratic. The country went bankrupt with self-powered governments. Every self-powered government, do you know what he did? Every time in the elections, you said lost vote, so that the smaller parties wouldn't take the vote. You were saying that you lost the vote before the election. In the elections you took the bonus, the presents, like the fifty seats, etc. - and I'm sad that today's President of the Republic, who I have so much appreciation for, increased the bonus from forty to fifty seats - and after the elections, you made a certain amount of sense to keep you in power. Three kinds of diversions! First you sent the message of the lost vote, so that the other parties wouldn't take the vote, on the election day you stole the seats and after the election you made appointments and rumors to remain in power. These beautiful golden days you want to continue, because without them we will have power! No, gentlemen, we won't have any insolence, we just won't have a New Democracy government. That is not what we will have, and that is what we have to vote on. From you, I said I don't have any complaints. Maybe if I were you, the same I would vote. But what will historically remain a stigma is the vote of those who say pro-centrics, namely Potami and in particular the Fofi, of whom I did not expect that. I'm telling Fofi right now, the night of the elections will come and I want to see how she'll apologize when he sees the triumph round of Mr. Mitsotakis, what he's going to say. Will he say that he did well not vote for the simple analogue? Is that what he's gonna say? What's he gonna say? That's what I expect to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u115	Quiet, please. Please, be quiet! To sum up, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u116	So each of us in this Chamber has its responsibilities. I have spoken very hard about the Prime Minister and SYRIZA in the past. Many times you have attacked me. Those who think I came with you will see that I have not come at all and I have told you that since the day after the vote, the Central Association will again be to prevent pension cuts, wage cuts and the introduction of barbaric measures. The Centro Association will be struggling with all its powers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u117	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u118	What I want the Fofi not to forget before today's vote is that the people are punished, when positions that are fundamental to democracy are betrayed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u119	Thank you. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You're welcome. Hold on to your enthusiasm. The rapporteurs, Mr Giola and Mr Voridis, and the special speakers, Mr Scandalidis, Mr Katsotis, Mr Barriotas and Mr Marios Georgiadis, will now speak for up to four minutes. They're six colleagues. Here, Mr Giola, you have the floor, from your position, if you please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. The beginning of the political account by the Opposition and especially by the New Democracy, we know it two years ago, was the dubious success story. This was, of course, overwhelmed by the Greek people's vote in the elections of 25 January 2015. He followed the story of the new story, the left parentheses, the left parentheses ten days until February, which you had dug out the pit, the left parentheses a month, six months, a year, and that too. So we ran into another account. We now have the runway, the left-wing run, you expect us to leave, we want to escape. The starving carved dreams, gentlemen, you'll wait long enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u121	Mr. Papadopoulos, please, I'll start personal now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u122	You'll be waiting long enough to get an answer to these questions. Will you tell me what this has to do with the simple analogy? The simple analogue system is that which tries to give the full, equal, fair and democratic accountability of the Greek people's vote with the representation of the parties in Parliament. This thing is expected. Of course it sounds like you say, you say, that we are the second party and, where the elections are, they will prove it. Do you actually insist on the polls, which of course you are rolling, I do not know what you have in 2019, have you already taken a poll? Are we gonna be a second party then? Well, you can tell us to take action.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u123	They're showing the trends.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u124	Because you will expect enough and this time is long enough, we have time before us to see what will come of us. The simple analogue, ladies and gentlemen, is not something that we invented from a left-wing ideology, although it has always been genuine and popular demand and no mechanism has been made, from what you used to be at times machine and implement to have the well-known grasp. The simple analogue, ladies and gentlemen, is not something that we invented from either left-wing or left-wing ideas, although it has always been genuine and popular demand or because it is some kind of mechanism, from those that you used to be at times machine and implement, so that we can have the well-known callothene. The simple analogue - and it is no accident for you in the polls - is now adopted by a large majority of the Greek people. It is known that 57% to 58% accepts and welcomes this system, the system of simple, proportional representation in the House. In fact, 44% of your fans, if I'm not mistaken, applauds this request. I'm not saying it because the numbers are the ones who'll give us the right one. It is no coincidence that the political hegemony and supported and consented to this request, namely the request to apply the genuinely simple analogy. It was adopted by both the large majority of the Members and the parties present in this House, and we will see it by the next vote. So it is the political field and political alliances that demonstrate the existence, the political reality. It is demonstrated by the whole, as I said, by the fervent supporters of mere analogy. There is no political defeat, ladies and gentlemen. The political defeat is in your mind. We may not achieve the two-tier vote, but by a large majority we are expected to vote in favour of the simple analogy, which all the citizens of Greece will welcome and on the basis of this we will be going from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u125	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to give the floor to Mr. Voridis. I repeat that Mr Scandalidis, Mr Katsotis, Mr Barriots, Mr Georgiadis, and then the Minister who will be summed up for eight minutes will then be speaking to the other political leaders. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a large majority of the addition of the Centro Association, you are not saying it. But if you're satisfied with this, we're spared. On the other hand, let me say - because I have indeed followed a great debate and does not make the arguments unjustified today - to what you have answered. Because that was the important thing, and that was what anyone expected to hear. What you've answered. Is a government formed? What was the answer? The culture of partnerships with four parties? Secondly, the question of cooperation, the government of four parties of unequal, mortal and weak nature. What is its relationship to the interests you often mention? Is this government strong to resist, or is it sufficient to find the interests of one of the four in order to blackmail and throw the government away? That's how there's gonna be a strong government? That will be the political world's response to the pressures, fair and unbiased, which it accepts? This system you come to apply. What is the answer to our position that there must be a single adulthood criterion? Who? Youth poverty? Allow me, youth poverty is common in totalitarian regimes. The democratic regimes entrust new tasks and at the same time rights, but not just come to flatter them. Fortunately, as the House of Adolescents meeting showed, yes, our youths are committed to the values of our own party, when they actually brought the Minister of Education before the Minister of Religious Affairs, the Ancient Greeks, the educational system, parades. This is the identity of the Greek youth and not the one you want to give it. What did you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u127	Quiet, please. Mr. Papadopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u128	I am referring to your attempt to show yourself as the youth party, because I have explained that this is essentially the effort and nothing else. Election of what you are doing is insignificant. But, ladies and gentlemen, bad lies, why didn't you answer? You have not responded because there are no answers to these issues. Once again you come and tell us - I heard this terrible false argument - 'how was the country destroyed? Destroyed - it says - with governments, which have come out of majority voting, and so this leads us to conclude that weak governments or non-government will not lead to further devastation of the country. That's the logical conclusion. It's a false argument of a ruthless order, which obviously doesn't even make sense to try to answer it, because the big question is: If you want a big and serious analysis of why we were led to bankruptcy, look at the pressure groups, look at how the interests were organized, look who were all yelling and pushing and imagining so many times with weak governments, to see what is going to happen. Bad lies now, these are easy arguments to repudiate. But what you did and what you expected, Mr President, is what the government and the government were looking forward to, unfortunately, collapsed. So the prime Prime Minister in his planning to block the growing and upcoming majority of the New Democracy and the Prime Minister of Kyriakos Mitsotakis failed. That's the reality! The plan collapsed. The two of them weren't found. The Prime Minister has been defeated. That is the truth and there is nothing more to be said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Papadopoulos, please, I'm not going to talk again. Please. Mr Costas Scandalidis has the floor now on behalf of the PASOK - DIMAR Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u130	Mr President, I am contemptuous, literally, because we are living in a situation which is painful for the country and I see the way in which completely dismantling dialogue and confrontation of views on top issues relating to the country's course. A little while ago we were all laughed at by the always sympathetic President of the Central Association, who, when he swears PASOK, laughs at the rest and when he swears SYRIZA, the rest laughs, zero of PASOK excluding. At the same time, what does this dialogue show me? In here there are dozens of people, I can list them, who have voted when they were in another party and others are voting today, who have voted according to the times in the same party. I can list you dozens of people in here, comrades, friends, rivals or not, who, depending on the time, vote, and that does not exclude them from a dialogue of fanatics, supposedly support opinions, which they have always believed as a position of principle. I have now heard Mr Voridis, who is right about his party, saying that this evening the defeat of the government and the victory of the New Democracy and the Prime Minister tomorrow. They are the two gladiators who will fight for who will save the country next time. The place loses another historic opportunity, another chance to put the field elsewhere, play the ball elsewhere, give another sense to dialogue and political confrontation. The debate has been exhausted, Mr President. He's a link in the chain of crisis. It doesn't break any gordian ties. The law is fragmentary, it is selective, it is opportune. We have called on you, even at the last hour, either to withdraw it and to become a intergroup committee in a month, in two months' time, to bring in an overall proposal expressing the consent of the political system - as far as possible, not the identification - or even today, the Prime Minister, to bring another proposal from her. We gave it a chance. You didn't take her. We are therefore voting against in principle and we will say'residents' in the articles. You will allow me to make three very brief remarks. We made a suggestion. Our proposal includes changes that have matured since the late 1990s. We took a step with the Constitutional Review and an unsuccessful effort in 2003. It is no coincidence that the law that was passed at that time, even colossal, gave the small parties and, more generally, the political life of the country, which had not lived since the post-Civilisation and much more before the post-Civilisation. Since then the political system for fifteen years has been unable to overcome the sufferings it gave birth to itself, to overcome itself and to give an answer to the time it was changing, resulting in the model of governance going from evil to worse than the end of the 1990s, with the result that the crisis of the model of governance to bring a crisis of political representation and finally a political crisis before the economic crisis, that is, before the New Democracy and Mr Karamanlis lead to the last limits of the country's progress. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased I say that we have accepted a large share of our self-criticism responsibilities. I accepted, during the debate and in committee and in plenary, the share of our responsibilities, for things that we have not done all this time. I do not, however, permanently contemplate us either from the position of honorer or from the position of judge or mainly from the position of collectively innocent. We did what we did. There was a quarrel, an indiscriminate retaliatory. There has been a strong resistance from the new Left, which was ambitious to change things in the country to every major reform - which we have been doing all these years and which you have today defended from dismantling and not disappearing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u131	Please finish, Mr. Scandalidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u132	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to tell you, therefore, that this overall self-criticism we must do at some point with great openness to say it to each other. The last comment and I shall end, Mr President. Because we have been living in a paranoid environment all this time, on subversive paths of small-party and speculative pursuits and on various objections to the political context, a summing of economic, mediatorial and political interests insists that we be viewed either at the door of SYRIZA or as a spectators of the perpetrators of power, the aspiring winner of the elections. I would like to point out that this party does not claim to become anyone's heir. He's engraving an autonomous course. It only deals with the development of the new strategy for the country. It seeks alternative paths for the Greek people and because of this it calls for the regeneration of the party, the democratic and progressive party. It does not aspire to achieve a small increase in the percentage. He does not aspire to become a step further in the election order. He does not even aspire a two-digit percentage to the elections. What he aspires to do is demand and claim the Greek people to correct the historic unorthodox of the 2012 vote, as the later developments showed who were right and who were wrong and who could lead things forward. So we follow our course and now and then, autonomouss, without being a helmet to anyone, until the final justice. We believe that history will ultimately justify the line of national understanding, national unity, national reconciliation and truly progressive governance that changes things for the place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Katsotis has the floor on behalf of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. The JRC throughout the debate that has taken place both these days and in the committees has shown itself to the proposal for a law with the dimension that this proposal has, and not with that dimension, given by the New Democracy, that it is a disaster, which is not just proportional - or that dimension that SYRIZA and others give - that this can solve all the problems of the people who are currently struggling with, that is, unemployment, poverty, impoverishment, which will record exactly what you say will not steal votes. However, we have tabled an amendment, Mr President. Today, we are making a request here for a roll-call vote on the amendment to Article 3, which calls for 3% to be abolished. We say, therefore, that the electoral law has no other dimension than the one it actually has. We have said here that the people are bleeding and with governments that have been elected by a reinforced analogue, but also by those that will be created and by the simple analogue, because these governments will serve this system, this way of production that creates unemployment, poverty, impoverishment and the exploitation of our own people. That is why we are saying that the workers and the people cannot be enough to vote every four years, but above all they need to contribute to the reorganisation of the working people's movement, in the struggle that must have characteristics of anti-capitalist and anti-imperialist. We see that, unfortunately, we have developments in our region, which will be painful for the people of the region and the workers and the people will have to fight against these war plans in the region. We say, then, that they should not be interested every four years but every day they should give the battle to reconstruct the movement and, of course, to the other development path, which, as a JRC, we have said, is the one that can, in fact, give philosophical solutions today to the people, which is a path of development that will change order in power. Then, of course, as we have said here, the representation of our people will be there by the production industries, without any other privileges and will, of course, be revoked and serve the very economy that will serve the people's very needs. We say this because many saviors will be presented and presented. Many reserves have the system and they can make a government of alliances, as you say, which will be even more ruthless towards workers and their rights, towards the people, so that they can serve the needs of the capital for new profit paths, to serve all the restructuring it needs, the reforms, the overthrows of workers and the people. We are therefore clear about the draft law. We are voting for the right to vote on young people at seventeen. We tell them that they have to go subversively, because this policy that supports capital is the one that fills unemployment, which is the nightmare of young people, which is the one that tears their dreams down. We are voting for the abolition of the 50 seats bonus. We have said about our amendment. We are, of course, voting on Articles 4 and 5, although we see that this perspective has already been lost. We are making the request for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr Kattotis. Mr Barriotas has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, between the two elections in 2015, some four hundred thousand voters refused to vote. At a time of deep political and economic crisis, I want to believe that the most important problem that exists in the country in relation to the institutions and the political system is the aesthetic of politics and policies from ever-greater parts of our society, which not only turns our backs but increasingly, actively shows indifference towards politicians and politics. One would expect a lively debate in the Greek Parliament - and not just - on this subject, on the establishment of the institutions, on the growth of the credibility of the system and the functioning of parliamentary democracy. Unfortunately, instead of that, we are again closing another cycle, typical of the Transmigration, a debate of an electoral law whose characteristics are micropolitics and hypocrisy, as it has been in all previous years. Micropolitical matters, as the short-lived party interest is being proclaimed and dominated either by the government - once again by the government or by any government trying to block the course of counter-population to power - or we are talking about the refusal of the Police Officer, to table a proposal that is just and correct. It only tries to maintain the privileged - as it believes - a law, which is unacceptable and also undemocratic. I'm afraid it's not about defeat or anyone's victory. In fact, this is another great missed opportunity. I've said it in the past few days. I believed and believe that a left government with its political features, without the burdens of the other parties in the big regions, has had and has unfortunately unleashed the very great historical opportunity - which I am not at all sure will appear again in the next 20 years - to reform the country's electoral system and electoral law in a radical and radical way so as to allow the radical renewal of the political system and the ethos that characterizes it during the post-multimatum process. Unfortunately, the micropolitics and efforts to gather two hundred votes have been presided over, the attempts to alleviate with populist cultures that rush for completely their own reasons and short interests, to alleviate with you. Unfortunately, no reform can be achieved and no change can come for the country. Without the break-up of the regions, the war of the interlocutory, the crusade and the electoral mechanism that we all know very well how to work in this country and what they are producing, no reform of the country's electoral system, no renewal of its political staff will occur. This is the largest and most important element of this cycle and this law, which I am very sorry but is a portion of the same, it is just the same footsteps, a post-multiple that has forgotten that the risk is the interest of the country and the long-term interest of the citizens and not the inter-cystinda between the parties and the small-party interest. We tabled a proposal in an unsuspecting time and supported it until the last minute for a radically different electoral system and electoral law that had the characteristics of proportionality, provided for and helped to create stable governments and at the same time hit the complexion of the major regions. He took care of the renewal of the political scene and of the civilian personnel. Unfortunately, no one wanted to enter the essence of the debate by insisting on communication and micro-policy. We will say no to this law, because we believe that it does not help the country at present, it does not help out of the crisis in any way. Unfortunately, this is a very long missed opportunity and this will seem very intense, very afraid, in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Barriotta. The last of the rapporteurs is Mr Georgiadis from the Central Association, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u138	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I've been under a very big attack lately. Do you know who? From the friends voters of the New Democracy. Personal assault on facebook, with messages personally. Before the election law they wrote me "Bravo. That's what Mitsotakis wants. Why doesn't he ask you to take you there?" Now that we are supporting a stable position of the Centro Association since the establishment of the party - because you wanted to do a fucking slut and look worthy of what you have been doing all this time - we are all having an attack on the Centro Association that we are supporting SYRIZA. Who? The one who is currently running bonuses and who should morally be after today's vote, to determine when elections are to be held. I move on to an issue that has not been raised anywhere. I am referring to the 50% abstention. Do you know what abstention means? Abstention means dismantling our electoral system. Refer to the qualitative criteria of the polls. Because you could say that the intention of voting can also have a lewdness from some parties and be motivated. But the quality criteria are not motivated. They're subjective and objective in the long term. In favour of mere analogy is 71% of the citizens. Let's go to the homosexuals now. Of course we're in favour. Bring an amendment and we will support it. We are in favour of the people whom you have driven abroad, and you should find a way to bring them back rather than just looking at the letter vote. To have reason to be in Greece and to vote in a natural presence. But it is also a solution to the letter vote and we are in favour of it. We're talking about the 3% cap. There must also be a parliamentary group within and not units, such as the independent parliamentarians. I respect them, but we see that committees cannot be followed, the very heavy parliamentary work they have, and they can only look, find an opportunity to speak during a plenary session. There should therefore be a numerical force for a parliamentary group, which can monitor the difficult parliamentary work we have. It is one of the main reasons why we must have an entry limit in this House, in addition to what is said about Muslims, for forces that are motivated by Ankara and so on. The most important of all is that there should be proper parliamentary work, which you on a daily basis deceive. I continue with the break-up of the regions. You say that the regions must be broken to fight corruption. It must be one-sided region, corrupt if it is the politician, it must not be corruption. That's essential. Like also a region such as the second Athens, which is made up of one and a half million voters, do you think it is not right to be represented by the smaller parties? Do you know that, by breaking the regions, neither the Centro Association nor the Independent Greeks, nor the PASOK nor the Potami, would have had representation in these regions why would they take the seat elsewhere? Do you think that's right? It is the most important reason why we do not want the regions to break down. You're talking about defeating democracy. I'd say it's a defeat of conservative parties. For the reference you make to education, I have to say that the Union of Centres and, more generally, the Centre is not a form, ladies and gentlemen. The Centre is a historic part of the democratic area. I will not waste any more time, because we need to move on to the speeches of the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff and the other political leaders who have not spoken. The first thing I have to say is that the President gave his hand to Mr. Tsipras, ending with respect, and I'm going to give my hand to my friend, Mr. Vorides. Will you tell me I'm working with the New Democracy? I'll say the last one. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, get out first, hug our positions and support you will have it. Be sure of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u139	Good. Thank you. I very much ask the Minister of the Interior, Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis, as an expedient Minister, to take the floor for eight minutes to sum up the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u140	Firstly, I would like to mention that the amendments tabled will not be accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate, the very interesting debate on a crucial issue concerning electoral law, is taking place at a difficult time for the wider region. Greece, living the consequences and consequences of the deep economic and social crisis, living the effects of the refugee crisis, for which there was no responsibility, now lives and is destabilising the wider geostrategic region in which we are in. So we need to find the common places when the country is surrounded by such a fluid geostrategic environment. I think we are mature, in this sacred space of Parliament, to find the common places, because at the moment the patriotic duty of all of us is demanding. The government, with great care and seriousness, handles national issues during this period and everyone recognises - both in Europe and in change - that Greece is a country that has ensured stability in this difficult region. But on the inside, too, the efforts of the government and the competent bodies are instigating a sense of security at home. These are two issues, therefore, which are related to the internal field and to the external area, which we must all protect together. That's what the needs of the moment are for. We must recognise that this difficult issue of the bill we are discussing, the overwhelming majority of moments, has been discussed in a calm climate. There are different opinions, different approaches. There are real arguments, plausible arguments, reasonable arguments, and reasonable arguments. This is the beauty of democracy, and there are different approaches. Ladies and gentlemen, with what you want - if you wish - you have invoked the good things that bipartisanism has done - and no one claims that they were just bad, that there have also been good, of course - one doubts that we have a result today? Who's charging the result? Is it metaphysical? Is it not the result of specific options that came from stable, strong governments? Because I heard a good colleague from the New Democracy yesterday referring to the period of the parties that were ruling in the period '30-36, i.e. governments of simple analogous nature, and I would like to say that at that time, if we look at the growth rates of Greece, we will see that Greece then had 5% -6% growth rate. So the argument'stable governments and everything will go well' is unstable. After all, life itself has proved that the electoral system is not what contributes to the stability of governments. You know very well, I can bring too many examples, it does not allow me time, what the stable governments have done, if they have fallen, if they have endured. The electoral system reflects the will of the Greek people and once we give this possibility to a creative dialogue between us, I think it could be done. I started off as an Interior Minister and put forward thoughts and for four months no one answered me. Suddenly, when the government filed the bill, all of this came about which you now resigned to us, that we did not break the regions, that we did not bring the issue of the homosexuals. Honestly, I won't argue because it's worthless, we've been through this so many times. The Greek people will judge all this. So from the moment you have been given the opportunity and not exploited, you cannot speak of opportunism. I'll tell you one more thing. A remarkable colleague said: 'Why don't you take it back, the bill to discuss two and three months'? Why do you not recognise that the government, if it had been in its mind to use the electoral law to play a game and cover the current timeliness, in other words to change the agenda, what you argue about, that is to say, 'I make a bill and I will discuss it in October', and we will discuss the electoral law every day? On the contrary, the Prime Minister gave instructions and said that within 15 days the matter will be closed. This shows responsibility - and you must recognise it - and the maturity of the management of such a matter, which you know very well that it always gives rise to interest while remains open. We tried to find a common place with the progressive powers, but unfortunately, we seem to have burned the forest before the tree. I've heard my good friend and a man who always respects and appreciates, Mr. Kremastino, saying about simple proportions with a 42% chance. I said it once. You didn't answer, but let's just accept that this was happening. You all know that the time of the one-party governments has passed. Those who are studying - and I believe that we are all studying - research, movements into society, processes in society, we know that the citizen has been released from his traditional relationship with the parties, has another different culture and a different approach.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u141	Minister, you have two minutes to sum up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u142	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility of all of us has been and is to inspire society, to cover all these phenomena of the crisis, of the democratic deficit, of the crisis of representativeness, of the crisis in the relationship between the trust of the citizens constantly expanding, of abstention. Society is inspired, when there are initiatives that give it the opportunity of collective "we", of participating, of feeling that he is a citizen and not a submissive, passive recipient of the regulation of his fate by others. An election system is being built and it is not about the next elections. It is about the next generation, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Panos Kammenos, President of the ANEL Parliamentary Group and Minister for National Defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate seems to me to be the beginning of a whole cycle of discussions that has to begin in the Greek Parliament, beginning with the electoral law, the organisation of our democracy, the debate on the Revision of the Constitution and the change, in this crucial turning point in our history, of what has prevailed over the last decades, of a customer state based on the dynasty built by a state structured in a logic that cannot continue to function anymore. The results are the failure of the institutions to function, the depreciation of policy, the depreciation of the function and Parliament itself. I took an example of how many Members of Parliament have been removed from their parties after the post-Macedonia, because they have voted in their consciences as the Constitution provides. They're two parliaments. There are two whole parliaments that have been deleted for this reason and others how many Members of Parliament have voted against at the expense of their own conscience. So if we want to see Greece that is changing - and Greece is changing, it is a given one - we have to leave the stereotypes and together build from here, from the Greek Parliament, from the temple of democracy, what the Minister of the Interior described earlier, the future of the new generations. Two, beyond the revision of democracy, are the pillars. The first is how the electoral system and parliamentary democracy work, and the second is the economic and tax system. Geopolitan Greece is in its most interesting post-war position. It is no coincidence that a few hours ago from the United States, President Obama's envoy, met the Prime Minister, making a statement that I hope some Members will not deprive her, such as the statements made by the European Union, by saying that it gives provocative support to the government. It's not a provocative support to the government. It's a support for Greece. The same support given by the European Union is now provided by the United States, as President Putin gave in his visit. Why? Because Greece is currently in a geopolitical area, where it is the only stability force. At the time of the Middle East, North Africa, Europe is hitting terrorism in cities safe until yesterday, Greece is an area of stability. Economic stability, as President Obama's special envoy and Minister said earlier, is coming. Before the end of President Obama's term of office, the debt problem will have been solved. That is what Europe repeats with a few exceptions. If we exclude Mr Symble and the President of the New Democracy, no one repeats the question of debt as a theorem that it should not go into regulation. I hope that this attitude will change from the New Democracy and its President after Jack Lew's last statements. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, we must build a electoral system which will abolish the groupings of post-multi-population which have led to a substantial abolition of parliamentaryism. It is not an argument that stable governments require large parties. This government is stable with parties from different political places, when we respect each other's viewpoint. There may be compositions in this Parliament and these compositions may lead to much more stable governments than those created with the bolt of the leading team of each president of a large party. It is important to convince the Greek people that the Member in this Chamber expresses his opinion, the opinion of the citizen who has chosen him. That's why the only road is the way of mere analogy. It is actually the path that will give the citizen the right to choose that party and that MP, who really represents him in Parliament. It is time to give the new generation the opportunity to take decisions on the future. I really do not understand some people who say that the seventeen-year-old is immature, while he is mature to sign a contract of employment, and we do not even discuss whether a very large, who votes for what he has lived and not for what he is coming, is more reliable in choosing his representatives. I agree with several colleagues that more should be done in the electoral law, but we can start with these two, which I believe we agree and we have to agree. We must all agree on a simple analogue, the abolition of the bonus and the vote at seventeen. Then, of course, the question of the vote of the homosexuals and of the representation of the homosexuals is a matter which we have taken over over the last fifteen years without having implemented it. We have no reason to remove five seats from the seats of the State carnet. Our suggestion. To abolish the list of State, to be all the MPs elected by the Greek people. We have issues that we need to discuss in relation to the regions. I hear many times about the break-up of the regions being more democratic. I remember in 1994, when I was a new congressman in the second of Athens, when this debate began, the late one, Vangelis Giannopoulos. Then we had very hard controversy on the balconies. He called on us the Members of the Second Athens and said: 'Do you not understand that if the great region of Athens breaks, there will be no people's representation but, in fact, Parliament will be transformed into a group of mayors representing locally small interests?' But it is time to see the creation, probably, of regions with common interests. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time as talking about electoral law, we must also open up the issue of constitutional reform. There can be no credibility for the political world in the Greek people if we do not directly decide to abolish the law on the responsibility of Ministers and if we do not decide to increase the responsibilities of the President of the Republic in the 1986 Constitution and the Greek people's vote on the election of the President of the Republic. The Greek people may have the right to elect the supreme ruler, who will be out of politics, but will have increased responsibilities, as foreseen by the '86 Constitution and the previous ones. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, that we also have to set certain limits on Members' term of office. It's me who's elected 11 times as a MP. We cannot be eternal MPs. Perhaps we can also discuss the incompatibility between the Minister and the Member. We need to open up the debate and talk about direct democracy and about the possibility we can give the people, not just to vote by referendums on big issues that concern them, but also to bring about the abolition of laws by collecting signatures from the Greek people and holding referendums. Of course no one is saying that in national matters we should not see the maintenance of percentages of such things, which, on the one hand, will ensure stability and, on the other, will prevent the creation of problems from controlled centres and decisions that can be made on our national issues. That is why we insisted on 3%. Of course, there may be other proposals to talk about a 2-2.5% and, at the same time, there should be 1% in each region of the country. But in order to do this, there must first be a good mood. We really need to have a democratic dialogue. We have to disagree with our parties on many occasions, and we must speak as elected representatives of the Greek people and with a democratic debate to codecision. I am really very sad to hear fellow Members say on TV "Whoever votes for this law brought by the government will not have a destiny in the sun". I do not believe that with these logics we can convince the Greek people that we are determined to build tomorrow in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to vote, even so that we can institutionalise the possibility for local communities to take decisions, which are particularly concerned with centres of the population. What do I mean? The island of Greece. Insularity is provided for by the Constitution. We must do the same with groups of citizens who have common interests. In other words, instead of bringing in a bill and tabling fifty amendments by fellow Members, we should establish in Parliament a day in which citizens' proposals for changes to legislation will be debated and the Member can do so on his own and without bringing the Minister's amendment, tabling an amendment and discussing it in Parliament and voting on it, and that is not a three-minute speech. Ladies and gentlemen, I think what Greeks and Greeks expect is that on this new day that starts for our country, the political world will take on its hopes. I believe that everyone here, what they want in the Greek Parliament, is trustworthy of those they represent. I will not go back to see the alliances that are formed and which are very sad. It is no coincidence that we see, on the one hand, sincere cooperation on the other hand, there are agreements, as we lived in the previous government, which, in order for two different parties to cooperate, were the prerequisite to eradicate the criminal affairs of one or the other. On the financing of the parties, we are all shouting about what needs to be done from now on. Are we going to erase what happened? Shouldn't the investigation be done in depth and see where all this money went? Black funds of 50 million, a loan of 200 million, bags of Christ, which are in immunity where they are, and no one wants to hurt the past. I would like to assure you that as far as the Independent Greeks are concerned, we are ready and will contribute to this debate without putting party discipline to my Members. I call on all of you today to take the first step. To vote on these two articles, which will enable Members to be released from the temptation of the party. I invite you to vote on the simple analogue and to show confidence in the new children. From now on, we must continue the debate on all the issues relating to the change of electoral law and, now that we have the confidence of our allies, of our friends. We're the only country we can talk to. We are the only country to be able to discuss both with the Arab countries and Israel. We are the only country to discuss with NATO and Russia. We are the only country to discuss with the European Union and the countries of the Middle East, the East and Africa. We can play the role that fits Greece. Be the regulator in a sensitive period and play its geopolitical role, but at the same time, in its internal democracy, put all the conditions, which will take back the credibility of the people. Because never forget that we are the country that gave birth to democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Theodorakis, I would like to make some announcements to you. The Ministers of Economy, Development and Tourism, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic and Infrastructure, Transport and Networks submitted on 27 July 2016 a draft law: ‘Resigning and executing concessions — Harmonisation by Directive 2014/23EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concessions contracts (OJ L 94/1/28.3.2014) and other provisions’. In addition, the Ministers for Economy, Development and Tourism, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, National Defence, Education, Research and Religion, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Culture and Sport, Economic, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Shipping and State tabled a draft law on 21 July 2016: ‘Public contracts for works, supplies and services (adaptation to Directives 2014/24EU and 2014/25/EU’. The above draft laws have been designated by the Government as urgent and are referred to the relevant Standing Committee. Mr Theodorakis, President of the Potamian Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on Wednesday night, almost midnight, we received a message. SYRIZA was a sender. The title was awkward: ‘Note. Election law, but the contents were really interesting. It was a call to overthrow the old system, so that at some point the country can go through programme agreements to governments of progressive cooperation. In fact, the author of the note gave us a period of twenty - four hours to think about it and answer it. The deadline expires shortly and you should give me an answer. You will allow me, however, before I give the final answer, to make a few points: it is strange how a left party, from the first day on which it governs in cooperation with an extreme conservative party, has suddenly discovered the value of the progressive governments. However, more strange is the content that SYRIZA gives all these months to the word "progressive". Is it "progressive", to start with, to allow houlgangs - in fact - to loot public property, that is, the City Hall of Thessaloniki? Is it 'progressive', by continuing with the currents in the broad sense, to put an inspector in the schools of Thrace a nationalist state? Is it "progressive", to go to the biggest, to kneel on young scientists? Is the chaos "progressive" in hospitals, the absence of drugs, the ranch? Is it "progressive" to allow the Pentagon images of popular pilgrimage to exploit the religious feeling of the Greeks? And finally, it is "progressive" to cut ribbons in Santorini, like forty-five years ago and to be forced after a few days to tell the sick "go to another hospital, why don't there are no doctors"? So who are you kidding?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u147	That's a lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u148	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u149	If you are mad at me now, ladies and gentlemen, you have a lot to hear!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u150	There's no such thing as a patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u151	To go to today's theme: Is it progressive, ladies and gentlemen, to exclude from the electoral process those who left because of the crisis? Guys who have studied here, scientists, citizens who are registered on the electoral lists to tell them now "you will not vote in the national elections"?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u152	Don't they vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u153	Is that progressive? And why do we let them vote in the European elections?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u154	Please don't talk underneath! He asks rhetorical questions and has in his statement the right to use them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u155	Who are you kidding? Is it progressive, ladies and gentlemen, not to break the major constituencies, which, until yesterday, were characterised by the SYRIZA officials as the 'best incubators of corruption'? Finally - and here begins the interest - be careful: Is it progressive to be on the 50-seat bonus in the summer of 2015, but to be against the 50-seat bonus in the summer of 2016? And I explain: Friday, July 24, 2015, in the Presidential Palace, they were found Tsipras, Meimarakis, Theodorakis, Gennamata, Kammenos and Paphilis - Mr. Koutsoubas was in other jobs - of course the President of the Republic was also present. It was the lunch to restore democracy. Mrs Gennimata - because I want to be fair to history - first asks Mr Tsipras the question 'what are you going to do about electoral law?' Mr Tsipras gives a general response to the formula 'I am open to discuss it'. I take the floor and briefly tell them of the proposal that we have: the abolition of the 50 seats bonus, a small proportional bonus, the break-up of the major regions and the vote to the Greeks abroad. Mr Majmarakis is hesitant, consistent in his position, that the bonus of the fifty seats in the first party should not be abolished. Mr Pavlopoulou is silent, because he does not want - and rightly so - to be involved in a debate, let alone the Minister who has drafted the law that is currently in force. And Mr Pafilis, of course, reiterates the firm position of the Communist Party on a mere unadulterated analogy. Finally, Mrs. Gennamas and I are pushing Mr. Tsipras to pledge that we will change the electoral law before the next elections. And Mr. Tsipras, in order not to be pluralistic, gives the political leaders and the President of the Republic two assurances, that he will not surprise us with elections and that in any event, before the elections, we will discuss the electoral law. You know her all the time. [[Applause from the wings of the river and the Democratic Alliance PASOK - DIMAR]] You know her all the time. Mr. Tsipras, throwing out the assurances he has given to the political leaders in the trash, announces one month later, without any consultation and without accepting any talk of changing the electoral law and reducing the bonus. In fact, on the phones we were informed that we were going to vote, I raised the matter and said, "We have said that we will change the electoral law." Silence. What, then, took place since the summer of 2015, which would radically change the electoral law, until the summer of 2016, when you change like - such as the electoral law - to change a single article, the bonus of the fifty seats? All that changed from summer to summer, ladies and gentlemen, then you were first and now you are second. And you prefer powerlessness to a government of your opponents. Of course, to be righteous, you are not the first to think in this way. It's a long time ago the recipe from the previous parties. The country has a tradition of opportunistic electoral arrangements. The Tsohatzopoulou Act in 1989 deprived the majority of a party that had taken 47%. But let's go to the essence of the debate, which you've been trying to do in the last few days. Is the simple analogue the progressive change that the place needs today? Oh, no. And certainly not if we're talking about Greece of the crisis. If we had a simple analogue today - you know, you've done the calculations too - five parties should work together to make a government. Is there such a convergence in the House? Have egos retreated so much - let me say - the party lines and party infallibility, which can now cooperate with five parties? Working together to make decisions, not to cooperate to share positions with the ministries. And how will a five-party government work? With continuous consultation of the Heads and endless bargains for each small step? Integrity, uncertainty, inefficiency will bring new packages, hits the market, hits the economy, because no one wants to invest, and no one can hope in an indignant country. Simple proportionalness in a country with a crisis is easy, ladies and gentlemen, to strengthen the opportunityal protest movements, strengthen the extremists, strengthen the populists, demagogues. And the political conclusion will be a constant bazaar and a balance of terror, where every group of Members on the basis that it can be expressed in the polls tomorrow will be able to threaten and ask for certain things that express a number of guilds and not the whole of the Greek people. And such an equilibrium of terror is a paradise for the interests and disciples, which you constantly denounce on other matters. I am listening to various diversities in the last few hours: 'Belgium does not have a government'. Didn't he have a year and a half to make a government? Spain didn't have seven months to make a government? Italy every nine months didn't change its government? And SYRIZA’s companions say: “But do these countries not have effective governance?” That's a good argument! That's a great argument! It's about like saying, since I and Rebao smoke, we're both great poets. What does this have to do with what is happening in Belgium? All these countries have independent administrative structures. Here, if you don't have a government, you don't pay wages. Here, if you don't have a government, I.T. doesn't work, the building doesn't work. So the medicine you're proposing is fake. But the illness you are pointing out is true. We have a political system and we have to admit it and call it, which is the main source of bipartisanism, with MPs in need of channels and donors to be elected, especially in the large regions of Athens and Thessaloniki. In the 2nd of Athens, you must have many contracts with the morning school and the mid - night shows. You have to spend tens of thousands of euros. Why? Why can't you play your part, the quarters, the neighborhood, the neighborhood. To teach you the big audience, you need money and media. So why don't you break the big regions? Why don't you break them? Why are you doing back to what you said you were going to do? Why - listen, listen - there are a lot of things, but above all that your new ally wants the big regions because, as he said, it can only choose who will be elected Members. So sacrifice in the bazaar and this reform. And another favor for the powerful media and money to speak with your own terms. I would like, however, here, ladies and gentlemen, to address the New Democracy and ask: What is the system you want? In addition to the criticism you make in Mr Tsipras's choices, I have not heard an integrated answer to the big question: What will you do with the bonus of the fifty seats? Will you bring it back? It's time today to tell us, Mr. Mitsotakis, what to do with the 50-seat bonus, because we have the outrageous... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Allow me! Because we have the outrageous New Democracy with 19% in 2012 getting a hundred eight seats and it's wrong, it's unreasonable. Is that the standard? Oh, no. We say it clearly: we are far from planning SYRIZA - ANEL.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u156	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u157	And I will say this for the last time if you change your mind and vote for what we are proposing: the first party must have a small head start. One seat for every 2% say we. With 40%, that is to say, having a head start of twenty seats. With 30% to have a head start of fifteen seats. But I want to say here - and I would like the SYRIZA ministers to say so - that we end with a rumour. Are some people thinking that they could become governments in Greece without the first party? Is that what we're thinking? I think - and I think the Greek people also think - that a government without the first party's participation is an anomaly. It is a parliamentary anomaly, of course, if we are talking about collapse rates of less than 25%, so it is clear that no one has the lead. But let's go to the other changes you're proposing. I'll insist a little on two changes: First, what concerns young people. The operational title could be “Blessing the Sixteen.” The government's plan is to gloss about thirty thousand new voters and to give votes - to speak with reality - in the first grade, that is to say, sixteen years old and one day. The "Customs Operation" of course does not start with the electoral law. Mr. Philis, the abolition of general examinations, the reduction of courses, the aggression to half excellence, the scholarship with 6.5 and now the vote in the 1st grade. Vote on High School First! Praise us! Vote us! And you are presenting it as a step forward in democracy. But in the first year of high school the mind of the children is elsewhere, on the way before them and not to which party we will join, which party will govern us. They want rights in school, they want better books, they want to be inspired by their teachers, but they don't want schools in party elections. But be careful. While the government is trying to fool with beads of rights sixteen, you are pulling out of the election map another generation, all those who left the years of crisis abroad. I'll insist. Half a million people, educated, active, determined and denying them the right to vote. Instead of strengthening contact with their country, you close the door on the face. I don't know if you've seen the slogans in social media, social media, but they're interesting. SYRIZA - ANELs learned twitter, they learned facebook, but they haven't heard anything about the letter vote. [[At this point the closing bell of the party president's speaking time is ringing The Potami]] Do you think, gentlemen, where do you draw this kind of authority from? Who gives you the right to remove from the electoral lists the children who have left abroad, those who live abroad? Because that's what you're doing. You're erasing them, cutting them off the right to decide on their future.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u158	Who's cutting their right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u159	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u160	When did this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u161	Article 51 of the Constitution, which some were crying out, states the right to vote on Greeks abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u162	You'll be exposed quickly!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u163	Be quiet, please. Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u164	Of course, look out! If they were citizens of India, Djibouti, Congo, Turkey, yet - the Philippines, El Salvador, South Africa, Brazil, Mexico - they would vote. They are, however, citizens of a European country who are in the hands of conservative policies. Accept it. Governments change, conservative policies remain the same and unchanging ones. [[Applause from the river wing]] So I ask Mr. Tsipras for the last time perhaps, why does the first time not give these children the right to vote? What are you afraid of? Obviously you're afraid that those who hosted for a better life won't vote for a party in which the view that career is a cholera is given. The people of work won't vote for the children of the party tube. It's the evidence that just came out yesterday. From 2008 until today, the Greeks who left have added to the country that is, in all the new homelands that are located, about 50 billion in GDP, and we have spent to study these people - because the potential that comes out is about 8 billion-dollars.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u165	Mr. Theodorakis, summarize.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. So we're telling you again. These people must choose and be elected, remain connected to their country. After all this, ladies and gentlemen, you can understand why the Potami will not welcome the government's opportunityal election planning. We say 'no' to deception, we say 'no' to your struggle for your survival in power. The river will insist on the conflict with the old and the new old you represent. We will fight for the major changes, we will insist on the major reforms, such as the radical proposal to change the electoral law that we have presented for months, with details, leaving aside the cynical calculations. To correct some - and I'm ending up making some miscalculations in the midsts too. Your plan wasn't demolished because the Golden Dawn left. It was humiliated by our firm refusal to say 'yes' to your opportunism. Even if he had not abandoned his camp "yes" the Golden Dawn, the result would be today 197 "yes", 103 "no". I mean, you'd still be defeated. Ladies and gentlemen, do not get so passionate about your proposal, with the changes you bring, because it is very likely that if tomorrow for whatever reason you will be going through the polls again, you will be asked to vote for the bonus of the fifty seats. You'll find an excuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas, President of the JRC Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by pointing out that the contentious issues that are predominant in the past few days, such as the issue we are discussing today in plenary - the issue of electoral law, namely - but also others, do not concern the majority of the Greek people, workers who are close under a barbaric, anti-popular, taxing policy. Of course it concerns you, the various civil servants, the business groups. They are at the heart of the intercourse between the political parties of the bourgeois establishment, with the sole exception, in honor, of our party, the Communist Party of Greece. The people are also concerned with and are also concerned about the new measures you are preparing, on the basis of the Prime Minister's assurances to partners and a great deal of capital that they can support him for the further redemption of the people's strata, for the intensity of the exploitation, only to ensure the well-founded recovery of their capitalist profits. BSE and the Commission have fully revealed all these days this agenda of the new anti-grassroots that are being planned. And this, despite the valuable efforts of the Minister for Labour, the government, the European Union as components, says, of a national social front, which is taking the lead in the face of the reversals, in the face of the negotiation on labour. And too much of the assistance that the Government and the trade union majority of the GFCM have given in this pre-formative social dialogue. But BSE and the Commission have put things in place. These interventions do not cease to have their significance, and as far as they are concerned, as they demonstrate that the Government's efforts are designed to deceive workers, blur the real class division of the labour issue in order to prevent and manipulate, if possible, the reactions of trade union workers. Macro-industrials point to their teeth and real targetings. All at the expense of the workers. In other words, the demands of the large-scale industry and the other parts of pluralism are the complete release of collective redundancies and, indeed, the argument that our country is an exception and that European directives must be implemented. This argument clearly describes what it really means and what the famous 'European social acquis' is being presented by the Ministry of Labour and to which our country must return, on the basis of what the Minister of Labour says, the possibility for employers to declare recompense and, indeed, as a weapon against the abuses of workers' strikes. For the trade union law, he claims he is suffering. It raises the question of the protection of trade unions, while we have a bar of redundancies and persecution of officials from the class movement today - and this is a fact of trade union activity - and it also raises a question of representativeness in the declaration of strikes, which is who will decide every time for them, if not completely abolish the possibility of a branch or business union to declare a strike. It considers that there is a distortion of collective bargaining in the form of compulsory arbitration, even with the claim that the decisions of the LFSD may reduce the cost of wages and that this may discourage, he says, investments. These are said when, in the vast majority, the decisions of the LFSD lead to large reductions in wages, contribute to the reduction and the average wage. However, this is obviously not enough for employers. So there we are also being owed the ox.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u169	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u170	Don't worry, Mr. President. It seems that this does not concern Members here in plenary. Others dominating them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u171	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u172	At the same time, in absolute synchronization, the Commission puts itself in the same practically anti-corruption context of the forthcoming negotiation, destroying the government's myth that tough measures are only the inspiration of the International Monetary Fund, which calls for blood, while the other parts of the quartet come with milder proposals. The fact is that this line, which is jointly served by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, employers, International Monetary Fund, the Commission and a majority of the GFCM, is hostile to labour interests. He's the common anti-legal denominator to bury what's left of work rights. That is why we need to find a set of workers. Contribute in this direction is the call of the federations, labour centres, the development of the struggle on the front of collective agreements and the draft law drawn up on their own initiative for the same reason. In the face of this government policy, none of the other parties reacted. He has, of course, his explanation. How to react, when essentially the criticism of the New Democracy, PASOK, Potami to the government is that it does not speed up restructuring when Mr Mitsotakis from the BSE Step gives assurances that the New Democracy is the party of entrepreneurship, in a crescendo of competition with the government for who is most with the big capital, when the Centroon Union plays the well-known role of rabbit in all the reactionary measures, when Golden Dawn is torn to support Greek entrepreneurship, i.e. the recovery of the profits of capitalists. This strategic partnership with the objective of capitalist recovery does not allow for differentiation, in spite of all the grievances, of the hypocritical findings of the poverty of the people, but they are also being exploited to confirm the need to speed up the effort to regain these capital gains. Ladies and gentlemen, on all issues of topicality there is a strategic identification of all other parties, with the exception of the JRC. These hostage battles in the House and in the channels only take place to overthrow, confuse, disorientate. The over-examination of the controversy on the electoral law, but also on television licences, on the 'SIEMENS' scandal, serves this disorientative tactic, in which the government can take the lead, but the other parties, above all the New Democracy, are using it, in its agony, of course, to become a cleaner defender of capital. On issues such as the above anti-government reforms that are about to come from the autumn or the decisions of the NATO summit, we need to note here the deafening agreement of the other parties, which for some is expressed by voice, although otherwise, is easy to disagree with the government only with the bonus or the number of television licences to be granted. For example, the NATO summit in Warsaw took place at the end of last week. Its decisions are a danger to the people, since they in fact confirm the aggressive orientation of this wolf alliance. In competition with the Americans - Europeans with the Russians, they record beyond the opposite assurances that these conflicts will be exacerbated. One side of these acute competitions is currently seeing with the military coup in Turkey and developments in the neighbouring country, and there is a risk that they will be involved in adventures and Greece and the countries in the wider region. At this summit, therefore, the Greek Government appeared to be more natonic than the natonics, showing intent and willingness to support all the Natali projects in the region of the Eastern Mediterranean and North Africa. For this attitude, none of the other parties said a word. Of course, we understand their attitude, since everyone considers their compliance with the imperialist plans in NATO and the European Union in no way. After all, the President of the New Democracy is taking these days to travel abroad, including Israel, in order to confirm the New Democracy's commitment to the country's geostrategic upgrading targets on behalf of the bourgeoisie, which is also very well served by SYRIZA. None of these parties made a single comment on the NATO Summit. The Nazi judging for serious crimes Golden Dawn, which mocks the right-wing fans with various nationalist crowns, makes both the NATO Summit and Greece's involvement in the plans that undermine Greek popular sovereign rights. However, an even more characteristic example of the strategy of coexistence is the common attitude to the substance of the rejection - of course, with different arguments that demonstrate the differential role of every political force in this House - which, however, kept all parties in discussing the JRC's proposal for a law to relieve overcompensated households. Everyone here has written with the interests of banks, the protection of groups, calling the proposal unrealistic and unrealistic. The representatives of the SYRIZA argued that the JRC's proposal is interesting, but it cannot be accepted because of the economic circumstances. They have tried to deceive this proposal, because it is allegedly aimed at rich people. The thief cries to fear the housekeeper after all. They treat themselves, supposedly, poverty with some punctuality in the various social programmes and deny the framework of rights and protection as provided for in the JRC's specific proposals, which give a real relief, a real solution to the problem. For its part, the New Democracy has made it clear that it cannot support the JRC's proposal, while PASOK has stated that the JRC's proposal is positive and timely, but has rejected it. Potami and the Centro Association then took the role of the attack on the Communist Party, defending the government with similar false arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, in controversy these days on television licences, none of the media involved in the fight are questioned by any of the business groups that are involved in the fight. Not at all! The real object of the struggle is how the pie will be re-shared among the entrepreneurs concerned, with victims, and here again the workers in the media. In other words, this is a pie-sharing that has a direct economic and political dimension. It is economic because it concerns the reorientation of business groups and the sharing of advertising pie and policies, because the process is obviously linked from the one hand to the government's attempt to limit the media opposition to it and, on the other, - on the other hand - to extract media support in the course of governance tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to come to the issue of electoral law, for example, disputes are moving around the axis of 'guarantee of parliamentary and governmental stability'. The electoral law aims to ensure normality in the government's rotation and to create conditions for even greater consensus in the political system, in order to indistinguishably and by broader division, this time, of responsibility between the parties of the European Union and capital, to move forward more, faster, to unpopular restructuring. Of course, the people in which all - government and opposition - want them to join the objective of this recovery that only requires sacrifices, without end, on their part. Of course, this axis is mutually acceptable to everyone. The disagreement lies in how this will be achieved and, of course, who will have the upper hand in this process. The other parties, in other words, criticising aspects of the government's proposal, are beginning to see whether or not the electoral law can serve government and political stability to continue the same anti-grassroots reforms again. It unfolds this great bazaar between the various urban parties, which is not just about the provisions of electoral law, but also about future government cooperation. The government's proclaimed objective of bringing together the two hundred votes needed to bring the law into force from the next elections was more and more to give the image of a broad consensus, on a flagship - as it is presented - an initiative that the workers of our country will not see in their dreams. So he thinks he finds a lifesaving in the proposal to introduce a new electoral law. The JRC is the only party that has held a stable, consistent and clear position since the beginning of the debate and as regards the general political considerations, which we have presented yesterday and today in detail here in plenary and what has to do with the electoral law proposed by the government itself. As we have made clear from the outset, and in principle, and on the articles, we are in favour and vote in favour of specific articles: Article 1 on the vote on seventeen, Article 2 on the abolition of the bonus, Article 4 on the settlement of seats and regions and Article 5 on the validity of the law since the next elections, if we collect the two-tier votes. We are voting against Rule 3, which retains the 3% cap on a party entering the Parliament, and we ask the Members to vote in the roll-call vote on the amendment tabled by the Communist Party of Greece on this issue. Turning its fire more towards New Democracy and trying to support the PASOK, the government is trying to give the controversy about the electoral law of confrontation between light and darkness. Thus, the forces in favour of the draft law serve toward the government progress, while those who reject it or condemn it are identified with maintenance. It is, though, isn't it? The answer from the party of the Communist Party of Greece is unequivocally 'no'. Regardless of their disagreements with the individual parties, the government and the other parties in the opposition are fundamental hereafter: the electoral system should serve in the most effective way governmental and political stability so that the implementation of measures and policies which the Greek people need continues to be implemented with the greatest possible consensus. Their common understanding is the basis for the various games that are going on. SYRIZA considers electoral law as a catalyst for co-operation governments. He believes that in this way the responsibility for the address and exercise of anti-population policy is spread to more parties. All this, of course, in order to translate more easily and more widely the political consensus in agreement, tolerance and complicity of our people in the policy that breaks him. That is what they mean when they talk about social cohesion and peace.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u173	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u174	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Does the New Democracy have a different view for the purposes of electoral law? No, of course not. They are verifying it with what the Members of the New Democracy said yesterday and today. Poor - like SYRIZA - political stability, reflected on the other side of the same anti-popular currency. The other parties also voice individual objections to the basis of their anxiety as to whether the SYRIZA proposal ensures political stability. Of course, we understand them, since these positions are not irrelevant to the general reorganisations, to the processes of the so-called centre-left, and to their intention to upgrade their role in reconstructing the political system to one or the other. Something similar, of course, is also happening in the area of the so-called Right, from the New Democracy to the Golden Dawn. The JRC, with stability and consistency, defends the position for simple and unadjusted proportions. This position is also included in the amendment - an addition to the draft government law on electoral law, calling for the simple proportionalness of the bonus of the fifty seats and the 3% cap. At the same time, however, we will continue to reveal to the people the advisability of all this debate that has opened, the processes that triggers or facilitates, on behalf of the bourgeoisie, its long-term interests. The main thing is for the people to realise that whatever system they have, the governments which will come about, politically or unilaterally, will implement policies and measures at their expense if the situation does not change radically. And when the people raise their heads, they will tell them from above that they have voted for them and that they have expressed the majority, that is to say, up to now. In this anti-Fraud Convergence of Urban Cooperation Governments, the only thing is that the JRC will not give in. We will never betray the working people's interests, give hands to the potential and exploiters of the people on the basis of their policies. The key to the people is not in the electoral system, and therefore in the polls and governmental rotation of the same cutting, managers, namely anti-population policy, regardless of whether it concerns one, two or more parties. The key lies in organising the struggle of the people in the places of work, in breaking the phobia, in fatalism, in the logic of reduced demands. It is located in the fortification of the Greek people really at the forefront with strongization everywhere of the JRC. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one safe conclusion from all of the previous ones: in Greece two different paths conflict. One is the way to support the capitalist recovery that passes through the dissolution of all those who are still standing up against rights, the full support of monopolistic groups, of course, on the basis of politics, the deeper involvement in NATO and the European Union planning. Unfortunately, all other parties are defending him despite their individual differences and oppositions. The other way is to reconstruct, the movement of the popular alliance, conflict with the strategy and power of capital and their alliances. It is the way to defend the direct and vital future interests of the working class, the poor populaces. It is the way to free the people from life without rights, from life with crumbs, from exploitation, from the risk of wars, with the people actually in power of this place, the owner of the wealth they produce. This is why the JRC struggles consistently and unreservedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Gennimatas, President of the Group of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Alliance of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) - DIMMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, the trick didn't work this time. Everyone understands that you're playing with the simple analogue because you're afraid of the simple logic, which he says? It says, "You can't, you screwed up." The Greek people experience every day, in the worst way, in their everyday life, the results of your political choices and inability. Response, unemployment, shop lock, tax raid, hospital collapse, cut pensions and the abolition of the CSCE. At the same time, we have a cut, a permanent comitology and, of course, a management by our public property partners, the public wealth for a century. Terms of defeat. Would you speak, Prime Minister, for a simple analogue if the polls showed you the first party? Not even by the way. That's for sure. As long as you saw there was room for social deception, you were fine to use the bonus. Now - as, after all, you yourself confessed in a recent interview - you no longer have a love affair with the people. But once again, you haven't told the whole truth because you've been selling, supposedly, left boldness and charm and the sky with the stars. That's not what love is called. It was a seduction. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Now bring the simple analogue as a left vegetarian to the right - right policies that you are implementing. You can do everything just to extend your stay to the warm chairs of power. And this in itself makes you dangerous, able to continue toys and to extremely critical issues regarding the core of the operation of the state and of the culture. Why, while you do not even have a serious proposal for a constitutional revision, throw percussion and shine grenades for impression and distraction. You think that's how we'll stop talking about everything I said before, about what the Greek lives every day. Unfortunately, we will not be surprised to see, on this subject, rough and irresponsible choices, which will, of course, serve your small and medium-sized interests. But the guards know. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately once again we are discussing an error issue, in the wrong time, in the wrong way. But mistakes are not just the everyday life, the routine of this government. Turns out it's the government's wrong. And you may pass, Mr. Tsipras, beautifully in the virtual reality of the parallel universe in which you are lately in, but the country is in a historical transformation. And, unfortunately, he has the misfortune to have at the wheel your government, a government of unbearable lightness. Prime Minister, at some point you must finally get in touch with the earth. And the current developments in the wider region leave no room for other tricks and tacticalisms. Well, just so we're done, don't look for us as accomplices for your terrain. Look for other prey for the trap. For this is a trick - not to say a heavier word, Prime Minister - to have the Minister responsible for making announcements for smaller bonuses, for a more proportionate system, and on the same basis you can assure me that you are seeking to find wider consultation with us and with the Potami and with the New Democracy on a simple analogue system. And after a few days you remembered - it says - the sanctuaries and loyals of the Left and by fast track process brought a fragmentary law, completely cut off by an integrated plan for the necessary changes needed in the political system. Another thing you say is you do. But now you are also coming 'you are also asking for the change'. And don't say any more about the proposal for a PASOK law. To end this 'candy'. You rejected it twice last year, you have to apologize. We simply, with our new proposal, move forward. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It was a very characteristic thing that Mr Theodorakis said earlier about what happened in the Presidential Palace on July 24, 2015, when we told you not to go to elections, that the country should step on solid ground, that the debt debate should begin and that this House, which has so much consensus - five parties and two hundred fifty MPs - should be held with a more proportional system and with the break-up of the major regions. And you answered us then: "I will not surprise anyone. We will discuss and reach agreement on everything." Your credibility is so great, Prime Minister! Your word contract! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And now we'll finish the second fairy tale. You and not us make Mr. Mitsotakis happy. Because with your policy and your inability you facilitate right-wing rehabilitation. With your refusal to discuss an integrated proposal, as we have tabled it, you are giving the next power suitor, fifty bonus seats regardless of the percentage he will bear. Should you think about it even at the last minute? You could, Prime Minister, have agreed. You could have interrupted the process and debated seriously, so that we could reach a broad agreement on the integrated changes that had to be made to the electoral system. We told you: "Don't bring any distractive arrangements, don't bring any doses arrangements. We will not support it." You knew it. You knew where you were driving things. Unless it is your commitment to the government cohabitation pact you have with your partner, Mr. Kammenos, or commitments to your other political flirt, who more and more understand, with part of the New Democracy, which has cut you off and the tongue and you have said nothing all these years for the period 2004-2009. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, the PASOK has worked out and tabled a coherent, alternative and comprehensive proposal for the changes to be made to electoral law. This proposal serves the objective of proportional representation, equality of vote and respect for the verdict of the Greek people. It favours both dialogue and understanding, as well as governance, the possibility of converging programmes so that the country can finally come out of the memoranda. Why don't Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis take the country out of the memorials! No one alone can say what they want! The country will only stand on its feet through national consultation and a national reconstruction plan. And on the occasion of repeating once again that the position of PASOK and Democratic Integration on issues of government cooperation is clear, given and unnegotiable and, in my opinion, expresses the will of the Greek people: Strong government of national understanding, broad political cooperation between all pro-European forces that will serve the national line needed by the country. This government will deal with all the paths and distortions they have caused and led to the crisis. So I would like to make it clear that there is no mistake: the pillaging of the democratic party is over, it is in the past, and anyone who thinks of himself as a minister with the Democratic Asylum of either SYRIZA or the New Democracy will do well to find space from now on on in their ballots. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, our proposal was presented very thoroughly by both our rapporteur and all our Members and it strengthens the transparency and credibility of the political system. In summary, it shall include the following positions: Firstly, the abolition of the bonus up to 42% so that the simple analogue can be applied and the fake dilemmas of small bicommunism are struck. Secondly, if a party or party coalition exceeds 42%, then a smaller bonus of twenty-five to thirty seats can only be activated. With this provision, we respect the verdict of the Greek people in the event that a party wants to govern itself. But if that will not be the case, then we must finally learn to cooperate in this country. Thirdly, the fragmentation of the large constituencies, in order finally to increase transparency, to prevent duplication. I wonder: Can the government today claim that it is a small issue for the regions and leaves it outside the arrangements it has brought, a party which has had a "significant" blow to interlocutors and transparency? How much left perception is that? How much does it have to do with the Left? Fourthly, maintaining a party's limit of 3%. We must avoid division and fragmentation. 3% is one of the lowest in Europe. Fifth, the vote at seventeen. It was the PASOK that introduced the vote in eighteen and after thirty-five years I believe that our youth has the opportunity and the information to decide, make its own political decisions and make its own choices. Sixth, the possibility of voting for the family, but also for the Greek residents abroad, because in the electoral law you will shortly be voting on - those who vote for it - you are provokingly not only the right to vote but also all those hundreds of thousands of people, mainly young scientists who left the country in the years of the crisis. Are they not entitled to express their opinion, to make their own political choices about how the country should be governed, much more so that they can return back? Our integrated proposal is an act of responsibility, a proposal without tricks and hoarding and micro-party games, as they are evolving by the New Democracy and SYRIZA, which could really be a basis for dialogue to find a wider support and understanding for the necessary changes to the electoral law, a system of integrated and functional, rather than individual provisions in instalments. The government desperately tried and failed to trap political forces with false dilemmas. The real dilemmas, however, are clear about both SYRIZA and the New Democracy. The dilemmas are before them by Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis, who are increasingly operating as the two sides of the same currency. They're working complementaryly. They are now trying to take the papers of political developments, with elections obsessed with small-scale toys. But we did not become part of the two hundred to vote. We're not going to be part of the two hundred that'll be digging over the next period. Do we understand? Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal of specic has been done in many respects about the position of PASOK. What can we do? Some people in this place know how to do politics only with trolls and specs. They don't touch us the trembling. We are concerned that the circle of thoughtful Greeks that has eyes to see and ears is growing to hear. And they know that PASOK has one single line, the national understanding to get the country out of the crisis. Your responsibilities are historic, Prime Minister and Chief of Staff Responsibility, as you prove with your actions and your behaviour that unfortunately no lessons have taken over all these years of the crisis. Business asUSal. Corruptions and micro-party games. Nothing's changed. It's only you who cares about the legacy and the authority. So you are even more deceiving politicians and politicians in the eyes of citizens. Achievement of the country's objectives requires another political culture. And the PASOK, in so far as it is concerned, is doing this new concept of politics. Because the bet to get out of the size of the crisis is national, it's over orders and colors. It concerns all Greeks and the right to hope again and to feel proud again. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we owe them bridges and not split fronts. But that cannot be a stylish promise. This concerns a new reality built through the consultation, dialogue and service of a national line. This is for us the simple, inappropriate, unadulterated, patriotic logic and it we serve. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] So let them not look at us for an alibi and alibi, nor for willing idiots. To us, look again when you can look us in the eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gennamas. The President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, forty-two years ago, the seven-year-old dictatorship collapsed after the betrayal coup in Cyprus and the Turkish invasion and democracy in our country returned. Constantine Karamanlis methodically and decisively led the country to Europe, to political stability, to development, to democracy. Transmigration was a fact. The unity of the people, the firm leadership and credibility have been the prerequisites for making this great democratic leap. And they are the same conditions that we need today to get out of the crisis and the memorials, to leave behind fear, uncertainty and fatality. Today we need truth and trust. We need unity, trustworthy, serious leadership with vision and design, primarily to keep our country a lighthouse for security and stability in our troubled region. We are often all talking about the new Migration, which will mark the intersection from yesterday. But the values that inspired a previous generation of leaders to give their own struggle for democracy and freedom today are more timely than ever. Those of us who are committed to the service of the public interest must not forget that our purpose is one: to improve the lives of citizens, let them free to develop their talents and abilities, bring patriotism, entrepreneurship and work. We should leave behind all the pathogens that brought us here. To give hope and perspective again to all Greeks. The power, ladies and gentlemen, is not an end in itself. It is a means to achieve these objectives. And the institutional initiatives aimed at strengthening the principles of democracy cannot endure in the distorting lens of party self-interest, because then they undermine the cornerstone on which the structure of each democratic state is founded, the trust between citizens and politicians. Ladies and gentlemen, every political initiative is judged not only by its essence but also by the motives of the one who proposes it. I really do not think there is today a citizen in this country who has any doubts, Mr Tsipras, about the real purposes that the government has in proposing this electoral law in the Greek Parliament. You see that you are heading for a heavy defeat in the next election and you want to cook the electoral law to make it difficult to form a government majority from New Democracy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] These are your real motives. And today we are witnessing a cynical tactic by a government and a Prime Minister who, while they have failed, are all they care about now is that the country should fail with them. Because they can't rule, they want lawlessness in total. Because they cannot deal with the major problems they have made themselves worse, play games with institutions and undermine political stability. Because they know that whenever elections are held, they will be defeated against a state by the New Democracy, trying to make the next SYRIZA government hostage. Because they know that they have virtually no possibility of political recovery, they are cooking the rules of the game to maintain access to power even from a minority position. Because they certainly are not interested in upgrading the political system and the quality of democracy, they bring an electoral law, which is the last it does, Mr Tsipras, to deal with the real and recognised diseases of the political system. So we tell you clearly. It won't pass. This electoral system that you brought will not apply to the next elections. The democratic reflexes of the Greek Parliament will prevent your plans. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This political cynicism with elements of treachery will find an alliance of democratic forces, which, despite any differences between them, will oppose your efforts to undermine political stability and lead the country to ungovernment. Enough damage, Mr. Tsipras, you've done the economy. We will not allow you to erod and salt the institutional substrate of political life. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that many citizens find the idea of simply proportionately attractive. They consider it an electoral system which fairer reflects the concept of popular sovereignty. I will try today, with my speech, to convince them that they are not right and to reject the arguments in favour of mere analogy, because the simple analogue, ladies and gentlemen, is not a threat to the New Democracy. It is a threat to democracy itself. And I'll start the conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u179	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u180	Don't shout, ladies and gentlemen. Many of you wouldn't be in this Chamber if there was no bonus of fifty seats.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u181	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u182	I will begin with the observation that the debate on the change of electoral law...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u183	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u184	Be quiet. You might learn something. The debate on the change of electoral law comes from pragmatic and historical inaccuracies. And it is really useful in the public dialogue to restore the truth. Really first. Unlike the current viewpoint, there are no 50 seats bonuses for the first party. And you know that very well. The first party never takes fifty seats more than it would have been if the simple proportional distribution of seats existed. The actual bonus is between twenty-five and thirty-five seats. In other words, the bonus we are debating today is 10% of Parliament's total seats. That's the bonus. Indeed, secondly, as many times as have been implemented, Mr Tsipras, the mere proportionalness in our country has been rather traumatic and I think a brief historical review is extremely enlightening. Well, from the middle of the 1920s to the beginning of the 1950s, it was only proportionally applied in almost all elections, except in '28, '33 and '35. Do you know how much the average life of the governments of mere analogy was? Just six months. '26 couldn't form a government. We have led to a global government which has broken up, and cannot deal with the refugee issue. Eleftherios Venizelos came with another electoral system, a majority, and the only government in the Middle War that served its mandate was this government, Mr. Tsipras, of Eleftherios Venizelos. And when the simple analogue came back in '32, we got back into adventures and finally reached the dictatorship of 4 August. And in '46, when elections were held on a simple analogue basis, do you know how many governments this House gave, to which the Left didn't even participate? Ten different governments gave the simple analogy, and when it was implemented again in '50, we had three other governments. So this is the story of mere analogy, turning back several years. But I cannot remember as President of the New Democracy in '89. Then, when the New Democracy victory course, two months before the elections, was overturned, some remembered the simple and inappropriate analogy. Two months before the election! What was the result? Three confrontations to reach...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u185	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u186	Who were they? Some have moved into your own political space. Why are you surprised? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In the end, a powerless government was formed, only when the New Democracy came to 47% and it was with one seat. In fact, third and more important: The implementation of the simple analogy. The existing political system, with the existing division of forces, makes it extremely difficult, if not impossible, to form a stable government. What would have happened, ladies and gentlemen, if the simple analogue applied in September 2015? Let's go see what's going to happen. You would first have a hundred fourteen seats, so I told you that several of you would not be in the House. The New Democracy would have ninety. The two parties which would never have been in any way a government figure would have forty and the other four parties fifty-six seats, twenty-fourth Democratic Reconciliation, thirteenth Potami, twelve ANELs, eleven the Central Association. How would a government be formed, Mr. Tsipras, with four, possibly five, parties? You would need such cooperation to form a government or government between the first two parties with a Civic Anti-Civilisation on Golden Dawn. It is obvious: simply proportional means insolence, meaning political instability, it means unrest. What did you tell us, Mr. Tsipras? "Great turbulence, wonderful situation" you told us, repeating Mao's saying. This is the purpose of your proposal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You can criticise us for many things, but the New Democracy has always been a supporter of the enhanced analogy. We didn't hide it. We believe that we need an electoral system that promotes representativeness, but also ensures governance. And you know, unlike you and others, we did not adapt our views to the political circumstances. We've had a rough time, and we've had a party since '74. Neither Constantine Karamanlis nor George Rallys, nor Constantine Mitsotakis, nor Kostas Karamanlis nor Antonis Samaras, ever thought of changing the electoral law to obtain party benefits. And they could do it. And very easy to do. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But they didn't. Do you know why? Because the New Democracy was and remains something unknown to you, a party of principle and values. The political amoralism that you are displaying today in your proposal is another proof that the supposed moral advantage of the Left is a womb. Previous laws can claim that yes, they were created to help a weak majority rule, but today's plan aims to remove from the majority the opportunity to govern. The systems of enhanced analogy have a great advantage, ladies and gentlemen, produce governmental stability, whether you like it or not. Bonus is not a undermine of popular sovereignty, it is a respect for the will of the citizens for who ultimately wants to rule them. The simple analogue on the other hand, other speakers have told you, eventually leads to such heterogeneous alliances that make the exercise of effective governance almost impossible. At a time when, Mr Tsipras, determination and government cohesion are needed to implement difficult decisions, the simple analogue will produce exactly the opposite results: paralysis, instability and ultimately short-lived governments. To tell me who will come to invest in a country when it does not know what the life horizon of a government is and what security guarantees are offered to the citizens when a heirly government alliance with four or five parties will be needed, Mr Tsipras, to face a great geopolitical crisis? With the simple proportional political process degenerates into a loss of pressure and blackmail and many - I doubt that - will be tempted to sew their own regulator costume on the dissolved remains of the credibility of the political system. And the government plans instead of promoting consensus - I will then talk about consensus - lead to governments of a minimum common denominator. But who is this little common denominator? Is it a programme agreement, or is it the sharing of power in terms of an Oriental bazaar? In theory, simple analogues appear as the deposition of popular sovereignty. In fact, however, it is the safest way to undermine it. Let's see what's going on in Europe. Are there supporters of mere analogues anywhere in Europe today and we do not know them? Even in Italy, Mr Tsipras, the time-consuming champion of mere analogy, after many decades of experience, tens of governments, who fell after one another, Mr. Rencie, a social democrat, otherwise, changed the electoral law and there is an enhanced analogy in Italy. And today in Italy if the first party takes 40%, it will get about 54% of seats, that is, eighty-eight seats bonuses at six hundred and thirty, more than what we have today. So your choice, Mr Tsipras, to introduce the simple analogue is selfish, is unseparable and is unintelligible. Of course, it is not in a year that is politically neutral, in a context of reduced political suspicion, a prerequisite for broader consensus. How politically honest is it, Mr. Tsipras, to change the rules of the game now that they don't suit you? Is there a greater confession of defeat in the upcoming elections than the change of electoral law? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And since you're so tired of simply proportionally, since it comes from a deep ideological belief in the correctness of the system, why didn't you really change it in your first term? In particular - look - there was a proposal put forward by another party, and it would probably pass by. So why didn't you? Why did you go to elections with the current system? Because you knew very well that your bonus was convenient in September, so you did not change the electoral law. This is the definition, ladies and gentlemen, of political turbulence, of ideology or anything else, of cynical occultism, of political amoralism. I see next to you the Minister of the Interior, who is proposing this bill. I understand the difficult position it is in. He told us a month ago that he was simply analogous and was forced in your own positions to change that view. But he's not alone. Looking for my record, I found a very interesting article on the issue of electoral law. Written by the author in 2014 on word and I read: "Othermore, the electoral law was the secret ace of the government coalition aimed either at guarding the vote by plundering the less powerful parties or - be careful - to block the formation of a government even if the opponent would have the majority". The author continues, remembering the Minoan Kotsogiorgas: “We will lose, but the others will not win.” Who wrote these in 2014? The Minister of Education and Instructor of the newspaper “AYI”, Mr. Nikos Friend. What a friend, what a Kurublis, what a cougar. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to make a reference to Article 1 of the bill, which gives the right to vote - take care - not to the seventeen, but to the sixteen, most of them at least. Everyone understands the real motives for this move. To tell you, however, in the youth language, I do not think the young people are'sicking'. And if you really want to do something good for young people, Mr. Tsipras, get a little bit involved with universities, give employment opportunities to young children leaving abroad, support youth entrepreneurship. Finally, do not allow the disgraceful phenomenon of the occupation of Aristotle University by a dragon of peripheral anti-Semitists, who plundered today and the City Hall and you see them and you allow them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And let me tell you something else. You think the sixteen and seventeen should have the right to vote. With you. Do you think that they should also have the responsibilities arising from adulthood? Should they be taxed at sixteen, tried at sixteen, have all obligations towards the law at sixteen, have full legal rights? I guess that's what you mean. Because I know that where there are rights, there are responsibilities. But with what you're doing, you're mocking young people and you're not convinced that you really care about them. Ladies and gentlemen, I find it extremely indicative of your intentions, your motives, the fact that your government proposal is, in essence, exhausted in two articles, the bonus and the right to vote for the sixteen and seventeen. You've been told by a lot of others. Are these just the problems of electoral law, Mr. Tsipras? What are we going to do with the big regions? Do you not recognise that there is a problem of representation and accountability in the large regions in particular? Do you not recognise that these are the regions that promote selective relations with the media, whose support is necessary to get an MEP out in chaotic regions, such as Athens and the Attica region? And in order to freshen up your memory, I have tabled a proposal since 2004, first elected MEP in Athens, to break the major regions. So why don't you agree, Mr. Tsipras, to the obvious? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Well, I don't see him here, he left because Mr. Leventis doesn't want it, I guess. It is interesting that you have personally followed Mr Leventis' speech but not Mr Kammenos's speech. You guys ready for a shovel? I don't know, but I found it very interesting. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Indeed, Mr Tsipras, we have tabled a comprehensive proposal for three months now, and together when we were together, to facilitate - because it is not a right, it is a facility - the Greek citizens who live outside Greece. And be careful, Mr. Theodorakis, it's not just the five hundred thousand who have left, there are others who live for decades abroad and exceed the million. These citizens have a constitutionally guaranteed right to vote and we need to make it easier for them. So why don't you, Mr. Tsipras? You've got a good proposal. We have put it to the vote. So why don't you do it today? Take the initiative today and all parties will agree, I have no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u187	So many years why didn't you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u188	Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u189	Please do not ask questions underneath and interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u190	I'll tell you why you don't. Because it just doesn't suit you. Why do whatever suits you, not what's right for the place. Because you are the epitome of political amoralism and party opportunism. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate, which is taking place today at the end of July, in due course, on electoral law, certainly serves another purpose. It is an attempt by the government to transfer the debate from the major problems of the economy and society to institutional intervention. Unfortunately for the government, but unfortunately also for the Greek citizens, the economic destiny has been impossible and the account of the disastrous negotiation of the first six months has already reached the people. They have submitted tax declarations, pensioners have seen pensions cut down, the CSCE has disappeared for many, and of course, the account of HNVIA, which you would have abolished, comes shortly after summer. Businesses close every day, workers lose their jobs, an economy that is anchored under the burden of unfavourable taxes. Hundreds, thousands of families can't go on vacation this year. Investments do not make a climate of collective depression, if you have not understood it, has devised the country as a toxic cloud. And in this morbid climate, the debate on institutional interventions sounds like an escape from the economic deadlocks, but it should not be that way, Mr Tsipras, because the issues relating to the quality of our democracy are very important to bring them up to the level of communication planning and are certainly at the core of the crisis of confidence that is afflicting the political system. However, unfortunately, the government is playing with the institutions and instead of alleviating this crisis of confidence and instead of sitting here in a good mood on these issues, you are acidifying, dividing, rather than seeking compositions. Let me remind you that last year we had a referendum - parody, a monument to political amoralism and turbulence. The methods followed by the transfer of ERR powers to your favourite Minister, Mr Papapas, for the control of the broadcasting landscape, unwritten interventions in justice, which are almost confirmed by the parties themselves, who come to the committee and, of course, the inexhaustible appointment of best friends and friends, to control public administration. And now it comes as a crown of this "institutional sensitivity" the proposal for a simple analogue. Mr. Tsipras, you remind me of a bomber who just before he left power wants to make sure he's put an explosive device on the ground of the political system. Let's make it clear once and for all. We are the party of responsibility. Conscientious in the dissolution of the country we are not going to be, and I am absolutely certain that this sense of patriotic duty is shared by many other Members in this Chamber. Regardless of our differences - and it may be enough - we will stand up today a wall of responsibility to you. You will not find two hundred votes and you would not find them if the Golden Dawn voted, which you have been scorning until recently. So you will suffer a bad parliamentary defeat. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't make me remind you of what the President of Parliament said about Golden Dawn, because I have them here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u191	Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u192	Do you want, Mr. Mitsotakis, may I answer you later? I shall take the floor in that way. You've taken your step.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u193	I'll read what you said. "In the House there are no welcome and unacceptable votes," you said to "SKAI" two weeks ago. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u194	I'll take the floor later and answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u195	Take him, of course. So to make it clear: The next elections will be held with the existing electoral law and immediately after the elections, in political neutral time, and I hope in a context of reduced political suspicion, we will open up the debate on a new electoral law, which will be a real part of the political system. And there, Mrs. Gennimatas, Mr. Theodorakis, because you asked me what our views are, we will seek to achieve the greatest possible consensus. And we're open to talk about it all. Bold suggestions... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] No, it's just analogous. We've explained it to you, but you don't understand any of what we're talking about. Watch the speaker a little, instead of yelling. We will also look at bold proposals: a mixed system to combine smaller regions with enlarged regions with a list. To discuss the criteria for defining the regions and who will define the constituencies, which is a very important issue. To look at proposals to strengthen the democratic functioning of the parties. Obviously, the self-evident thing is to allow those who live outside Greece to take part in the electoral process and, yes, also to discuss the prospect of a more proportional bonus, but linked to the power of the first party, without making major reductions to governance. Well, let's talk about it all, then. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course the country needs wider consensus. But these consents, you know, Mr. Tsipras, must be a programming character, not heirly coalitions with the sole purpose of precipitation, because your alliance with Mr. Kammenos does not think it is based precisely on a common programming speech. We are therefore going to pursue these consents, when we become a government, from day one. And I am sure that in the next House with a spirit of honesty and understanding, without entering a bazaar and any transaction, there will be a majority in favour of voting for a modern electoral law that is radically confronted with the vulnerabilities of the electoral system. Because you have lost your chance now, Mr. Tsipras. It could have happened now. The law that will be passed today will be recorded in history. It will be the only electoral law that will never be implemented. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because others have said so to you - the mere analogy runs counter to simple logic and goes against the interests of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues relating to the quality of our democracy must be dealt with by the necessary institutional responsibility. And to date the government's earlier life makes us all extremely sceptical about its real intentions. I hope - I really hope - that the opportunism and populism that we have seen today does not extend to the debate on the revision of the Constitution. Because the government majority as a whole shows a suspicion about the institutions of representative democracy. It considers that recourse to the people's mandate in forms of direct democracy, confirms popular sovereignty and always strengthens the quality of our democracy. I heard Mr. Tsipras in his recent interview talking about referendums again. I'd at least think last year's fiasco would have been a lesson to him. But the characteristic of leaders, Mr Tsipras, you know, is not to transfer the responsibility they themselves have on the citizens' backs. This is also the point of representative democracy. We are being voted on by the citizens to make difficult decisions. They judge us after four years and either send us home or reward us and continue our work. Referendums, Mr Tsipras - not always, but on condition - may be polarised and split. They don't promote the compositions, but they exacerbate the division lines. We have seen this with the referendum - parody, which you have organised. Of course, citizens often respond to other questions than we ask them and often use the referendum to disapprove the government or to express their anger. Of course, often governments - you know that well - use referendums for political purposes to escape the deadlocks they have made themselves. So let us also bear in mind this data and not always think that recourse to a referendum is in the interests of the quality of democracy. As a great constitutionalist wrote "The triumph of direct democracy is increasingly evidenced by the triumph of populism". Unfortunately, the same trend for public flattery is also the issue of constitutional reform. Of course, I have a small basket because we have not yet heard your proposals. However, I have tabled a bold proposal to try to find a wider range of revised articles so that the next House can, by a simple majority, form the country's charter. So, in the next elections, ladies and gentlemen, citizens will not only decide which government they want, but also what the content of the review and the parties in their election campaign will specifically propose what they want to change in the Constitution. You seem to have rejected this proposal and identified the debate on matters that are of importance, but have one - I dare say - a communication dimension. For example, the question of the election of the President of the Republic. You know the problem well. It is not so much the way in which the President of the Republic is elected. It is a matter of its responsibilities, but even more so is the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the early dissolution of the House. That's the real problem. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I imagine that this is why you do not want to talk much about it, because you circumvented the spirit of the Constitution, leading the country to early elections in January 2015. However, I am also making an appeal and today we are not going to lose the opportunity of constitutional revision. I really hope that we can give the next House the opportunity for a more radical review, but also the opportunity for the people themselves, the citizens themselves, to decide on the content of this review. It will therefore be the citizens themselves who, with their vote in the next national elections, will define the content of the Charter. I am closing down, ladies and gentlemen, and I apologise for the misuse of time. The government today will have a great parliamentary defeat. Otherwise, the programs will come to you. The simple analogue will not apply to the next elections. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And this, Mr Tsipras, is a good development, as I have told you, not for the New Democracy, but for democracy itself. The country does not need to be merely proportional. The country needs much simpler logic. We must finally become a normal country, to find our confidence as a people, the economy to regain its pace, to reduce taxes, to breathe citizens, to support the average Greek family, to give real hope to the weakest. What the country needs is stability and not insolence, clean programming political agreements, where this is feasible and not opportune, democratic solutions and certainly not the extremes in regulator role. That's what Greece needs. That's what the Greeks want and they'll get them. The New Democracy, the first political force in the country, guarantees that the next day for the country will be better. The dangerous adventure SYRIZA - ANEL is nearing its end and Greece will soon find its way again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Mr Mitsotakis. I will take the floor for two or three minutes, to talk about what you personally said about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u197	You need to get down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u198	I will do what I have to do, Mr Javarra, because it is not a speech. I'm so sorry to have you put it. Do you want me to go down and talk about the simple analogue and make a speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u199	You can speak from there, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u200	If I wanted to speak, I'd have gone down. I know that very well. Don't get too upset. Listen carefully to the answer. I believed, Mr. Chief of Officer Representation, that you would not today adopt, in this topical process, the political misery, which has been limited to members of your prolongation for twenty days... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't mutter, so you can hear it all. So I thought you wouldn't adopt today the political misery, which is central to your prolongation, along with a part of the journalistic co-ordination...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u201	Get down and say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u202	If you want, get down and say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u203	Please, stop, to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u204	Get down and say it. There is a precedent in this Chamber. She was the president then, Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u205	Mr. Javarra, I'll take the floor from here and preside over someone else. We're talking about a personal matter that's been raised. I'll go down and talk underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u206	We want to hear you, but get down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u207	Mr Javarra, I will take the floor and speak from below and preside another President to the end. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u208	Bravo! We'll applaud you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u209	Get down. It's a personal placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u210	Please, be quiet! You're welcome, Mr. Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u211	Well, aren't you a little embarrassed, Mr. Ausgeus? Mr Ausgarian, I take the floor as speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u212	No, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u213	It's an incomprehensible noise now he. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u214	What does the Rules of Procedure say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u215	Mr. Ausgeus, stop because you're being exposed! As President of Parliament, I can take the floor whenever I want 15 minutes, since I have not spoken before. Understood? Shame on you! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You're wrong, which you're about to collect. I have the right as President of Parliament to speak and speak, precisely because there is a matter of political misery. For twenty days, I repeat, the central executives of your resignation, in view of the great embarrassment and nervousness of what comes and what will happen within this House, you have moved incredible things, with great danger to democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, this House has been working with three hundred MPs since 2012 in a peculiar situation, for which it has had to consider several times over the existence of a party, the Golden Dawn, which at the same time one point and then its leadership has been in court, indicted for at least moral participation, as a criminal organisation. We know that very well. Only this year have eight hundred votes in our bills and from the beginning to the end and in article. No question has ever been raised from any point of view of not taking account of the vote of all three hundred Members. You know very much that in a question about whether the Golden Dawn votes are welcome, I answered, as any President of this House should have answered: there are no welcome and unacceptable votes within this House. We haven't spoken to Golden Dawn at any level, neither have the Prime Minister, who spoke to the Chiefs, nor have I spoken to anyone else. We do not know the positions of the Golden Dawn on this issue and therefore we expect all parties to express their views. This is a democratic responsibility. At the same time - and it is within what Mr Mitsotakis has said, which has not read all the statement, which is again half - that what I have answered is in no way an invitation to the Golden Dawn. So, what do you do for twenty days? You moved political misery that we looked forward as a government, as a majority, to co-operation with the Golden Dawn. And of course the debate has come here to show that the Golden Dawn is consistent with the forehead of forces that will vote against the simple analogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u216	Say it, Mr President! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I understand very well, as Mr Kumouchakos has seen, because he too had joined in the same sense. She was propagandad as your representative for twenty days against the democratic majority of this House. And you should be ashamed of yourself politically! I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u217	That is what you said, Mr President, and that is what we were talking about!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u218	You should know, in view of the fact that this House, with an important majority for the first time, will decide the electoral law of simple analogy, in view of this reality, you are reluctant and adopted - I say that I have amazedly listened to you - this political misery, which has started centrally in your party in full cooperation with well-known journalistic "pads" of journalistic atrocities! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It is regrettable that, in talking about institutional issues and democracy, there is a symphony of the most extreme, marginal perceptions, I repeat, few but centralists who maintain political atrocity, in cooperation with journalistic atrocities on these issues. It's dramatic! Things have been written these twenty days, which ought to be disapproved of by this Step and to say that, of course, there is a democratic debate here, we are convinced, we are exchanged, we are compiling, we are confronted from there, and then we are coming out of the results, on the basis of which we are legislating, and we are moving and not saying that this whole plan - my own - was a plan, in cooperation with the Golden Dawn. Look, Mr Mitsotakis - to explain - as individuals in here, one of us and as a wider party we have given these decades of struggles and are giving every day's struggles, at a cost, at every level with fascism and its representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u219	Well done, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u220	And the fact that they have no more power is due to our struggles and not to your agenda, which brought them in here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u221	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u222	But listen to it: You've made a mistake, a big mistake! It must be taught that with fascism, with its extremes, with all this tradition and history, not just has nothing to do with the Left, but never has been traded and never had such a horizon. This is something you should know about here, but also about the whole of Europe. Your perceptions create racist, xenophobic, homophobic, far-right perceptions in all countries. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I challenge you for two things - and I'm finishing with it - and I challenge you to answer, because you are a person of dialogue and I know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u223	You're President of the House! This is unacceptable! It's a disgrace! You're humiliating!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u224	It's unprecedented! That is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u225	You're morally down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u226	Is that your democracy? Don't you even stand dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u227	Quiet! First of all, if you think that you have any arguments, you should put forward a motion of censure against the President of this House now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u228	Calm down, that doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u229	Secondly, I absolutely challenge you to condemn all this account you have set up, because the outcome of the debate itself here has shown what powers are consistent with what powers against the decision to simply act proportionately!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u230	Calm down, please! Why that tension? Wait. Calm down. Mr. Mitsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u231	I would expect you, Mr President of Parliament, to serve your position with more cooling and less emotional tension, let alone when what you said confirmed what I said. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I ask you, too, and the Prime Minister: If you had raised two hundred votes, with the votes of the Golden Dawn, would the law apply, yes or no? That's the question. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And when Mr. Kourublis and the various "pads" of Maximus broke out numerical calculations, which said that "we are in the hundreds of ninety-seven" did they mean or did they not mean that the Golden Dawn would vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u232	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u233	You need to be polite. You ask me about the value of voting. I would like to remind you of something, Mr President, because, when we talk about increased majorities - there is no point in saying - every vote counts. Let me remind you what Mr Stavros Dimas said when he was looking for a hundred and eighty votes. He said openly that he does not care to be elected President by the votes of the Golden Dawn. Why didn't you say the same thing and you gave this hypocrisy show and allegedly sensitive? [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] Let me tell you one last thing: I respect and honor the left-wing struggles against fascism and dictatorship. You weren't the only ones who fought. I was a political prisoner six months from the junta and lived the first... [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Why are you laughing, gentlemen? Why are you laughing, gentlemen? Why are you laughing? And I spent the first six years of my life in exile.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u234	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u235	Lessons of democratic sensitivity the party of Constantine Karamanlis, who brought democracy, does not accept!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u236	Please calm down! It doesn't make any sense - I don't understand - at least. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u237	Mr Mitsotakis, during your speech, you committed yourself to a blow, and you did not have the equilibrium to get back what you said, but you only strengthened the same slandering attitude, saying that the President of the Parliament in his reply actually strengthened your argument. But I would like to point out something. I am not going to talk about the struggles, of history, and of course I am not going to mention the fact that we are all aware of, what you yourself call 'ethical advantage', which you say we are losing. But I'll remind you of something. In the previous critical election, in the previous crucial vote in the House on the President of the Republic, Mr Dimas, you referred to the statement himself. But you didn't tell us about the fact that two extreme right-wing ex-girlfriends...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u238	Please, gentlemen, I'm going to take other measures. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u239	That's your level. You don't want to hear, you want to interfere and yell out. I will, however, conclude what I wanted to say to remember the Greek people as well. Two Members of the Golden Dawn, who were, of course, deleted from the Golden Dawn at the time, voted in favour of Mr Dimas. I want to remind you one more thing. The party of the SYRIZA had neither "Baltakus" nor "Baltakus", who secretly interact with the Golden Dawn in order to hold on to power! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And when we brought to the public debate a consistent demand from the Left and the democratic progressive forces and opened the public debate on the change of electoral law, we never thought and never addressed the Golden Dawn. In particular, we appealed to those forces who have been defending the view that we should go to a proportional electoral system over the past few years. We talked together. Of course, I knew you had a different view. However, this has not prevented us from discussing the possibility of even seeking some compositions. And a week ago, I referred to this newspaper, and I said that we were never addressing or interested in addressing the party of the extreme right and of the neonazis to change the electoral law. Indeed, in the committees of the House, the Minister responsible, the Minister of the Interior, had mentioned the fact that we are not interested in one by one, but we are addressing the leaders of the parties, precisely because we have the great historical memory of the distances, which you are probably also aware of, Mr Mitsotakis and you and the New Democracy. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Nor were we thinking of addressing one - one personally - to members of the parties who have a history and have obviously raised the request for simple proportional, as persons or as MPs or as members of parties in the past very strongly. We have addressed the leaderships of the parties, because we believe that this large part of the country's political system can only proceed through an honest and open political consultation. For this very reason, the proposal that we tabled in public debate in this House today is a proposal that we considered is about the common denominator of the positions they had put forward in the public debate, but also at private meetings of these parties, except of course of the New Democracy, which had expressed its opposition to the change of electoral law and of course to the draft simply proportional. So it was an unfortunate moment for you to report. However, the President of Parliament was rightly forced to speak and to speak, because if this were just an unfortunate report, it would obviously not cause his anger and many other Members in this Chamber and citizens. It was, however, a well-processed and well-prepared effort of the interlocutory, which the President of the Parliament called before "democratic aberration", to create the climate that the Left was supposedly seeking to find partners in the area of Golden Dawn. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that this unfortunate moment will not affect today's procedure, because today is a day of importance for the Greek Parliament. For the first time, under the responsibility of the government majority, a law is tabled, which is beyond the logic of purposes, which the current government majority expects. The current government majority is tabling a law that deprives it of the right and the prospect of operating, once again - as in previous elections, as it is a government majority and won - in the logic of the lost vote. And it deposites a law based on the logic of the vote. And, of course, it is historic and for one more reason. Because, as you well know, ladies and gentlemen, the request for the equalisation of votes and for the simple analogues has been a permanent and timely demand, not only on the left, but also on the wider progressive and democratic powers for decades in this place. And today, for the first time, the government majority brings the simple analogue and for the first time, the simple analogue will be voted in favour of the majority of the Greek Parliament and will become the law of the Greek state. I feel that today, with this effort, we are responding to a historic demand, which is, of course, a constant one, as I said before, vindicating left democratic progressive forces and vindicating the struggles for genuine equality and democracy for decades. You started your speech by saying that we are celebrating these forty-two years of democracy. And I believe that, in fact, we are honouring the struggles of our people for people's sovereignty and democracy, doing an act of flagrant demand for democracy and people's sovereignty, of analogy and equality of vote, and at the same time giving the vote of confidence to young people, our youth, by giving the incentive to young people and young people, by voting in seventeen, not to give in to deculturalisation, to participate actively in political developments and to influence them, to come out, by taking their lives in their hands. However, our proposal for simple analogues does not simply respond to a historic demand for deepening democracy. It also meets the modern demand of the social majority for the rationalisation and renewal of our political system. It is no coincidence that, in all the qualitative surveys that have seen the light of publicity in recent years, the large majority of the public opinion has voted in favour of the same vote, it is in favour of simple proportionalness, and even those of the citizens who have said that they have voted or have declared that they will vote for the New Democracy. Isn't that what he says something to you? Therefore, the proposal for a law that we are going to vote today is a politically mature reform, which is part of our overall plan for the democratic transformation of our political system, for the institutional and democratic reconstruction of the state, by strengthening the institutions of representative democracy, but also the introduction of new institutions of direct democracy in the functioning of the political system. I have listened with great surprise to you to identify direct democracy with populism, and that is precisely the fear of the people, the fear of the people, which has a conservative perception, which you are expressing. Here are your proposals for constitutional reform, fear of the people's crisis. No one says that the people's crisis is always infallible, but there is no one, yet no more effective system has been invented than democracy and never, but there has never been - historically at least - the feeling that with less democracy we could get out of problems and deadlocks. The restoration of the equality of citizens' vote, but also the restoration of legitimacy and transparency, are our priority objectives, our priorities. That is why these days, despite the fact that we are in the middle of the summer, the House is keeping open, legislating and going ahead with important initiatives, not only the proposal on simple analogues but, despite the stumbling-ups, the reactions of the establishment, economic and political, these days are moving a top government initiative on legality in the broadcasting landscape, in order to restore legitimacy with the licensing, which will be done, despite your reactions. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Perhaps a part of your extreme behavior, which leads to unfortunate incidents, such as the previous one, is due to this great nervousness, which these days show those circles, which for over twenty-five years have dominated the place and today, in their nervousness, are surely pushing you. You are being pushed from the first moment to ask for elections, to go out, asking for the government to fall, to provoke and strengthen, to urge protest movements you, a party traditionally to be an ideological and political opposition - you have never been a protest party and have become a protest party in favour of these gentlemen, who will lose their names and their ability to transmit television signals, without permission and, of course, by crushing and restoring again, by holding poisonous headlines, daily and Sundays. We are therefore attempting to take steps towards a deep democratic reform in the country, an intersection that we believe will free Greek society from corruption, the complexity and the dependence of the political system on the interests of the economic oligarchy and the steps that other governments have attempted, but they have never brought it to the end. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what? The crisis we are experiencing is not just economic. Obviously its dominant dimension is economic and social. However, I would say that it is primarily a crisis of the political system, which has devoured a state-run, wasteful, and complex economic oligarchy, established political corruption and customer networking as a means of reproducing it, familiarized citizens with scandals and scandals, shaped a class, opaque and unequivocal to the social needs of public administration. The political system, particularly during the period of crisis, but also before, has been self-evident, both by the crisis of credibility and confidence in policy, which has caused it, but also by the economic crisis in which it has been working. We have now reached the point where no sustainable exits from the crisis will be achieved without the democratic reform of the political system. There can be no productive reconstruction, first of all there can be political and social reconstruction. There can be no exit to the future under the absolute and complete domination of the old regime. That is why the government's political initiative today on the simple analogue and democratic reform of the political system is a leading break with the past and, I would say, the historical development of the political system, but also the historical development of the place. That is why all the forces of the old state, economic and political, were only alarmed at the idea that this permanent democratic position on the electoral system will not only be the law of the state, but that it could also be the law of the state with immediate effect from the upcoming election. They were only terrified of the idea that this could happen. They have acted together and coordinated to prevent this prospect and to guide, force political parties, which have been firmly in favour of this proposal - and have tabled it in Parliament itself - to deny it today. Do you know why they were terrified of this idea? Because they know very well that with the simple analogue background the past cannot have a future in the place. Of course, you said somewhere in your speech that the law that is being passed today - I want to believe by a large majority - will never become a state law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u240	It won't apply, he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u241	Yeah, it's never gonna apply, he said. So where do you support this appreciation, Mr. Mitsotakis? You support this assessment, and indeed you have gone to Stepma as soon as the President of the PASOK came down, who told you, if I am not mistaken, in this ambiguity which he has held in recent times, that he will not vote now - he will vote alone - but will not vote after it has been abolished. So how do you prejudge that you will find two hundred votes in the next House to abolish it? Will you work with Golden Dawn to achieve it? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise - Protests from the New Democracy Wing]] We are therefore determined, ladies and gentlemen, to build a future free from the burdens of the past. We are determined to implement our commitment to last September's elections, which was the commitment to end with the past. We are determined to leave - and we will leave - our own footprint in the development of this place. We were here coming from very far away, and our aim is not simply to manage better, as the Greek people see every day in this crisis, but our aim is to leave a deep reform footprint, which will obviously be on the opposite side of the reforms that you have recommended. For you have accused us of this step forward that we, in a year and a half now, did not implement the reform, which concerns the vote of the relatives. You, Mr. Mitsotakis, why didn't you ever implement it? For the last 15 years, the Constitution has provided you with this opportunity. You were Minister of Administrative Reform. Why didn't you bring it? Why? You did not bring it, because, Mr Mitsotakis, despite the fact that you are characterizing yourself as a reformer, the only reforms that you know how to do well are to fire civil servants, cut pensions, cut wages, give gifts to strand and open roads to tax evasion. These are your reforms. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We therefore want to leave a strong reform footprint. And that is what we will do next: State reform, the political system, the institutions. And the electoral system is one of the joints of the governance system, as is the Constitution. The Constitution is the basic institutional framework, which defines the political system. Eight years after the third revision of the Constitution in the post-government period, the conditions have now matured for a new revision, essential, for a revision that will go hand in hand with our decision to move forward in major areas for the democratic regeneration of our country, a revision that we have a goal and we want to guarantee the democratic and social rights of citizens, to protect public goods, to introduce institutions to strengthen democratic participation, to strengthen Parliament, to restore the confidence of citizens with policy, which has been taking place, and, of course, to guarantee the equality of vote as a principle, so as to prevent any legislator in the future from creating monstrous laws. Not to define which electoral law, but as the principle of equality of vote. And this, as you well know, does not require two hundred MPs, but a hundred eighty and a hundred fifty or a hundred fifty and eighty. Since we are talking about numbers, I would also like to refer to something that we have discussed in private and you have reiterated here as well. You are tabling the proposal that the government majority should agree to open articles, which do not agree that they should change and open any possible articles, which you do not agree should be changed, so that the forthcoming election campaign will have a referendum on the constitutional review. I asked you personally, but I repeat this question today: do you think it is fair, so how much more so when this election campaign is of a critical referendum for the country's Constitution, it is judged and designated by a bonus of 50 seats in the first party? So we directly tell you that if you really want to open up and open up articles with which we do not agree, a condition for this to be done is for the next election to be held in proportion to the simple, without any extra bonus of the fifty seats. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We are therefore aware of the difficulties of the situation. And that is why we are fighting our battle every day and continue with small and large battles on all fronts to ensure social cohesion, the blow of interacting, corruption and tax evasion. We have recently moved on to a series of legislation to combat the smuggling of fuel and tobacco, on transparency in public works. We have accelerated the investigation of the "sea-sea-saves" to the canalarchs and political parties of bi-partyism, which ruled on the basis of the enhanced analogy in all previous years, the PASOK and the New Democracy. We know, however, that the mandate given to us by the Greek people in September 2015 is not a one-dimensional one, it is not just a mandate of strong and persistent negotiation to improve the agreement to protect rights. The people have also given us a mandate for major changes, global and radical changes, and this order of breakage with the old regime will be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis has accused us of opportunism, he told us that we are opportunists who bring to Parliament a constant request for decades of left. Why are we opportunists? Why didn't we bring it, when the country was at the forefront of a difficult and persistent negotiation, or did we not bring it before the first assessment, the difficult first assessment, the most difficult one, when it would have been a democratic one - the opposition did not even have elected leadership - and we are now bringing it three years before the next elections? And he even reverted to the past. He told us that the analogy always brings lawlessness. And, of course, he referred to the rest of Europe by referring to Italy, but he forgot to say that almost most of the other European countries, whether members of the Eurozone or not, there is for many years the equivalence of vote and cooperative governments and a culture of cooperation, which in Greece we learned after the fragmentation of the political system with the memoranda, since 2012, a culture of cooperation which, of course, wants and not, by making the need for politeness, committed the two parties that ruled with the logic of the bipartisan router in the 1980s and 1990s, in 2012. And now there is also, despite the fifty bonus seats, the need for cooperation and a culture of partnership. So what are we talking about? We say we need to realize that a large political cycle is closed and the sooner we realize it, the better for the place. A large political cycle, which began immediately after the "74" with the emergence of the PASOK as the main pole at the time of the Central Left, which had the elements of the two-partyism we knew, sometimes very large polarization, even with the "green" and "blue" cafés, with two powerful parties that had together, 40% and the left, which was in 10%, as a third small pole. Of course, your prolongation at that time, if necessary, based on the logic of its own interests, of its political interest, was to deny simple proportionalness, given that it would create a culture of cooperation and planning convergences, which would lead to governments of one of the two poles with the Left. You must realize and we must all realize that we are at a new age, at another time both in Europe and in Greece. Parts of 40% do not exist today. And, of course, you can have the right to either arrogance or a claim that you may claim it, Mr Mitsotakis. You can do that, of course. Besides, you have a great pleasure because they came out, he says, some polls that show you first. I will not go into the fact that these are the same polls that last year gave the "NEI" in front and went out with twenty-four points back, which in January 2015 showed the New Democracy in front and lost with 7.5 points and that in September they gave a derby and lost seven points. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would refer to the fact that none of these polls, but none of them, gives you a chance to exceed the percentages that you brought in last September and January 2015, 30%. But you have the hope to think that we can return to a logic of bi-partisanism, of old bi-partisanism. Hello, hello, hello! But what made me very much impression is that you are coming today to talk to us about opportunism, when you are the ones who have changed their minds and positions many times. And I'll explain. Because we had a permanent position of mere analogy. Let me read something to you, which I choose among many, from time to time, to defend the idea of the vote and the need for a simple proportional electoral system. "The need for explicit introduction of a form of proportional representation, given the fact that our parliamentary experience has so far demonstrated that the analogue system is more in line with the need to extend the democratic legitimacy of the Parliament, and hence the government, which is based on the confidence of the Parliament." So, as the parliamentary experience has shown us, a similar system. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the proposal for a law that has been tabled last year by PASOK and is not voting on it today. It is the proposal put forward by the New Democracy for the Constitutional Review in 2014 in this House and signed by Mr.Mitsotakis, Mrs. Bakoyannis, Mrs. Kefaliannis, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, Mr.Georgiadis, Mr. Voridis, Mr. Athanasios. It was your view of the 2014 constitutional review. And because it's not the only denial, compared to what you can admit in dead time and say to what you're doing, I want to show you something more. You have done a great deal against the logic of voting at seventeen, even saying that it is an attempt that is opportune on the part of SYRIZA to succumb to young people. I would like to present to the Minutes the position of Mrs Bakoyannis on 21-5-2009, which, together with Mr Scandalidis, then and Mr McKinnite, had adopted the view of voting at the age of 16, ladies and gentlemen, not at seventeen, saying that directly I will tell you that it is a positive development, because the new generation must come to the fore. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Of course, I would remind you that it was also a proposal which was proposed and voted for a New Democracy member, a candidate, Mr Kyranakis, President of the Youth of the European People's Party, for a vote at sixteen. In Europe you are dating and making the progressives. This is where you are, you preservatives! You can't fit any other viewpoint here! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So you are talking about political amoracism, because we are bringing to the House three years before the next election campaign, a constant demand from the left and democratic progressive forces, when, of course, you have said many different things at times. Ladies and gentlemen, our view is that the sooner we realise that a significant cycle has been closed, post-political, and we are in a new era, the sooner we could shape the conditions, so that we can move from a barren dualisation of the past, which is not responsible for everything, but is responsible for much, a fertile diploma, with cooperation governments. The change in electoral law, therefore, is not a distraction from the juncture, as you say - distraction movements do not make us, distraction moves do you and many, Mr Mitsotakis - but it reflects precisely our awareness that we must go to a new era and help the political system and the parties and the political forces to think in other terms. For, Mr Mitsotakis, I understand your great desire to become Prime Minister, but you cannot become a Prime Minister because you were loved by the publishers, the bankrupt, nor by the fact that they loved you, Mr Theodorakis and Mrs Gennimatas. Only if the people love you will become Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, but the Greek people have memory and know what interests you serve! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would like at this point to refer to some facts which are of particular importance to me, because in the last few years you have almost fallen in a heroic fight in favour of trying not to proceed with the competition for broadcasting licences. You have exploited any institutional capacity to delay this competition, with your pretext to refuse to consent to the National Broadcasting Council, you have undermined its establishment and operation, and so you have deprived the Independent Authority of the opportunity to conduct the tender for licences. And when, after three months of our barren efforts for consensus, we legislated that the competition should be held by the General Secretariat of Information, then you adopted the request for new elections. Let's get out of here so they can get out of here. But be sure, Mr Mitsotakis, that neither we nor will escape! We will be here by 2019 and after 2019, with the vote of the Greek people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would like at this point to explain something to us. What exactly is it you said, after your meeting with the judicial and prosecutor associations, three days ago, I think? That the New Democracy will not tolerate games with justice and that no one has the right to interfere in justice. What exactly are you talking about? Are you referring to the applications submitted by the Minister of Justice to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay in order to speed up the trial of the two cases of the "SIEMENS" in the '97 OTE digitisation and for the "black funds" that the two parties, PASOK and the New Democracy, for decades? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Is it, perhaps, an intervention in justice invoking the Code of Criminal Procedure for cases of an exceptional nature? Obviously it is preferable for you to postpone the adjournment of the 'SIEMENS' trial indefinitely, so you have speeded up your position and characterize intervention in justice as an all-legal and reasonable request for it to be accelerated. But if you are concerned, you are doing well and you are concerned, because the SIEMENS trial will be done. It will continue and be completed and there will be a court ruling. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Because our government's only intervention in justice is to constantly point out its independence, its complete autonomy, from the overriding interests that besieged her! And one last question. Mr. Chief of Staff, have you been able to remove Mr. Slavonis from the position of the person responsible for the development and the writing of your government's development programme? If you didn't have a chance, tell us why? After Mr. Papastaurou, another close partner has theknow how of tax evasion, the know-how of tax evasion and is controlled on an issue that the “FINANCIAL TIMES” newspaper devotes almost half of the page and the need at last to have justice in this country, the fact that the great majority of the Greek people, with your own choices, were on the front line of battle, when some others made the money through your know-how abroad. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I would like at this point to be allowed a little mention of the Centre's parties. I won't be long. You know, what happens with PASOK and the river is something that I find difficult to understand. Of course, I hear you today and I think that for you it must be a difficult day. It's a very difficult day. You know, not everyone who has decided to go along with you and possibly get into your ballots too. There are some others who haven't made these decisions, so it's a very difficult day for them, believe me. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] What I cannot understand, and it seems to me to be a oxymobile, is the fact that you refuse. You may have your reasons, blame the government, SYRIZA for its intentions, what are the thoughts on the back of our minds. All that can be said. What you cannot justify is that at a historic time, when the first time a government majority brings a request for a simple analogue, which primarily favours the small parties and especially the parties of the centre to play a regulatory role, a heavy role in the political system...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u242	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u243	Mr. Javarra, you have exceeded every limit today. Everybody, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u244	So I cannot understand, ladies and gentlemen, why these parties are refusing, but of course Mr Leventis's Central Association, which you have remembered today. The last time you praised him, especially when he was against our proposal for the competition. Then he was a leading political player. Today he has taken a stand according to the logic that he, as his party defines, a small party of the Centre, is in the interest of keeping it, and you are passing on to him. In any case, I cannot understand, I do not understand why you refuse to accept a political gift, to play an important role in the political scene of the country. Do you perhaps prefer the role of complementing Mr. Mitsotakis' Right, as you preferred and the role of supplementing Mr. Samaras' government with Mr. Vorides, Mr. Georgiadis, all these ideological relatives? No, of course not. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You are indeed committing a historic blow. Some of them characterized...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u245	Gentlemen, please. Okay? There's a limit. Don't get over it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u246	Are you here, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u247	I'm here. Mr. Tasouula, you iron them elsewhere. Go on, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u248	If you'll excuse me, I'll continue, Mr. Tasoula. Thank you very much. Some described this atom similar to the historical error of the Left of 1989. I will not agree with them for this reason: in 1989, of course, the Left made the historic mistake - and paid it - to cooperate with Mr Mitsotakis. However, the proposal put forward on the left in 1989 to vote on the simple analogy was a proposal which, if it adopted it, would lead directly to the closure of the House and would therefore require the great moral responsibility for not having any investigation into possible offences, which at the time had a large majority of public opinion, which had no right to be charged as a liability. You now, without any excuse, deny a gift of historical character to you and you are identified with Mr. Mitsotakis' Right. Refugee your own proposals and, of course, deny yourself. In fact, though, by refusing to receive this gift you turn it back on us. You make us a very big gift. Revealing to the Greek people, you also give us the moral superiority that we have said and implemented, brought and implemented, we will vote for the simple analogue and the possibility that the Greek people in 2019 will give us the majority and put you the old political system, “at the time of history,” to remember another historical phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u249	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u250	What do you want, Mrs. Gennamas? What are the protests, please? You want to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u251	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u252	Do you have any staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u253	Of course, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u254	You don't sound. Open your microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u255	I've got it on my microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u256	Let it be a little quiet to hear your request.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u257	Madam President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u258	What personal? Political criticism has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u259	What else must be said to be personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u260	SYRIZA should have been asking the floor all night. From morning to night SYRIZA had to ask for the floor on staff. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u261	Are you President of Parliament or are you in party...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u262	Come on, talk now and leave those.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u263	Please very much, I have asked for the floor. So much has been said about my party and about me personally and I am asking for the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u264	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u265	Prime Minister, the bonus is kept by you. You have a full responsibility, because you have not even tried to seek a wider understanding to make serious changes to the political system. And I wonder, when you did not support the changes to the electoral system at one time last year, on the grounds you said today, that the country was on the edge of the cliff and had to conclude the negotiations, then why did you choose to lead the country to elections? I'll tell you why you did it. Because then, that's how it was. To clear your Party from your until yesterday your associates and escorts and rule again with the Independent Greeks. Let me tell you, the Prime Minister who has become a bonus Prime Minister twice cannot come here today and become an honorer! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We are not a party of the Centre or a party of the Centre, nor do we have ambiguity. We are a Central Left party, with long history and tradition, changes, cuts and ruptures in this place. But what kind of left are you, who rule with the Independent Greeks, the far right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u266	No, Mrs. Gennamas!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u267	Or who's trying to get together with Mr. Leventis today? Are you talking about those who move to the ballots? You're the one who took the Arabs and the Careers. So when you return to our Party again, be much more careful, Prime Minister, because you have no credibility and no prestige. Every time we meet you, we wonder what kind of leaks you're going to make. Because there is no scope for consultation and cooperation with you. Do you want me to tell you something? You have never been interested in mere analogues, either in national understanding or in progressive alliances. And you proved this, because twice you chose to have a right-wing party and not seek to make any progressive agreement today in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u268	Quiet, please. Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u269	Madame Gennamas, that was political, it wasn't personal. You know, Mrs. Gennimata, in the political career of leaders, there are not many times the chances to prove their leadership and leadership skills. Today, you missed such a chance. You are a pig, not just Mr Mitsotakis, but also a hostage of political aspirations, which may go beyond you. You're losing a chance. It is a pity, however, when you lose this opportunity to try to defend these choices with insults. I won't respond to the same look. I'll just say, that's too bad!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u270	Madam President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u271	Madam President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u272	Gentlemen, it's 12 o'clock. Please. As long as the time goes, it will all be "personal" here. What can we do? It can't be done. I'm appealing to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u273	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u274	Madam President, there is no case at all. He caused us...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u275	I appeal to you to proceed to the vote. What do you want, Mrs. Gennamas? Answer the pity? What do you want now? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u276	Madam President, I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u277	What personal? Mr. Cammene, please. Let's finish the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u278	Repeat, Mrs. Gennamas once again, on the right hand. Listen. It's not quite a socialist, it's you. On September 3, PASOK had its simple analogue as its main position. Keep an eye on your words. And as much as you want to be the leader of a party that collapses, stop turning back and looking at Mr. Venizelos. You are the applause of Mr. Voridis and of the right-wing eavesdropping that the New Democracy incarnationd with Mr. Samaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u279	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u280	Mrs. Gennamas, this dialogue doesn't make any sense. You understand that. Now tell who you want. What is "personnel"? Since the last reason he'll always have him. We can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u281	Mr. Cammane,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u282	I'm not giving you the floor, Mrs. Gennamas. I'm not giving you the floor. You don't sound. You can't have the last word. We can't go by morning. Do you understand that? Well, what do we do? It's not happening now. We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u283	But, Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u284	Mrs. Gennamas, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u285	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u286	Help the process a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u287	I'll help the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u288	It doesn't make any sense to what you're doing. You want me to prove it to you? Here you go. Talk for a minute, to understand that it doesn't make any sense. Talk for a minute, let's hear you guys out. Well, well, well, well,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u289	Mr. Cammene, the same party as Mr. Voridis was you. I've never been. As for the Prime Minister, I am really sorry, because this is how a debate is going to become so serious in Parliament. I'm really sorry. The arrogance has both limits and it will be good once to learn and lose.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u290	Okay, good. Awesome. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Quiet now! Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset, on the articles and on the amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior and the Administrative Reconstruction: 'Representation of political parties, extension of the right to elect Members' and their vote will be taken separately. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u291	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u292	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u293	Golden Dawn is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u294	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u295	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u296	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u297	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u298	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u299	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u300	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "Reasonable representation of political parties, extension of the right to elect and other provisions on the election of MPs" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on the articles. A roll-call vote will be held on Articles 1 to 4 of the draft law, in accordance with Rule 72(1)(c) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and Article 5, which is the fare, due to the qualified majority required by Article 54(1) of the Constitution. Adjourn the sitting for 10 (10) minutes under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u301	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. [[CHANGES SEL]] [[TAKE SEL 264-265]] [[Let SEL 267 come in.]] There will be a roll-call vote on Articles 1 to 5 of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. The acceptances of the articles say 'THE'. The non-accepting articles say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. They are called on the list: Mrs Anastasia Gara by SYRIZA and Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known on the principle and on the articles of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u302	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u303	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a letter from Mr Antonis Samaras, who knows that he is absent from the vote and that if he were present, he would vote 'OR'. This letter, which expresses the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but is not counted on the counting of votes and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u305	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 281 Members voted. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In the interests of the Rule, namely 'NAH', 180 Members voted. Under Rule, 'Notice', 81 Members voted. 'PARON' were voted 20 MPs. Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 179 Members voted. Under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, 83 Members voted against. 'PARON' were voted 19 MPs. Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 3: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 163 MPs. Under Rule, 'Notice', they voted 101 Members. 17 MPs voted. Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 179 Members voted. Against the article 'Notice', 86 Members voted. 'PARON' were voted 16 MPs. Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 179 Members voted. Against the article 'Notice', 86 Members voted. 'PARON' were voted 16 MPs. Article 5 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u306	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "Reasonable representation of political parties, extension of the right to elect and other provisions on the election of MPs" was accepted in principle and on articles. We shall now proceed to the vote on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u307	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u308	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u309	Golden Dawn is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u310	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u312	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u313	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u314	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u315	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "Reasonable representation of political parties, extension of the right to elect and other provisions concerning the election of MPs" was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, the articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u316	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u317	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-21-S2-commons.u318	With the agreement of the House at 1.20', the sitting is closed for Friday, July 22, 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, only debate and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law: "The harmonisation of legislation by Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on the establishment of a single European railway area (OJ L343/32 of 14.12.2012) and other provisions" in accordance with the agenda distributed.
