ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House the update on Thursday 30 June 2016: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1044,27-2016 by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of Health on the professional and work upgrade of the ‘assisted nurses’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 1037/24-6 2016 by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the financing of the project of the road axis "Heraklio - Mesara". 3. The question by No. 1039/24-6-2016 of MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding the need to change family law. 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning measures to be taken to reduce the damage to olive oil production in areas of Crete due to problematic olive-growing. 5. The question under number 104/24-2016 of the Greek Independent MEP Georgios Lazarides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the examination of a certificate of successful examination of Energy Inspectors. 6. Under number 1036/22-6-2016, a topical question by MP B' Athens of the Union of Centres Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the urgent need for a Ministerial Decision setting out the conditions and procedures for exemption from excise duty for products intended for the production of vinegar. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 1038/24-6-2016, a topical question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the construction of the road axis Florina - Ptolemais. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the advance announcement of tragic developments in the field of electricity production. 3. The question under number 1047-27-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning measures for the education of refugees. 4. Under number 1042-24-2016, a topical question by MP II Athens of Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the Greek government's extrajudicial compromise with SIEMENS. 5. Under No 989/13-6-2016, a topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Ekaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the harmonisation of the procedures for the repayment of third-party loans to private sector families with the third families of the public sector. 6. Under number 990/13-2016, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the New Republic, Eleftherios Ausgenakis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of agricultural subsidies. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Mr Ilias Panagiotarous (Minister of Foreign Affairs) was asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on "the ongoing Albanian challenges". 8. Under number 946/3-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about "the financing of Turkey through the Consulate of Komotini, for the purchase of property of deported Greeks in Thrace". 9. The Question No 914/27-5-2016 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the "creating of illegal kindergartens and boarding schools in Xanthi". 10. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, Question No 545/15-2-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKAB. 11. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health regarding patients who operate at their own expense at the University Hospital of Thessaloniki "ACHEP". 12. The question by No 961/7-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Athanasios Vardalis, to the Finance and National Defence Ministers, about the Greek Vehicle Industry "ELVO ABE". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The question asked by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health about the situation in the State General Nice. 14. Observed. Under number 935/31-5-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health about the shortcomings and problems of the fleet of the EKAB. 15. Under number 825/254-2016, a topical question by Piraeus II of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health regarding the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital "METAXA". 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The question by No 1008/15-6-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the annulment of the provisions abolishing the EASA and bringing about losses on the income of thousands of pensioners. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 4375/304/31-3-2016 - application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Finance, on the financial size of the contract with Kim Glen. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 3062/10-2-2016 question by the Independent MEP Mr Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance about the compensation of the Partners of Cooperative Banks. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you in particular of those colleagues who have a timely question tomorrow - keep it, of course, subject to this - that, due to the change of the programme with the urgent debate on 'COSCO', they may be postponed. By noon, we will have been fully informed and so will you be aware of whether or not there will be parliamentary scrutiny tomorrow. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Articles 19, 20, 29, 30, 33, 35, 40 to 46 of Directive 2013/34/EU on ‘the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related business reports of certain types, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC’ (EU. L 189 of 29 June 2013) and Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU. L 330/1 of 15 November 2014) ‘amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards the disclosure of non-financial information and information on the diversity of certain large enterprises and groups’ and other provisions of the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism’. As far as I have been informed yesterday, it has been agreed that there have been two colleagues left to speak as protagonists, including two parliamentary representatives, who spoke yesterday - Mrs Kafantaris, who has now been replaced by Mr Stavros Arachovitis and Mr Nikolaos Dendias - to speak with all the other parliamentary representatives. The Parliamentary spokesman of the Central Association, Mr Karras, has asked yesterday to take the first floor, because he has to go to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, and then to those parliamentary representatives who are here will take the floor. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that this is a difficult day. It is not difficult because of the legislation we are discussing, but it is difficult because of a wider system which affects our country. Last night, while the topical issue was Brexit, which we were all discussing, and the course of the European Union. There was a powerful, barbaric terrorist attack at the airport of 'ATATTURK' in Constantinople. I think most of us have visited it. Most of us know that. It was really a barbaric attack, which is now at the door of our country. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not because I believe that Greece is currently being threatened by terrorist acts. But barbarism and the tension that has been experienced in this attack also creates a wider sense of fear and insecurity. In view of the fact that the problems of the Middle East have not been dealt with and the issue of migration flows - at least quite effectively - because of the ambiguity which exists in the policies of the neighbouring country, I fear that the Greeks too should step up our thoughts and our efforts to see how to deal with this. Of course, there is no doubt that we are supporting not only the victims and their families, but - at least mentally - also the entire Turkish people, who have been struggling with terrorist attacks lately. Let us hope that they do not exist in the future. Yesterday, of course, there was another bad time for our country. We had the well-known issue of a large retail chain, which has not only an impact on the banks, if something happens that will shake its situation, but also has a very serious impact on a large number of workers who have already entered in a few months' insecurity regime. In addition, it has a multiplier impact on small suppliers. Because we all know that the large chains have small and large suppliers of their products. And usually it is small suppliers who make the so-called private labels. From a rough information, which I have managed to get, there are hundreds of millions of small suppliers in small industries and craft industries. If this is the case, then, and there is no regulation on this issue, as the chain at least calls for - the chain calls for protection from creditors for a period of time to submit a business plan, if something goes wrong or the wider economy in the country cannot help - then we will have problems, which we hope will not be as tragic as we fear. So let's go to the bill to see exactly what we can do, and we can contribute, or comment or even criticize, on behalf of our party, the Centro Association. The draft law, therefore, on the first eight articles, is an addition, by reason of a directive, of the law on public limited liability companies. Not much can be said, but nothing really. It concerns the financial and financial statements, which each public limited company must keep, in order to have the principles of transparency, as the European Union calls for. I think it's right. We will therefore vote for the first eight and for an additional reason. To give the dimension of transparency. To show that even if the Greek companies are swaying in crisis, we often do not know what will be the fate of many, very serious and small Greek companies, at least, the Greek state wants to respect the principles of transparency. Besides, the bill itself concerns me personally, as well as my colleagues in the party, because I cannot imagine that it is a permanent bill that is going to be problematic. If we start, then, seeing its capital after Article 8, we find that they are pieces, that are funds, which are referred to in the arrangements of the Secretariat-General of ministries and other departments' powers. The conclusion, if you read the bill with a little attention, is that it only says that this provision has been extended for six months or that the other provision has been extended for one year. Forgive me, but it's a mess. If we want to reach a serious legal settlement, which can be confronted with problems, whether small or large, we cannot say that we have been prolonging for six months or for a year to study the arrangements that we are going to make. The government must stop this violin because it has not helped. I give one example: Law 4281 was passed by the public procurement authorities, which was at least a detailed law. It has not been implemented, so that I can tell you my opinion and make my criticism of whether this law was good or bad. I admit I'm not in a position to do it. But I see that today an amendment is coming to suspend for once the main body of this law. Maybe then we should ban him. And why is he inhibiting him? It tells us that the new regulation, which will come to be discussed and voted on in the House, is being studied. If, therefore, there is any intention of a new regulation coming directly to the House to be voted on. If, however, there is an intention by way of a suspension introduced into a critical public procurement issue, I must remind you that when we talk about public procurement, we are talking about works contracts, supplies, services, we are also talking about the operation of public procurement as such. The Greek State is based, to a significant extent, on third party benefits, whether in the form of goods or works or services. So, if we're talking about this, is there anything else behind it? Is the application of earlier legislation hiding some room for manoeuvre? I do not want to go any further, because we may have to comment on how public service services are provided, and there may have to be much to say, but it is not in this legislation. I can see something else about the NRW. So Article 14 is coming - which I do not know if it can help, in a provision relating, of course, to the previous NSRP, which predicted that responsibility should have been given, should the services have been directed by heads of government with some prospect of long-term operation - and what is it saying, in particular, in paragraph 11? ‘Since the internal procedure has been established, the secondment or movement shall be carried out in an earlier manner and the duration of the secondment and movement shall be five years’; In other words, in the sense of secondment or movement, we are creating positions of responsibility, positions of heads of state for five years and in the interim we are suspending the development of other officials - I do not know, obviously, they are capable or suitable for them to be there - and we are in a well-established position without evaluation - it does not tell us how they will be mobilised, it tells us that they will be moved and seconded - therefore, by decisions of political leaders. We therefore do not think that they contribute to the development of a good public service. The NSRF is that programme which, from all governments over time, since its first appearance, is considered to be the driving lever, the power of growth of the economy. I do not have this view - but it does not matter - in this debate. I do not have this view, because we have also seen the delays, we have seen too many points along the way to the ESDP, which were also traded - I can say how many issues were working - we have criminal persecution. Don't stay in these. Do we eradicate it in this way of maintaining heads for a five - year period by moving or secondment? I think the House should stand by this provision. And I see an amendment, which for me is unnecessary - and I refer to Amendment 521/43 - which says that special service is maintained, continues to exercise management powers for the Digital Convergence Programme 2007-2013 until accession to the Operational Programme NSRP 2014-2020. We therefore have a Digital Convergence Service as an operational programme of the NSRP and was created yesterday, with the legislation the General Secretariat for Digital Policy, was voted on by Parliament. The General Secretariat of Digital Policy has passed through the House and, in my opinion, a luxurious - if you like - service, comes directly to the Prime Minister and coordinates. So do we also need to maintain the NRP Digital Convergence Service? Is it luxury? Why should one general secretariat not serve these needs and must we have another? I do not have these questions answered. In fact, I have here and will submit it in the minutes, an announcement and a press release of the employees of the association of the company "BIO S.A.", which ask that the selection procedures be proceeded with in order to proceed with the operation of the service. [[At this point Mr Georgios Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For digital convergence I have also said to the House - and it was a funny thing to say - that I had identified, when a broader, updated debate was taking place - I think it was a question of the New Democracy - that the NSRF 2007-2013 programme, then with the most specific programme of the Athonite State - which was intended to develop the tradition, heritage, culture, the national Mount Athos - we found funds allocated through the Ionian State in the Region of Crete - I did not understand whether it had any medicaments, if the Mount in Crete has monasteries - to the Ionian Islands. They had channelled funds that we did not understand where they went, but it doesn't matter. How'd they go? Was it like the program to improve medical care at the University of Crete? He's got a lot of issues in here. But I won't stay in this any longer. I'm going to mention something, which has pissed me off, and I have to comment on it. I see it incorporated into the draft law and the legitimisation of so-called 'national customs'. What are these? I'll tell you, as I understand it. There will, of course, be a list. It's the rocket war of Chios, it's the war of Kalamata, possibly the ballots at the weddings, at the festivals, at the festivals of Crete. Of course, there's gonna be a list. I wonder, then, whether we should legitimize this? We have a high level of accidents. I'm not talking about accidents. Sometimes we have dead, we also have lost hands and other body members. Now, then, these will be industrialized and a police decision will be made that tells what the customs are. Of course, I must say that they are not national customs. In my place of origin, we have neither a rocko war nor a saitto war nor a ballot, to say that it is a pan-Hellenic war and they will develop, promote cultural heritage. They are local habits, which lead to - say it - in a temporary local heroism, in a cheek. Do we have to legitimize them? My point of view is that I don't. And why is my view not? Because the raw material on all these products is black powder. It's explosive. We will, therefore, allow through this management, through this marketing and construction to be able to... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall be brief, Mr President. Thank you. So, will we allow this legalization to be moved by craftsmen, even legally, in addition to the quantities of explosives? And after all, how will you check where these will be channelled? If I take five rockets and open them, I'll get a gunpowder to build a bomb. If I get a fuse, I'll be able to detonate this bomb, and if I'm able to build an improvised detonator, I'm gonna run him off with a hammer and blow him up, so I can do my heroism. I think we need to look at these issues carefully. I do not think they should come to the House and even legalise them. There are local customs. Let's respect them. But let us not get to the point where we can give them a legal status, because then everyone will want to extend it to the next. There are many amendments which give extensions. There are amendments which do not resolve issues. I've said it before. And I shall end with that, Mr President, I will not go any further. I see here an amendment to the accommodations in the tourism sector, which he says to me. It tells me that, because it has not been possible to approve the environmental studies submitted, we are giving them an extension to continue. That's reasonable. We're giving them the operating signal so they can be checked. First of all, I have no objection. I have, however, said something else in the same Chamber, which, unfortunately, the Ministry of the Environment did not hear it, it did not know - it did not matter - it did not care. The issue with the ski resorts was raised. I said: Can a ski centre operate without specific environmental conditions, when there is a risk? Because there they go not only athletes, they go and unrelated and many can happen. For the tourist accommodation, I had made a proposal and said that, since they do not have environmental studies, bring in, gentlemen of the Ministry of the Environment, a provision for standard environmental commitments, make every undertaking self-determination, each undertaking, each undertaking carrying out an activity, so that with a bosom, with an environmental outline, the person responsible can self-determination in order to allow certain conditions to be met. Do you know what that says to us today? It tells us that they will work without compliance with environmental legislation. Because since the law says they continue to quasi-legised. And if we have breaches of environmental legislation, we cannot have any administrative fines or criminal sanctions for the reason that we have no infringement of an administrative decision that has approved terms. And no one will be forced to be punished, even if it does cause environmental damage. I'm talking about little ones, of course. For large environmental damage there is different legislation that tackles the issue. With thoughts, then, I think that we have been placed, that we have given our mark to this bill, which is finally a rough and fragmentary one. And instead of solving problems, in our view it creates us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u3	We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Panayotar. Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Starting, I'd like to make two comments. We are not sympathetic to Turkey and the Turkish people. As he fell, he's going to sleep. When she has been suffering for years, she has equipped and trained the Islamics, to do her dirty jobs, the Americans, the Saudis and others at the expense of legality, either in Syria, either in Iraq, or in Afghanistan or elsewhere, it was nice. Now that the problem is back at their expense, it's not nice. Also, we cannot express our sympathy to a nation, which for forty-two years holds about half of our Cyprus, for a nation that has literally halved Kurdish villages and cities over the last two years. Anyone who wants to find out can go online and see what's going on. So we do not express any sympathy to them. Secondly, I would like to comment on something that the speaker of the Communist Party said yesterday, Mr Synatakis. Again, the designations were started for us: the neo-nazis, the criminals and all that. We return these designations, as well as the fact that shipowners' wishes are doing more than the JRC and we should at some point tell us which shipowner offshore sold 902, so that we know what we are talking about and who has a tanker with the shipowners. From there on, we are today being called upon to adapt - a very nice word - once again to the European Union's directives at the expense of, of course, national legislation. And we wonder, these days, just a few days after the referendum in Britain, the United Kingdom, what European Union are we talking about? The helpless one who saw British liberation from the European Union's bonds, with the proud 'no' in their referendum? Here are thoughts and memories about what was happening just a year ago here in our home country, where the current Prime Minister made a referendum, and 63% of the Greek people who said "no, we are ready for conflict, we are ready to leave the eurozone, from the euro, from Europe, out of all, in order to have national sovereignty, independence, so that we can make a shot at our place", he took it and the next morning a submissive "yes" and we have become the laughter of the whole of Europe. Really, who's the European Union? The one that breaks down, that more and more countries are calling for referendums and that we know very well where these referendums will lead? Soon there will be only Greece, all the countries will be gone, the European Union will be dissolved, and we will continue and say 'yes, what the Germans say, yes to the euro, yes to Memorandum 5, Memorandum 6, Memorandum 7', all these nations which want to be removed from this dreadful European Union and the slavery of German and their satellites, a European Union that has no sign of solidarity. And this is what we see in many cases, whether in national matters, whether in matters of illegal immigration or in trade issues where we constantly see that agreements are being made between the European Union and other states, most of which are not at all beneficial for our country. All because these agreements are in the best interest of the German companies and the products they produce at the expense of the products of Greece and other countries. There's so much of their panic, they don't know the referendum's over in Britain. The arguments they used before the referendum not only in Britain, but throughout the world - you were getting a daily newspaper in Greek and you saw pages full in favour of Bremain - they said things that do not stand anywhere. We see this panic of their own and of their phantoms going on and their purpose is to scare the rest of them who will want referendums in order to get rid of this slogan of the European Union, with the catastrophe that anyone who leaves the European Union - so they all say - will eat it black darkness. They continue to say about Britain what will happen to tourism. Tourism is progressing and operating properly. Those who come from Britain will come. Certainly, those who had gone last year and before the Aegean islands affected by illegal immigration will not go to those who had gone to the islands of the Aegean, which of course has nothing to do with Britain’s fleeing. Because automatically since Britain left the European Union, thousands of illegal immigrants conspiring in Kale and wanting to go to Britain of allowances now see their dreams falling apart and are already looking for other roads. Imagine Greece was in such a case. The huge flow of illegal immigrants and minimum refugees to our homeland would automatically be stopped. We hear about education, we hear about business, we hear about migration, as you have said, or about trade, as if there are no bilateral agreements between the European Union and states which are not members of the European Union or even of the Eurozone. Switzerland is probably the most advanced country in Europe with the happiest citizens. They are neither in the European Union nor in the Eurozone, they have their own currency and they go great. The same applies to Norway, which is a European country, which has higher GDP, higher growth rates and of course does not want to hear about the European Union, how much more for the euro area. There are also some countries that are in the European Union, but they are not in the Eurozone. They have their own currencies and live well, without the euro, with their own currencies, as they had learned for hundreds or millennia. All of this - I repeat - is done to terrorise Greek citizens. And in all this mess, we also have this leading figure of our Prime Minister, the Prime Minister without cigarettes, Mr Tsipras, who even made statements and commented on the British referendum. Instead of squeezing, slapping and not saying a word, because now in two or three days' time, we also have the anniversary of our referendum, giving instructions, he has given instruction and commentations. We're talking about phenomenal things, jokes. Today, the proud Prime Minister of the "first time left" has brought an urgent matter - an urgent matter, now being discussed in the Committee on Trade, the sale of all the port of Piraeus to 'COSCO'. These are the good things of the European Union, because - you see - they were all prerequisites in order to carry out the assessment and take our dose, the dose of about 8.5 billion, of which we will not see almost anything, because we will automatically refund them for the repayment of interest, interest and interest and all of them, while SYRIZA was talking about auditing, deleting most of the debt as shameful, lame, illegal, abusive. All of this is heard nowhere, except the Golden Dawn, which remains stable in its positions and says and documented and explains how this will be done. We also see the final discussions that are taking place on the Greek. Indeed, it is the Court of Auditors to pass on the final adoption. How soon before the Court of Auditors can there be entries in all the newspapers throughout the press? It was even a "salon" both pages with a terrible Greek cartoon about how it will take place after about fifteen years. You saw it and you said, "They're sick, my child." But is this all done one day before the Court of Auditors? After 15 years - I don't know where anyone might be - we'll have kept these molds filed and we'll see what's actually going to happen and what they were. There has also been a comment, and we should also comment on the huge'standard' of 'Carrefour - Marinopoulos'. There were more than EUR 1 billion of exposures. But could there be such openings? Where can all this happen? Of course, all of this is at the expense of the thousands of suppliers, most of whom are microproducers, who will be destroyed at the moment if they are not paid. I know the characteristic case of someone whose 'Carrefour' owed EUR 300,000. He had gone to be paid a few days ago, when he regained the Carrefour loan, and gave him 15,000 euros. Of these 15,000, 10,000 were on coupons to go get cans, pasta and macaroni. Thus the primary sector cannot function, no supplier can of course survive. It should be at some point before a decision is taken - because the 'Carrefour' decision is not now going to come about whether or not to be burdened with Article 99, that is to say whether it will be protected by creditors - to see if all of this has been done in previous years. Because during the times of judgment, but also during the judgment, very strange things became. Carrefour, and not only, every night, when they received receipts, were sent directly abroad. There were triangular transactions, all of which were at the expense of the Greek citizens and the Greek public. There was, like, money. Now this money is gone, they left the stores in their luck, as well as the over 12,000 employees to them and them to their luck. All because of the memorials. Because, basically, all of these have become a sacrifice on the memoranda, the multi-brands and all these great achievements of the European Union and the domestic accountants, those who are very pleased to do so. This Golden Dawn bill is, at that time in particular, a burden when all this happens in the European Union, instead of talking about other things, talking about famous growth and primary production. Just last week, Mr Tsipras in Economicist and the other fora came out and said that now that this was over, growth began. We have seen the first sign of growth by destroying, in essence, not only Carrefour, but also the chain reactions that will follow for the thousands of suppliers. For example, one who supplies the 'Carrefour' with food, let's say, cereals will be destroyed too. The one who supplies oil from Carrefour's trucks will also be destroyed. They will destroy chains and many categories of workers and professionals, who also depended on each other, as was done some time ago with Electronics. Unfortunately, this curse will not stop and it will continue elsewhere if things do not change completely. That is why we are voting against this bill in principle and, by the end, we shall refer to the vote on what articles we may be voting on. We must also build on the practice of the government, which in a relatively small bill has brought numerous amendments, whether or not they are relevant. The point is that once again the way in which Parliament should function is being violated, as is the timely questions where the ministers simply and dry are not answering anyone, because they are doing so. They answer whoever they want and when they answer, of course, do not give a substantial answer to the questions that Members have asked and are answering with a specific tape which they simply put and play and which does not concern them with what is said in protagonists and dentology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u5	The Minister, Mr Stathakis, has asked for the floor for a minute or two to be placed for a possible withdrawal of two articles from the bill. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I propose the withdrawal of two parts of the bill. Article 53 of the plan is deleted and Article 28(2) is deleted. Remind me what it is. Article 28(2) applies to the members of the Board of Directors, it introduces the notion of dome and negligence, but in a vague manner. So he wants further processing. It was also criticised by Members and I consider it legitimate to withdraw it and to go back to another law when this framework is clearer. The essence of the observation remains, but the way it is formulated is indeed quite unclear. Article 53 concerns the concept of custom. I have a phobia. There is no disagreement on the substance. The provision, however, gives a general authority to adopt a ministerial decision setting out the conditions for the conduct of all national customs, making it the only criterion for it to be repeated from generation to generation. I think that this way of legislating is not properly formulated. I therefore propose that it should be withdrawn and returned on the basis of the existing institutional framework. The customs which are legalised shall be directly legislated by law, which shall describe in a specific and specific manner both the criteria for registration of the custom concerned and the conditions for carrying out it. The reference to the issue from generation to generation in Ministerial Decisions is not the right way to legislate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Metarakis, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u9	I would like to speak on the withdrawal of Article 53.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u10	You have a right of dentistry, but because I understand why, I will give you one and a half minutes of your dentistry, which is seven and a half minutes to place you for Article 53. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u11	Minister, the amendment is the result of consultation with the municipality, the district and the fellow Member of the SYRIZA of Chios. It is an amendment that was accepted to the committee by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Kurubli, and voted by the majority of the House and by SYRIZA, and according to the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, it is correct. I understand you want to bring this to the bells. I will simply say this: The custom of Chios's rocko war, like other national customs, raises its roots from Turkish rule. The rocket war in Chios has been taking place since then, with the exception of the first two years of the junta. I understand that you will take a legislative initiative. We are waiting for it, but for the citizens of Chios to know that if this year's custom is not done, this will create a huge blow to Chios tourism, which has so far reduced 60% in arrivals. If it is not customary for the citizens of Chios to know that it is a decision of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u12	Because you spoke for seconds, it's not the time cut for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u14	I guess you'll get one minute. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u15	I think it is misleading to try to politicize this aspect. My answer is very simple. You could have legislated for years. You were government, thank God.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u16	There was never a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u17	Secondly, I should like to remind you of the serious nature of the matter that we are legislating a specific custom, if that was the aim of the amendment you have tabled, but we must always maintain a balance. The custom is not just a behaviour that is repeated from generation to generation, but a behaviour for which there is a confidence in law and without that dimension we cannot legislate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u19	Don't do that. It's at the expense of the others. I shall give the floor to Mr Teddy, who is a parliamentary representative. In your dentistry, you can come back, Mr. Mitarakis. One comment, Minister: I have the last page of the bill here. There's a record of signatures of Ministers and State Secretarys, twenty-one. Didn't one of the twenty-one see all that you told us? Twenty-one Ministers and State Secretarys sign. Mr. Teddy, do you get one or two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u20	Absolutely, Mr President. Thank you. I must say that we are amazed by the Minister and am surprised at that. I'll start with Article 28. I do not understand, Minister, the withdrawal of paragraph 2. Fortunately you keep at least paragraph 1. If you consider that in paragraph 2 there is a question of lack of wording, I think we have all the time to resolve it. It is about business executives and their responsibility and I think that in the bad economic climate in the country, the withdrawal of this provision does not work positively. I come to the second remark. To tell you the truth, when I saw you ask for the floor, I had the hope that you would remove the two rsypheological amendments, one of the unacceptable ones concerning the 'Sibitanide' and remove the qualifications of foreign language knowledge from the head of this school and the other about the recruitment of staff without any criteria, supposedly - from what I have heard today - with the impeccable argument of combat against contractors, as if the fight against contractors cannot put social criteria on recruitment, that is to say, the one who has two children from the child who has an unemployed child. I'm on my way to 53. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I want to be honest. Yesterday, Mr Mitarakis raised to the committee a matter for the loans relating to the newspaper 'AGEY' and immediately thereafter various rumours began in Parliament's building on retaliations against this colleague, who is well-known to have introduced this provision and agreed with the Minister of State, Mr Kourublis, on a custom in Chios. The Minister's point of view is that we have not legislated for so many years. We didn't legislate because there was recognition of the custom. There was no reaction. It was the custom. What's custom? As you quite rightly said, it is a long practice with uniform application of law. That creates fair. Since society, the police and the services accept the law, there is no need to legislate. Last year the police didn't allow it. The need for legislation is therefore created. If you say, Minister, that is not clear here, I will help you with your legal counsel to improve the wording and there is no question. But I fear to tell you that even if it is not your intention, because I have no reason to charge you personally bad intentions, it is not time to withdraw this provision. You know, you amplify rumors that have existed, which in any case do not exist even as rumors. Let me put this together. Because I'm telling you again that I'm talking about rumors, and I can't confirm them. But I do not like that you suddenly rise and withdraw this provision and you do not show sensitivity to the incredible layout for "Sibitanide" or the incredible provision for hiring without any criteria of the cleaners.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u21	The Minister has the floor for two minutes and we close this circle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u22	Trying to have a personal vengeance or retaliation with Mr. Mitarakis bypass. It's neither in my character nor in my relationship with Mr. Metarakis, so I totally override it. I don't think he's standing. As regards the legalisation or not of a custom, I imagine that we will agree very easily that the behaviour and functioning of a custom which does not follow the legislative framework as our country has - and fortunately it does - do - is how the police operates or operates against that custom. It's another matter of legislating and another issue of how the police treat one particular event. Also, I'm not overdoing the question. Therefore, if we want to be straight and honest, my proposal is very simple. If we want to follow the comparative legislation, we must legislate on rules and criteria. This is open to discussion. I repeat that the general provision, as it is formulated, is very general, very vague and violates its rule of law and how a custom is dealt with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u24	Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u25	Because there are regulations in the law concerning the Ministry of Education, although I have developed this issue in detail in committee, I would like to give some answers to a debate that was also in plenary session. As you will see, we place great emphasis on operational issues in the regulations. For example, we like multitudes of teachers who have parents of at least 67% of a disabled child. We become multiple parents with our own choice. We become children with disabilities, not with our choice. So, in our view, it is a fundamental obligation to go ahead with this legislative equality. Secondly, we are dealing with issues relating to vocational training, given that from this year onwards we have been moving towards a reform of the ESDP institution, so that there is an upgrade and a possibility for specialisations to go to the third year and that there is a fourth voluntary year of apprenticeship with rules not 'black' work but that 75% of the minimum wage is paid, as well as social security. Thirdly, we are moving on to issues relating to regulation, such as the question of IECs. This year the IEKs will be operating since October and we are taking steps to ensure that provision is made in time for their operation. The arrangements also include an arrangement for the Director-General of the School of Public Arts and Occupations. This is a historic school which is part of the public education system. It's not an autonomous school. It is part of the public education system. It is run by an Administrative Board chaired by the Archbishop of Athens, representatives of the Legal Board of the State and the Court of Auditors participate, as well as other personalities, staff and other factors, such as secondary education directors. Therefore, we have confidence in the judgment of the Sivitanidian School's Board of Directors. The Director-General, in our view, must be a man with long educational experience. So far there have been retired managers and other specialties, not in training. We believe that this must be stopped. A school such as Sivitanideos, which has been the model of vocational training in our country and the preamble to general vocational education, cannot be run by a non-educational person. That is why we are introducing this explicit report in our proposal that the school's three-year term should be a teacher with at least 10 years of pre-service in secondary or higher education. It is also obvious that we add the data you see as additional qualifications for the appointment of the Director-General. Obviously the knowledge of a foreign language is a positive element. But it's not mandatory. He doesn't deal with foreign people. I repeat that Sivitanideos is part of public education and is internationally represented in the various relations, if it has, through the Ministry of Education, the Department of International Relations of the Ministry of Education. The principal must be a teacher with experience - I repeat - with three years and not a heterogeneous employee from other sectors. We believe that the choice made with the agreement of the board of directors with persons I mentioned cannot give us any doubts about its objectivity. I am tabling the relevant legislative improvements for the Minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u26	Mr Lovers to serve my colleague Mr Amyras, who has to go quickly to a meeting of the Standing Committee, gives his order. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, too, Mr. Loverdos. Dear Minister, you have relied on the principle of inappropriate legislation to withdraw the two provisions. One of them is the rocket war of Chios. I have two comments to make. The debate on the concession agreement for the port begins at 11.00 in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. You will say, I imagine, to your fellow economic ministers that presenting the contract, the annexes and the body of the draft law at 10 o'clock last night, and discussing it after 15 hours, will not find you in agreement. I don't know how you're cheap in flour and expensive in pie in relation to how you legislate. That's the first. In relation to the rocket war in Chios, since the conversation here was redeemed with explosives, to say that customs are not legislated. The customs are above the legacy. However, there is, of course, a need to legislate on how to complete them. This gap must be clearly covered. If it's a rocket at the expense of the local MP, Mr. Mitaraki, because yesterday he threw another rocket into the committee on the issue of the share composition of the newspaper "AGEY" and of the offshore company, you're in the climate of the explosive rocket war in Chios. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been in great trouble for days. On the websites we saw that the number of people killed in Turkey from the terrorist attack last night at the Kemal Ataturk airport reached thirty-six. Of course, we also stand by Turkish citizens and other citizens - I mean foreigners in relation to Turkey - who have lost their lives from a blind terrorist blow. Our neighborhood is fragile. That's what last night's terrorist action shows us. However, Greece must not be irreversible in the face of developments and fundamentally in economic developments, which largely define the political game, the political field within our country. So to plan for the future, it is good to remember the past and even the recent past. Last year, the Ministerial Council unanimously approved the proposal of the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, to hold the referendum. Yesterday we had a one-year anniversary of the imposition of capital controls, capital restrictions on banks, a decision which led the economy, part of society and the life of citizens to a very difficult position. We still remember the statement by the Minister of State, Mr. Pappas, on the referendum, which, coming out of the Great Maximos, talked about a nice night in Greece and a nice day that was daylight. The capital controls are here, despite the fact that the government has announced four, five times that it will abolish or restrict them. However, capital restrictions remain. These restrictions prevent investment, remove oxygen from healthy Greek businesses. We also have the other big issue, that of the application under article 99 of the company "Marinopoulos S.A.". There are thousands of Greek suppliers behind this big economic issue who are waiting to see whether they will survive after September or not. In practice, that is, Greece is experiencing a deep night of uncertainty and recession. Today, if we are talking about the ESRB, for example, or the incorporation of European directives into national law, we are doing so because the European forces, with the peak of the Potami, of the PASOK - DIMAR, New Democracy, after the first derailment of the first half of 2015, kept the country in Europe. That's the point. But the 'good night' account, which Mr Papapas had invoked, is a great one. In the EUR 86 billion, the Governor of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournaras, appreciated the cost of the first SYRIZA period. We were told a little more by the head of the European Stability Mechanism, Klaus Regling. At EUR 100 billion the account of the first governing period by SYRIZA and ANEL. Instead of having a strong growth of 3% last year and this year, Greece has recurred. Income lost, jobs lost. All of this in whose name? The populism you want, the demagogy? Let's take the delusion. We also see a great deal of confusion today in relation to Brexit. Here I would say that internally we have not yet understood all the shocks that Brexit will bring into the Greek economy and not just in tourism. It is therefore time to see and dismantle some myths built by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in any case. Myth first: 'No one will throw us out of Europe.' That taboo fell. He's been knocked out. Even the British who voted Brexit and have now regretted it, have realised that the European Union has rules. It has rules for both the British and the Greeks. However, Greece remains the only Memorandum country in Europe and this makes Greece's position very vulnerable. It is something that the relevant ministers hope to keep in mind. Myth two: development comes with legislation, with political will. Oh, no. Before Brexit, the Greek Government estimated recovery for the second half of the year. Now this course is not at all sure. The economic turbulence, as I said before, which prevails in Europe, of course affects tourism in Greece, prevents investment, but most importantly sends foreign investors' capital to safe shelters, away from Greece. The government kicked the chance of growth in 2015, - the international juncture at that time was positive - preferred the referendum and, of course, - the capital controls. Development will not come on instructions or bills or wishes, but with political boldness. Myth third: "We will beat the bullies and the markets will dance." You all remember, Mr Tsipras said so, and of course he had been excited by his audience, among them, of course, and by the SYRIZA Members, who have been practicing him. And you, Mr. Stathakis, you've been relocating him. Now, tell me, what are you dancing for? Is what the Prime Minister told us would be pleading for foreigners to lend us? Then why are we permanently inclined to substitute the receptor? However, the Central Bank of Britain - to see how the tuuli were beaten there, because we are talking about the world's fifth most powerful economy - has allocated tens of billions of sterling to support their national currency. Also, the sterling has fallen into the historical low age of the last thirty years. Yesterday, I was reading an interview with Richard Branson, Virgin, saying "We are in disaster". His company, the colossus, which is from the airlines and the T-shirts and hotels to the space rides, lost in one night from the outcome of the referendum one third of its value. Méreas, then, the question arises: What would happen in Greece if those revolutionary ideas for parallel currency and all the related, dear Stathakis, had come forward? The proud negotiation that would lead us? We know where he led us. It led us to 86 billion, at least, lost in 2015. Thank God you didn't go any further. Fortunately! Another myth, the fourth: "SYRIZA is changing Europe and shaping a new political landscape". Where did you see that? It changes Europe, but makes it more conservative. Did you see what happened in Spain? The brother, comrade party, Podemos, who, of course, in the process, renounced Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA, was placed third, despite the great supposed performance he would bring to the elections. Why? Because the Spaniards had connected Podemos with SYRIZA and the Greek way of governance is no model for Europe and especially the Spaniards. All of what do they show us? They show us that the SYRIZA government has consumed in pointless battles with negative results, has damaged the banking system with the referendum, has lost time, so Greece again looks like Europe's weak link and accepts greater pressure than ever before by external factors. However, the solution is only one. Same rules and equal opportunities for all. That should be the recipe, that should be the path that the Greek Government should take to release, so that it does not cause a problem, to leave, at least, those Greeks who are trying with health, with rules and productivity. I want to close my placement with this: A sign of whether this country is going to move forward is what is going on in Corfu. Corfu now is in her jewel, it's on her tourist rise. Now everything he's got, in the next two months. The trash has reached three meters. Local society has responsibilities, of course. It also has responsibilities for regional administration. But it also has responsibility for the central administration of this country because, when a Corfu is allowed to sink into the trash, what can you then expect for the rest of the burning and open issues that have burned down the Greek production base, the Greek society? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u28	I invite Mr. Loverdo to the Step. Then you will allow me to interrupt the flow of Members of Parliament - as we always do - because they have two colleagues left to speak. We will then close the protagonists with non-speaking parliamentarians and any of the rapporteurs and parliamentarians who want secondary education will have the opportunity, but with the note that at 14.00 we must be done because the meeting on COSCO will start and so many colleagues must be there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u29	What time will the meeting begin?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u30	The committee's on the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u31	At 14: 00, we must be done. It's already begun, but at 14: 00 we have to be done, so that people can follow the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u32	They're also immunity reliefs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u33	Motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget. Yesterday you had a birthday, but you also celebrate today and the next days with joy and happiness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u36	Fifteen days...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u37	The fifteen days may be a good time to manifest your joy and other feelings. They are the Capital Controls, which close a year. And to honour your birthday, I remember, ladies and gentlemen, that Saturday when the debate started - it was Mrs Constantopoulou and Mr Voutsis at the ministerial seats, who played the role of the constituent of the debate - on the referendum, to say: 'Have you seen the matter with the closure of the programme? Have you seen that? Are you sure what you will do since the program is over and the country will be on the air?" The answer was that we have it all broken up. The minutes of the House are an undisputed witness. The next day at noon the then Minister of Finance announced to his wife that he closed the banks. And since then, we have been through months of economic adventure, with huge social impact and a great issue of dignity for the Greek economy and the Greek state. Ladies and gentlemen, the second phase of the rageous lie - the first phase of the rageous lie was in January 2015 for the thirteenth pension and the programme of Thessaloniki - and the deception of the Greek citizen was in September 2015. And for September, the ministers - and the one present - presented to us as truthful, that 'we talked about it then, we were clean, we got a clear order'. Then they were talking about the parallel program, for awesome equivalents. Unfortunately, the Minister of Education has left and is not here, to remind him of the four families who would have taxed and had enough revenue from this tax to find VAT equivalent to private education. I would also remind you, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Katseli, President of the National Bank, that in six months' time the capital controls would be abolished. I was at that time at the Hellenic American Chamber of Commerce, in a quite serious debate about the economy, and the minister, Mr. Stathakis, very wisely said that as a teacher he cannot appreciate when this period of capital controls will end. That's right, he said. It's not over yet. And as long as there's no trust in our credit system, it won't end. Because, if it were to expire, they would be put back next day, from the waves of people who would go to pick up their other statements. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Good for you! You should be happy as politicians and a political party that you have supported this terrible choice! Ladies and gentlemen, other colleagues have done so, and I will do so today, I will report to Brexit. The first thing I want to say is that we are not right when we are Hellenizing the issue, we do that as well, and we see it all through the light of our own personal or political position. It's wrong. It is a pan-European issue, a global issue. And that's the only thing he's got to be serious about. The second thing I want to say is that we have never been serious about Europe. Never! Even on the European elections, Europe is an inexistent issue in our discussions. For some, it's an inexistent subject in their knowledge. That is how it happened in the United Kingdom. Europe has not been involved. I read - and I was very surprised - that Europe and its own issues - not the debate caused by the liars for Europe - were inexistent in the United Kingdom too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Loverdo, will you ever stop swearing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u39	Please, Mr. Theonas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u40	You guys all the time. What's that? The liars, them and the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u41	Don't interrupt, Mr. Theonas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u42	I didn't say anything about you, Mr. Theonas. And I made another report. I wonder why you're interrupting me. Right now, I'm talking about something very interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u43	It's a match.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u44	He's a good and serious man, and I don't want to hurt him. I've known him for decades.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u45	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u46	I said, therefore, that this issue has been degraded, and that is why dialogue is being reduced. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, there, and here and elsewhere in the European Union, the responsibilities of the political system and the political system in question go back to the European Union. 'The wrong policy, but what to do, Brussels'. It is a transfer of responsibilities, which is entered into the consciousness of people. And that's where it happened, and that's where it happens. A fourth topic - very serious - is that, since there is no European political municipality, said by the late Demetris Tsatsos - it was a very great need to create and not create - the reason that covers the gap between the lack of a European municipality is the technological reason for Brussels. He's incomprehensible. It's not understandable. He's repulsive by definition. He's abducted and rightly repulsed. But he's not at his level, only the one who's articulated. He is the one who is articulated and there is no European political reason. Fifth point: it is not important for the information system, but for policy, for what is done in the European Union on the creation of the European municipality. You know, we are applying the Treaty of Lisbon. Last week, one day before the referendum, in the Committee on European Affairs, we discussed an initiative by the French Parliament to establish rules, a directive, relating to toxic carcinogens to be banned from the industry. It is the initiative of the French Parliament. All twenty-eight parliaments were gathered and then the debate was spread to them. That's as far as it goes. And not all parliaments. The debate was closed at the Standing Committee on European Affairs. He didn't move anywhere else. There was no word written about it. However, it is an attempt to unify this politically. It is incomprehensible - unjustified here - even though particularly political and particularly important. Ladies and gentlemen, sixth point: Xenophobia has considered the result in the United Kingdom. Xenophobia not only against immigrants - and with them - but also with internal European migration. The 'other', the 'other', which we may have seen many times and never in mind, did not have an image of what we fear was the result. And that must be very serious to all of us. Therefore, instead of rushing Greek-centric logic to erroneously assimilate Brexit, we need to see what the truth is about the needs of change in the European Union, but also about the problems that we ourselves have and we create in the European Union ourselves. Was it not political nonsense and lies too wide - what was said here by the Prime Minister of the country about austerity policies, which affected the course of the UK voter? What does the austerity policy, like us, have to do with a country that has not only its own fiscal policy, but also its monetary policy and six years of Cameron, which has imposed its policies? What does this have to do with austerity, as we have suffered it? What attempted to meditate behind problems, which the other does not have, was it the one made on the part of the people who lie and handle air cut off in order to serve their own party interest in the moment? Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, we must understand that the first world is the victim of globalisation. The first world is the victim of globalisation! The level of life in Europe, in the Union of five hundred million and falling, cannot be kept at the levels they were. And that won't change because someone thinks they're going to recover their own state entity and identity and get back to the dominant positions they were. This reference is for the United Kingdom. A world that does not exist, a world that has been lost, a world that was dominating is not coming back because you voted 'Brexit'. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I was very surprised at the lie that was put in there by election for 350 million of the alleged weekly cost of the UK's stay in the European Union and that would be given to health. 'Leave Europe' was the transmitter of this lie. A few days later, a few hours after the referendum, it was thought by Mr Farage that was wrong. Does that remind you of anything? It reminds me of the entire election period of September 2015 and January 2015, ladies and gentlemen. That's how you won the election. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to what we say, as far as we can imagine, and as far as we have understood Europe, and as far as we have liked or disliked, I would like to remind you of a phrase by Mark Mazauer. This continent was characterized as 'darky' by Mazauer. It was termed "dark" because it is the continent of wars, massacres and blood. It is the hardest continent on our planet and the only period of peaceful break is these seventy to eighty years of the EEC and the European Union. Europe must change, but it must not be dissolved. And the one who is trying to dismantle it today will first of all dismantle himself if we look at the attitude of Scotland and Northern Ireland. I hope that the developments in the coming months will be such that they will enable the citizens of this country to reconsider. Now I'm coming to ours. Yesterday I spoke, Mr Kaklamani, twice as a parliamentary representative, to express our disappointment and disapproval in the policy of raining the amendments. The Bureau - and at the Conference of Presidents this afternoon I shall put the matter to the Conference of Presidents - a brake on this attempt to become bypass, ladies and gentlemen, what? The pre-parliamentary consultation. The law imposes it, it's not at the discretion of Mr. Friend or Mr. Stathakis not to do it. The law imposes it. That's the one. Secondly, it is the Central Legislative Committee. Thirdly, it is the Department of Scientific Studies of the Parliament. Fourthly, it is the Standing Committees. These are preconditions and guarantees of good legislation. I am not saying good legislation in the sense of good regulation for the good of people and of the country - that will be assessed according to the criterion of right or wrong - but I am talking about technically good legislation. You're overdoing all this. You're coming in at the last minute, you're avoiding everything. Avoid what has been adopted and you bring amendments that are draft laws, such as the amendment to contract law. In this amendment, to amend the law of contracts - we will say 'at present' - can you tell what you are voting on? You don't know what you're voting for and no one can pretend to be smart, he understands and knows. Fellow Members of the majority, who will take responsibility, hope you've seen the provisions you've changed. There is no forgiveness if a major and serious problem is identified in the implementation of this arrangement in the coming days. We're hitting the alarm bell, especially with this setup. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to need another minute and I'm going to finish. It is also the Ministry of Education's amendment. Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that an amendment to such matters should not go beyond the procedure of the guarantees I have described to you? And you know what's in it? I would not say that it has the most important possible, but it is a method that we have disapproved, that is to say, legislation on education with amendments. I was the Minister of Education in June 2014 and the whole Chamber had disapproved my previous colleague, not because he did not do his job well, but because he was bringing in amendments instead of regulation. One of them was for the relocations to universities. They charged her to me. That's how I pulled all my ministerial mandates. I was the bulletproof that pulled anything bad that I hadn't done, you had. And it was an amendment and you hadn't taken it, in May 2014. We said afterward that this ministry, which has issues relating to so many millions of people, should come here with draft laws. Mr. Phils came here, made an intervention in a mixed style, and you said what's nice to say and bring the third assignment. Third assignment to schools! Thirty years back! He kindly brought her, I'm not saying, but he brought her to the third assignment. What would SYRIZA's education sector say about the second assignment to me before the 2015 elections? Ladies and gentlemen, it sets the objective of the Ministry of Education to have appointed all deputy professors in September. I warn you that nine and a half thousand less substitutes will be placed this year with these arrangements. They'll be less than nine and a half thousand. In order to be able to open the schools, it has already been cut by the arrangements it has made, the educational staff. We will see whether this will bring about more regulation in this respect, with a draft law, and we will call it education. But let's talk about it right. What can we say now? I'm in the seventeenth minute, and I have to finish. I'm done, and I don't have time. But the amendments are such that they have issues. It says here that you can certify a foreign language as a legal person in the public and private sectors. That's right. But why, Minister, do you have a year and a half in dismantling the foreign language departments of the Universities of Democritus, Crete, the Aegean for which they had taken initiatives and, in particular, one, the Democritus, was ready to work? Why have you froze these? Opposite policies, fragmentary policies, unreasonable things. Where can they take a turn in a coalition and opposition? In the ordinary legislative procedure. Well, today at the Conference of Presidents, let us also take the majority, and not just us, because we alone do not reach the decision to stop this flow of amendments. Finally, Mr President - and this is what I am closing down - the Secretary-General has not? Don't you have a Secretary to the Minister's Council to check what you're bringing here to stop provisions? Don't you have a government organised? What do you got? Whoever wants to bring anything he wants? Each government operates its secretary on an administrative footing. Do you have a secretary? You've typically got a secretary. Is he doing a job? And you're happy? Can you say that you are taking these amendments on your back? And good one, which says a manager's qualification should be the same. The one that's modifying public procurement is in your mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u47	Please, Mr. Loverdo, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u48	Did a Member of Parliament have a place for this? A parliamentary spokesman was put on it, saying, yes, is it good regulation, because it contains alpha, beta, gamma and delta? They're passing unsolved. It's not right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u50	Minister, let's not interrupt. Besides, we're done, and then you've got a second. Keep your notes, please, so we don't cut off the conversation. Mr Loverdo, of course, yesterday we missed the opportunity to change the Rules of Procedure of the House. I fully agree with what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u51	We did not have these provisions for debate yesterday. We had another chapter. The President told us that there would be a special debate on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u52	We should have put it on. That's what I'm saying. I agree. I don't know what's gonna happen. Yesterday I knew that there was a long discussion and, in my opinion, the opportunity was lost. I wish what you said in the future would happen. Mr. Vorides and Mrs. Antony follow. Mr. Karathanasopoulos told me to precede, Mr. Papachristopoulos. He may speak, he may not speak. We are closing the protagonists and I shall begin to ask about the secondarys, which rapporteurs and speakers - the Minister, self-evidently - and who of the parliamentary representatives want to speak, with a relative pity because, as we have said, we have to finish at 14.00 p.m. From the outset, I say to both speakers who will follow that they will speak a little longer, instead of seven and a half minutes, eight. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make it quite clear, Mr Minister, why there is this withdrawal of the provision concerning Chios. I want clarification. Let me say this: I understand from any Member of Parliament that there has been no negative criticism of this provision. This provision has been voted for by the SYRIZA in committee, it was voted for by the government by a majority and it was accepted by the majority, if not by all parties, and at the present time it is unjustified - at least at the level of regulation - that there is a withdrawal. Are you punishing Mr. Metarakis? Are you punishing him? Because there's no other reason. Is there anyone, any other reason for withdrawing the order?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u54	I can explain it to you. I said that. I explained it. You weren't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u55	Let me finish. Since there is virtually no justification, because there is no criticism internally, because the provision has been passed because it has been accepted by the government by a majority, because it has been proposed by the government, there is no other connection to do. Because Mr. Metarakis is doing his job as a Member of the opposition, Chios must be punished! This is the logical order of things. That is what you realise to be unacceptable, both at the level of the judiciary and at the level of political function. So when you are opposed by someone, you will then punish him in his constituency? What kind of message is that about how you legislated? That's the first. Secondly, the bill obviously, as you have seen, did not cause any shocking interest. The lack of interest is seen by the number of speakers. Why didn't he cause any interest? Because, little so, they are technical things and, to a large extent, they improve, at least in some respects, some of the points of the legislation. Apart from what is Community directives, however, I would like to ask directly: you are now coming and introducing something that is not your own provision. You come and go and suggest to Parliament this. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. Central, decentralised and all the Services of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity - all - may - by way of derogation from any other general or special provision of law - a general derogation is introduced - by decision of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity or the board of supervisors for cleaning purposes and for the maintenance of the buildings of their liability - listen to legislation now! - to conclude individual rental contracts for works or services.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u56	The Minister of Health has done that. It's a copy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u57	Sure. What is this legislation? What does "individual contracts" mean? I, now, come directly to ask you the simple question: are those who are you going to get meeting standing and constant needs, yes or no? Let's talk about this right away. Are cleanliness needs seasonal? Safekeeping needs are seasonal? What are you doing now, ladies and gentlemen? I say this to the majority Members. You create the new generation of contractors, the new generation of IDAC, the new generation, which, after the completion of the six-month or eight-month period, will go for insurance, it will say that it covers fixed and continuous needs and by way of derogation any other provision has been hired. But are these serious things? Is it possible to recruit the public in this way? Are these fixed and the needs last? Do you want to get personal permanent for cleaning? Yes, sir. Follow normal procedures. Why would you do that by way of derogation? We tell you 'no'. We're telling you that this is obviously not right. We are telling you that this obviously brings with it a huge cost. We're telling you that this obviously doesn't work, and we wonder where there are ministers on board, he says, why they threw the companies out. What companies? Do you bear in mind the terrible cost that arises? Do you bear in mind the malfunctions? Have you considered the additional costs associated with this, which the companies had? Have you done a study on all this? But, in any case, you say that you have a different view of this. By way of derogation? So go declare the positions legitimately. What are you doing? Are you serious? Mr Vernardakis comes here and tells us about the integrity and neutrality of the public sector, its dismantling, how we go to the next public, and here you are actually making recruitments with a Minister's decision! Excuse me, it's scandalous, it's unacceptable, it's terrible practice. You are expressing what has really been condemned and what has largely brought us here as practice. But that was also unrecognized at an unrecognized time. They did it once, somewhere and once, when there were no such knowledge and preconditions and what they brought us here today. And you come here today and legislate such things? And this is the second time that this is happening. The Ministry of Health has also legislated respectively. I'm not coming to ask the next one. Will each Ministry individually bring such a provision? The Department of Health now I see the Ministry of Labour and Welfare is doing it. Anyone now will start bringing in a provision? Will he bring a provision and the finance, like? Will you bring a provision for your own cleaners there, too? Somehow they clean up there and you, someone's guarding. Will you bring in a layout, too? In any case, what is the government's policy? Is the government's policy that individually, by Ministry, will it go or have an overall policy on this matter? And if you want to hire, I'm asking again: Do you bypass the ASA in this process? Do you, then, have an objective procedure? To ask you now: What do you say to the people and citizens - I want it directly - on the criteria you apply to recruitment? There are colleagues who know they want objectivity, want transparency, want not to be party recruitment. What do you say to the citizens who are to be recruited by this process? On what basis will the Minister hire them? With "criminality"? Will they bring the paper from KOVA? KOVA has the KKE, you don't know what you've got. What kind of paper will they hire? What's the status? What if they're friends of the minister? By what process will you choose? I beg your pardon, these practices are totally unacceptable, which we see to be generalised. Mr President, this is terrible. In every bill there is a rouspheological provision. SYRIZA has abandoned politics against society and now what he does is: a thousand pieces from here, we got them. Now they're talking, I hear he's been in consultation, and they're gonna hire eight hundred, he says, from the direct mortgage guards working in the mortgages and doing it all in public. Another eight hundred pieces from there. Then I now hear about transfers from the PPA. Thousands of pieces of this way. Every bill is a thousand. To sit down and build the party armies, the Greek taxpayer will pay them! This is a terrible practice, it is a sad process, it is a terrible choice, which is turning us back too many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u58	Mrs. Antoniou has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. I won't need all the time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today, as many colleagues have said, a bill for which I do not see any of the five speakers on the list being from the SYRIZA. Now, what bill is that no one has any interest in SYRIZA defending it? I have my thoughts. Of course it started as a bill incorporating some directives, some of the amendments to European Union directives, with which we agreed in principle. But from there on, Minister, what we have denounced many times in this House continues: ministerial amendments were included in the draft bill, articles from thirty-eight to fifty-three-eight, and now another nine were tabled, ten - I do not know how many - amendments. What should I wish for? Why don't we cut them? We cannot legislate in this way, and I will explain why we cannot, ladies and gentlemen. A month ago we had the bill of the Ministry of Education, Religious Affairs and Research - known - under the rules on research, in which seven ministerial amendments and fifty two parliamentary committees were tabled, many of which were accepted, Minister. That's what you're doing. You have your Members to table amendments to pass on provisions of your choice. So you incorporate them into that bill and you come back with an amendment from the Ministry of Education to discuss the same issues. Otherwise we have a debate on education! You convinced us. We cannot legislate on the serious issues of the Ministry of Education, Mr Ministers, with amendments that go into every bill. I shall refer specifically to the amendment by the Ministry of Education, Article 43, which deals again with regulations on research, to show how to legislate. Details, ladies and gentlemen, in paragraph 6 of Article 43 of this draft law, you are essentially reintroducing paragraph 15 of Article 8 of Law No.4310/2014, our own research law, which you amended by the "bucket", Law No.4386 of 2016, one month ago. Now did you realize that the right arrangement was the previous one, Mr.4310? What can I say that's it? Supposed to say? Impossible to say? I'd say it's a management failure, Minister. You made a mistake a month ago and you are now coming to fix it. "Rave, dry up, work not to miss you," they say in my area. In paragraph 2 of Article 43, you extend for another six months the adoption of the rules of procedure of the research centres. These should have been over since June 2015. I wonder, Mr. Ministers, do you work there at the Ministry of Education at all? You haven't finished anything. Mr. Fotakis was saying he's going to make an announcement about the investigation, on a question I asked him. Zero! What are you doing? You're just transferring the job. You'll finish the regulations in the next semester. So it will come November 2016 and you will say "we give six more months of extension", since we have given PPP extensions and extensions. However, it is not certain whether this is the case because you are not working or whether there is a deliberate extension for the research centres, so that the 'driven' crises of the presidents and directors from the temporary EESC, whose term of office ends in September, do not fit in with the 'driven' crises of the presidents and directors of the temporary EESC, which expires in September, so let us have a margin until December. That's right! You're on the move again. And since we are talking about amending the NRP law, of Law No.4310, I have to tell you, Mr Ministers, that you are rather insufferable. Without having any shame about the "I said" you continue the downhill of the "first time" Left. Yesterday, as has been said by many colleagues, we had the birthday of capital control and the first time left government, which cost others some 86 billion, another says 100 billion losses in our country. I'm not saying it cost 100 billion. Regling says so. The results of all these, Minister, of all the damage you cause, appear to be daily, such as yesterday's "Marinopoulos S.A.". But I don't see you care. All you care about is changing the arrangements of the Ministry of Labour, to make individual contracts on "logue", eventually. All you care about is the electoral law, which you are in a hurry to bring to the House, as if this were of interest to the world and to the Greek citizens. And I wonder if it's of interest to the workers at MARINOPOULOS S.A. to bring electoral law. What you're probably concerned about is destroying what's left up in this country. And since, at last, by electoral law, you admit that you will not be the first party in the next election, what are you trying to do? Create insolence problems in the next election. That's your plan. But I will hope you will not be too late for the election because, as you go, Minister, you will not even be second! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Papachristopoulos is obviously in committee. When he comes, I'll give him the floor. Mr. Karathanasopoulos told me the same thing. If need be, he'll talk. We completed the prototype cycle. So we are now entering the second lists of rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives. The time is 11.55 ́.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, will the ministers not take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u62	Of course, I'm not done. I just want to count the time, do the arithmetic, Mr. Loverdo. Although you have seven minutes - apart from Mr Demetriades, to which we will be giving up a little time, because of something that happened yesterday - I propose that we begin with five minutes. So there are forty minutes the rapporteurs and forty minutes the parliamentary representatives, eighty minutes, count one and a half hours. The Minister will have ten minutes to answer and answer. At 14:00, we must have passed the bill to get into immunities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u64	And you will speak. I'll ask one if he wants to talk. I'm not going to override anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-four students and students and three school attendants of Cyprus. We very much welcome you and welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Dimitriadis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I may need a little more time, because yesterday I did not suggest and it is important.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u66	All right, now, let's try to be in our time and don't count on the calibration...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u67	I will try, Mr President. I will continue, ladies and gentlemen, the glorious role of presenting the remaining parts of my report on this draft law, which concerned the second chapter. I'm starting with the chapter on NSRF matters. General issues relating to purely internal operation and correction of ESDP services are regulated. This provision shall be amended as follows: For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Secondly, the duties of the Head of National Coordination Authority are described in detail. Thirdly, there is a recommendation of the ECHR's mission structures. Fourthly, the provision relates to the Public Investment Programme and, in particular, to the expropriation procedure that is now taking into account the reality. Fifthly, with the amendment of paragraph 4 of Article 30, all contracts relating to human resources dealing with ESDP projects are excluded as a whole. Sixth, it is foreseen that all remuneration of all general government agencies - seconded or mobile - will be paid by the institution of origin. Seventhly, the amendment to Article 38 expressly provides that the relevant arrangements shall also apply to mobile staff. Eighth, provision shall apply to cover the position of the Head of Special Service. Ninth, the Special Management Office shall carry out pre-assessment and follow-up of the projects of the Association Facility with Europe. In addition to Article 54a, the Ministry of Development is allowed to process the personal data resulting from the activity of participating in operations financed by the European Social Fund. Eleventh, secondment and staff movements are regulated. Articles 12 to 18 concern agricultural programmes as part of the NRP which must have been signed by the Ministry of Rural Development. In the third chapter on industrial affairs, the regulations deal with amendments to the provisions of Law 3982/2011 and regulate the issue of licensing of professionals, business parks and businesses. Firstly, with regard to technical professions, we are giving an extension by the end of 2016 of the right to match existing old licences and new ones. At the same time, there is a way out in cases of absolute failure to carry out examinations in regions which have already set up committees of inquiry, mainly because of unavailable infrastructure. The question of matching the old maintenance licenses, which are replaced with installation licenses, as well as the process of matching a freezer licence, is specified. When it is more than five years inconsistent, all the corresponding arrangements are to be revoked by analogy to all the other presidential decrees. As regards licensing, a solution is being found to the inability to modernise existing medium-term nuisance units in Attica, with environmental protection conditions. In residential areas the industrial installation can be modernised, but without any increase in power. The average nuisance units in Attica allow modernization unit with a 20% increase in power. It shall be extended by one year in the period of technical reconstruction, provided that the operator has proven to have carried out the corresponding operations. As regards business parks, it is facilitated the development of organised infrastructures for business through the possibility of partial integration of the required infrastructure. It is foreseen that the technical pre-study for a business park licensing project is now replaced by a preliminary study. It is simpler, cheaper and more accurate and has already been done with FYROM regarding FYROM. The necessary area for the gradual development of business parks from two thousand acres - where necessary - is reduced to a thousand acres. It simplifies the environmental authorisation of activities located in business parks, as it extends to other host organisations, i.e. BIP and HEI. It provides for a reduction in the land contribution to the resolution business, where necessary, from 15% to 20%, on the basis of their overall surface area. All types of parks shall be provided for the possibility of concluding contracts by the development agency or administration of the parks with the relevant TAs, on the basis of which the body is entrusted with cleaning, lighting, public spaces and others. The simplified procedure for the approval of environmental conditions by the establishments within the BIPs of Law 4458/1965 and the BATs of Law 2545/1997 extends. As regards bakerys, the deadline for their compliance with the specific requirements of Law 3526/2007 is extended until 31 March 2007 for the existing bakeries and service stations prior to 2007. Fifthly, for the employees of the ECOMMC subsidiaries, provision is made for the possibility of compensation by public intervention in respect of the transfer of the necessary funds, primarily on the grounds of equal treatment. In the chapter on issues of the General Secretariat for Trade and Consumer Protection, some issues are dealt with and basicly lay the foundations for the creation of an electronic commerce register in Greece. We aim to make full use of GEMH's activities. The more systematic registration of enterprises in the sector responds to the development of e-business in recent years in our country. The responsibility for information to European Union bodies shall also be transferred by the GFCM Supervisory Board to the relevant address of the General Secretariat for Trade and Consumer Protection. The fifth chapter concerns tourism. Separate issues have been raised by the administration and stakeholders. It is important because a criticism has been heard otherwise unfairly. In Article 29 of this article, the word 'independent' of Article 4(1) of Law No 393/1976 concerning the printing facilities and only those facilities is deleted because it raises questions of interpretation and application. It is therefore possible for a necessary air to be set up and to avoid unnecessary costs. Article 30 allows professional drivers engaged in full rental with a driver in private vehicles to be insured in any insurance institution and not just in IKA. By Article 31 adds to Law 4276/2014, to the basic, that is, a law on tourism, and public passenger cars without a meter, with a guide, to limos. In paragraph 2, an authorised provision in Law 4276/2014 is added to Law 4276/2014 to determine the procedure for granting a special operating mark to passenger cars without a meter, with a driver. By means of paragraph 4, the obligation to issue and paste signals of legal function relating to the SETE is repealed by law. It shall be effectively repealed as of January 2015. The EOT's badge remains the same. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, two more minutes, please. By paragraph 5, it finds a solution to the question of parking caravans in public areas and it becomes clear that the restriction of the device refers exclusively to the installation in public areas of each category of caravans and not to their simple and temporary parking. Article 32 is purely procedural and focuses on the TEE categories of tourism enterprises to cover not only the heads of directors but also regional tourism departments. Article 33 provides for disputes relating to administrative penalties to be resolved. The submission of an appeal shall suspend the execution of a sanction until the relevant decision of the Committee based in the Ministry of Tourism has been adopted for up to three months. Only an exception, the submission of which is not suspensory, is penalties in health stores and pools for reasons of public health. In Article 34 the business projects responsible for their implementation are the Department of Tourism Investment of the Ministry of Tourism and had to be paid in 2015, receive an extension for the end of 2016, due to the delays caused by the repayment of certain projects. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] Article 35 encourages the licensing and operation of health tourism centres, sea therapy centres and refreshing centres where the separation of water pending from such centres is ensured and no longer considered as urban or any other form of sewage. Article 36 provides a legal coverage for regional tourism services in respect of the airport ‘MAKEDONIA’ for the promotion of such services. Article 37 amends the procedure for the reimbursement of the sums from the participation of the Greek State in the gross profits of the casino of Parnitha and Corfu at 75% at the Greek Festival of 17% and the remaining 8% at the Ministry of Finance. So far, this procedure has been followed in an irregular manner. Article 38. A time limit shall be given for the registration of the property of the Tourism Education and Training Agency of the OTEK after its abolition. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a useful intervention to speed up the work of governance. Our aim for a new governance with fair growth is firm and persistent. The prospect, in this new landscape for our country, of joining larger groups of political and social forces is an open and lasting proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Demetriadis. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Before I say anything else, I have a question. Someone's gonna have to untie me sometime. When will the President of Parliament be able to fill the Chamber? Because I believe that this is why we are parliamentarians to exist in this Parliament. It's a question I always have. I have listened very carefully to all the speakers. I am unpleasant to say - and I am sorry to say, because with Mr Vorides I am abyssed - that I too believe that none, but no recruitment to the public service should take place outside the APA, and when I say 'no' I mean it. Once I have to be happy, when I get taken by a voter - and you know everyone takes you - saying "Doc, my daughter has done her papers", I can directly and directly say "do not, forget it, it's through an ASP" and not for 99.9% but for 100%. That is, what happened at CEDEFOP never happens anywhere. Secondly, with regard to today's bill, I would like to say that I am one of the people I believe, I believe and will continue to believe that I am a Europeanist, one of those who stay inside and not from the outside or those who want the European Union to be dissolved. With Mr Loverdos I disagree with 90% of what he says - I listened with caution - but I agree that we are guarding this Union as an eyewitness and trying to improve it from morning to night. What can we do? A lot. I believe that today's bill concerns corrective actions following their experience and we did not have one. I would even like to refer to four moves and then comment on a few things from what I have heard today because it is timely. I don't think there's anyone who disagrees about tax evasion. So, as many people have access - I mean, officially, state bodies - to control tax-raisers, that's good, it's a blow to bureaucracy. That is what Amendment No 524 says and I do not think anyone will disagree. Secondly, the special operating signal. We're talking about helping tourism. I am referring to these in summary terms. With Amendment No 522 we overlook the special service which approves environmental conditions and enable a hotel to work before it gets the signal and we help it very much. Is it bad? That's good. Furthermore, a completely human issue was brought by the Ministry of Education for teachers who have a child with special needs. He's good and he's like the multitude. I don't think anyone objects to that. After all, many here are criticising: 'Govern, finally, 'Activity'. I said my objection first - first: SAAP for everyone and everything! And I say it, and I insist. It's over and out. I would like, however, because I have listened, for example, to incredible things about the referendum and various analyses on capital control and so on, to remind me - because I have lived on my side - that no media in the country - of what is being heard, because of what is not sound makes sense - and, unfortunately, global and European, did not say what the referendum was. Because it was me, and I'm still a Europeanist. It was because we didn't accept a particular deal. We may have been wrong, but that's what it was. What went through in the world and what went through throughout the European Union? The absolute distortion that it was 'yes' or 'no' in Europe. This for me, not to use a heavy word, is the definition of total mentality. Say what else happened? I heard things. I have even heard Parliament's representative say: 'Love, we have closed the banks'. Mr. Varoufakis has frustrated this thing. It's an inaccuracy that shouldn't be heard in here. The reason why the banks have closed down I believe that the historian of the future will make it one day: because this government was 'parental' and had to leave, because some have an ownership perception in this country and within this Chamber. I don't characterize myself. I'm telling my opinion. What about the worst? From 8,000 euros, they'd take all the money! I do not understand a totalitarian regime how much worse it makes to convince the citizens? Forgive me for raising the tension. For me, the referendum was a good one, because it has shown, despite all these unfavorable circumstances, that a large part of the world has known who plundered the country for the past 40 years. That was what he knew and that expressed under these circumstances. I am also closing this issue and I want to say two words about Brexit and Europe. I think I have some more time. There was indeed a lot of noise for Great Britain. My opinion is that British tourists are the first to come to our country for those who don't know it. We also thought of this country every Christmas. Many of our children study in Great Britain and in general, we had very good relations with this country. Because we have collected on our side the punishment of some - from the Siomple circles, I say it directly - does not mean that we have to do something similar today. I was pleased to see low tone from all sides, and I welcome this, and not this vengeance, 'You are leaving now to end'. According to Article 50, as you know, it is a timeless process that lasts up to two years. Can I say something? The only thing that was not created in the world is the dissolution of the European Union. Handmade proof is two parts of Great Britain, Scotland and Northern Ireland, which showed the opposite. The British are sorry. I think it was a quick and presumptuous decision. It's not about cutting off the head or saying "go now" and stuff like that. Oh, no! The European Union is much greater than all of us here, and let us be afflicted by this Union and by the Symble cycle. I wish Great Britain could change and remember what I say: It can change, because everyone knows that they only have to benefit from its existence. I would like to believe and end with this, that we - no evils of good, the ancients said - will benefit from this story. We've made too much mistakes. We don't have to talk again. I would also say something: to stop this story 'one of you and one of me'. It reminds me of children at school, "then you called me, now I'll make you, I'll fix you." To end this story, to work together here, in this Chamber, confrontation, differences, hard criticism. I will make an appeal because I see old parliamentarians being a little mutants. Who's preventing you from saying your arguments and proving that the other one is a liar, he's dangerous, he's a persecutor? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Is there any need for that? Why do we need in the national Parliament, in this plenary Chamber, to listen to words that do not relate to aesthetics? It's not only about the Opposition, it's about the Collapsition, is it? Be fair. So I think there should be an attempt to keep the tons down. There is no need to pulsate the climate. We are facing a great challenge. In the country some people don't accept it. I say it, there's been a huge injection of liquidity. Now the hard starts. No one triumphs. See if we can actually capitalise on the fact that we managed to close the assessment, put the debt in front of the table, fight, and lower the big surpluses. I like to hear from Opposition 2% or 1.5%. Yeah, guys, together to work for that, it's not bad. Let us admit, however, both of us and those of us who are no longer helping us. To end this story definitively and irrevocably. I hear extremist expressions, but I don't think you're winning in your own world that listens to you and get tired of those who listen to us. I say again and I am ending - I will not consume any more time, Mr President - that I believe that our position within the European Union has strengthened. All the investments, the way and the actions we have done, and I think that it is up to us, a greater part of this House's Chamber, to help, each in its own way, the country go better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u70	Thank you to Mr Papachristopoulos and to the economy of time. The rapporteur, Mr Metarakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u71	I shall speak from my position, Mr President. I was put in my protology yesterday on the bill and on the chapters, as they had first been tabled to the committee, and I have kept in my second language to be on the amendments. We shall vote against Articles 39 to 41. We have placed ourselves very strongly on Article 41, which creates a photographic provision to recruit a good government as head of the Sivitanide. Minister, I hope that until we get to the vote you will withdraw Rule 41. We shall vote'residences' in Article 42. In Rule 43, until the end of the amendments incorporated into the committee, we shall vote 'no'. For Rule 44, I think Mr Voridis' position was very specific. There is a huge financial responsibility for the state, creating a new generation of contractors, who will come to justice and the civil damage to which the public will be subjected in the current resolution of Article 44 is too great. It breaks down any rule of law. I have heard the ANLE Parliamentary spokesman speak against this article. I want to see whether they will vote because this Rule 44 should not normally be voted on by the Members and should be rejected and I think that would be the right thing to do. I will not go back to the question of Article 53, which has been withdrawn. I think that's covered. I said quite simply, the Government and the SYRIZA MP take the legislative initiative. If the custom is done, that's fine. If it's not for the second year of SYRIZA, it won't be the custom. Let the people of Chios judge it from there. As regards the amendments tabled, they are almost all too late and we would like, Mr President, to put it to the vote after the end of the debate if Parliament accepts, at the very beginning, the introduction of late amendments, as required by the Rules of Procedure. We have done so in recent months and it is automatic that there is a late amendment coming and it is automatically being discussed. There's a procedure. To raise the SYRIZA Members, to see who and by name to take responsibility for the delayed amendments to be debated. In particular, in Amendment No 516 and in Amendment No 38, we are voting 'no'. Firstly, with regard to the issue of travellers, there has been no consultation in the committee, so we do not know what the operators think. So let SYRIZA take responsibility if he thinks this initiative is right for outdoor trade. As far as paragraph 4 of the same law is concerned, you are giving another extension to "Tree Law", because you are unable to do your job properly and bring in the new framework. With the same explanatory statement, you make a 'copy paste' that the people of technology say, from every extension you have given in this regard. The amendment with a general number of 517 and a special 39 on public procurement is a monument of poor legislation. We remove a law before we introduce the new one, so there are gaps in the transitional provisions. I believe, Minister, that it is good to withdraw the amendment under general number 517 and special 39 and put a transitional arrangement, as you like to do for an extension, so that you can bring in the new framework. When we discuss the new framework, which, as has been said, will also incorporate European Union directives, we are pleased to replace the old one. As far as Amendment No 518 is concerned, we will also vote against it because there has been no consultation with the institutions. Also, with Article 4 for the rents of the cauliflower, you are giving the Minister responsible a legislative mandate to determine the conditions of the cauliflower. We would like this to go away and to go into the very article what you want to do so that we do not give a general authority to the issue of cavalier matters, as you know that there is a general sensitivity - I imagine also from the SYRIZA Members - on the issue of sanctuary, because it is ecologically and sensitive. It is good to replace the article with the specific provision you want to enter. Let me now refer to Amendment No 519 and to Amendment No 41. I remember that we were celebrating here in the House when Mr.4321/2015 was voted, because we said that the hays would finally be carved. The Minister was celebrating here. So what do I see here? Upgrade again for eighteen and twelve months! This concept of prolongation has now become a common feature of each piece of legislation. Every bill that comes here, Mr President, has three common features. It creates new state structures, hires people and gives extensions to old laws that cannot be implemented. But that can no longer be accepted. We are therefore voting against this amendment. We will vote'residents' in the amendment with a general number of 520 and a special 42, and in the amendment with a general number of 521 and a special 43. We will vote against Amendment No 522 and specific No 44, Mr Minister, because there has been no consultation with the bodies in the committee and therefore we do not have the opinion of the relevant bodies in principle. If the plenary finally accepts it as a deadline, we will vote against it. We are also voting against Amendment No 523 and on Amendment No 45, and Amendment No 524 and special No 46. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Ioannis Sahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the position of the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, who referred to the fact that all appointments to the public should be made through ASP. We're totally in agreement. But we disagree on one thing. He stated that all of you in here have done so repeatedly. They call you and ask for ruffles. No, that can't be done to us. We have given our voters to understand that such practices never serve and will never serve Golden Dawn. Mr Mitarakis referred to the drop in tourism by 60%. In fact, he said he'd have a bigger fall on Chios island because of rockets. I would like to inform Mr Mitarakis that the cause of the drop in tourism is the flow of illegal immigrants and not the rockets. I would also like to inform him here that we had all the good intention to vote in favour of the amendment it tabled. This, of course, once I declare it officially from Stepma, I think it will prevent the Minister from accepting this amendment at some point. Mr Loverdos quite rightly said that Europe is not being dealt with in this Chamber as it should. There are no discussions on matters that really concern the way in which Europe operates. This seems to be the case with the so-called 'funny vote' in the European elections. He also referred to xenophobia. Do you know how many problems they face in Great Britain? There are whole towns, like Lester and Birmingham, where if a Christian in the religion wants to come out and make an update, that's forbidden. And here we are talking about Great Britain, which you must not forget is a multicultural country. So when this country left the European Union and has closed its borders, you realize how serious problems it will face in the near future and our country will be faced with the closure of the Great Britain border. Because don't forget it was one of the places of destination of illegal immigrants. As far as the consequences of Brexit are concerned, they will be very great in tourism. Already in an announcement, SETE is concerned about these side effects. There are already a large number of cancellations by people who wanted to make their holidays in Greece. Of course, in relation to the devaluation of the English pound and everything that is happening, it makes sense that booking in hotels and mostly in Istanbul, Rhodes, Kos and the Dodecanese will be reduced. However, Brexit has other problems. There are students, who are several in the number, and from Greece and Cyprus studying in England. With a clipboard calculation, it seems that student costs in Great Britain will be about quadruple. The question, however, is what Greece can gain from this story. There is a massive exit from all the automotive industries that are active in Great Britain. Greece, unfortunately, is not one of the countries where these automotive industries are selected because of VAT and a great tax, as well as because there is no stable tax framework. We are not talking about small companies, but about 'Toyota', 'Honda', 'NISSAN', even 'VOLKSWAGEN' and 'BMW'. As you can see, countries such as Slovenia, countries that have recently entered the European Union will benefit completely. We must now move on to another part, to that of our 'friends' - in introductory terms - Germans. The Germans are investing in Russia, after the Russian embargo was imposed on our country. And to speak with numbers, in 2015 they invested 1,78 billion euros, while in the first quarter of 2016 they have already invested 1,1 billion euros and 120 million euros from the company 'CLAAS'. This is a builder of agricultural equipment in Krasnoudar City. So this makes harvesting machines, which we know - since Germany does not produce any cereals - it will sell them very expensively to Greece. Do you remember fresh milk? DMK, Germany's largest dairy industry, acquires its respective competition in Russia. "VITORIA", which is a company that produces pharmaceutical products, invests 30m euros for production plant in the city of Voronez. In other words, those who imposed the embargo on our country are investing in Russia. In other words, they give jobs to a country outside the European Union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Really, what do you not understand in this Chamber? In Greece we can produce everything, from microcultures, due to soil morphology and microclimates, such as lambs, myrtillas, chills, stevia, goat berry,currants. Really, what do you negotiate when you go to Brussels? We have repeatedly said that if you think that the European Union is a family, Greece really suffers domestic violence. And if we are to choose euros or Greece, we Greek nationalists choose Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "Greek Summer Workshop of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-six students and students and a training meeting from the 1st High School of Saints Anargyrus and the Experimental Gymnasium of St. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And now the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Arvanitides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the amendments, I would like to say a few words about Article 28, which abolishes an absurd provision, which you voted on the previous period. Obviously, we agree that shareholders should not have personal responsibility for the insurance contributions of companies. That does not mean, however, that every time you vote unreasonable provisions, without listening to anyone, when we are all pointing them to you, most of us in opposition, we will come back and go into this process to come here to plenary and vote for them, which you have voted for, without listening to anyone. I would now like to refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Education which can be described, not just an amendment, but a mini-legislative bill. I have said so to the committee, and I repeat it today that we will be voting against all your provisions. For the third time within a year you are extending the term of office of school advisors on the grounds that there is no relevant legislative framework for their choice, what you abolished last year and yet you have not replaced. Remove, modify and complete provisions that you yourself introduced and voted about a month ago with Law4386, you change the selection criteria of the School's General Manager, while six months ago a new manager was assigned a three-year term of office. You are modifying the selection criteria of directors and IEK Vice-Presidents, while the selection process of these managers is running on the basis of the existing framework, things are incomprehensible. Repeat the third assignment, a few days after the signature of the ministerial decision to assign courses to the country's high school and high school. Finally, while with one hand you introduce the operation of foreignlanguage departments by public and private training providers, at the same time as the other hand freeze the existing provisions for the operation of such departments in the University of Crete, the Aegean and the Democritus University of Thrace. We are also opposed to Article 44 for individual contracts of cleanliness and storage of the Ministry of Labour. You go hiring from the window, by by circumventing the procedures of the ADP, you can hire staff who will not even have basic rights such as the possibility of obtaining a sick leave. Well, first time, Left. For the first time in service contracts without declaration and without award criteria. " On the contrary, we are positive in Article 45, which extends until October 31, 2016, the work of social structures for the immediate treatment of poverty. The extension is necessary for the continuation of their operation. Unfortunately, however, the way in which they will continue to operate remains unknown. In the right direction, too, is Article 46 which extends the Rapid Action Programme to address the humanitarian crisis. Six months of extension for the grant of rent and feeding, four months of extension for the provision of free of electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate that we as a Democratic Independence have tabled a proposal for a Law on Guaranteed Social Income for four months ago. Unfortunately, this proposal has not been discussed until now, although the Rules of Procedure say that we need to discuss a proposal for a law every month. And, of course, I must remind you that if the original planning of the previous government for the Guaranteed Social Income was respected, it would already have been fully implemented. In Rule 50, we believe that it is right to remove paragraph 2 for rapid tours. We are, of course, waiting for the Legislative initiative of the Ministry of Tourism, which will regulate all the issues of the tour industry. Article 51 is positive, following the model of Athens for outdoor car stations in the historic centre of Patras. Also positive is Article 52 which allows each candidate municipality to establish a public limited company in order to manage the institution of the European Capital of Culture. Finally, Article 49 is also in the right direction to extend the thematic actions and responsibilities of the IRR.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u76	Can I ask you something, Mr. Arvanitidis? In the municipalities where the Capital of Culture is going, is the company defined when will it be dissolved? This has to be defined.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Loverdo, don't interrupt. Please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u78	Maybe it's useful. On this issue, obviously, a company cannot stay and exist, and I think that is something that the Minister should see, who is proposing this with a legislative improvement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Before going to the last minute's amendments, I would like to refer to the question of the ELDR. For many years we have tabled an amendment giving a solution to the problems that exist, so that there can immediately be evidence of damages and compensation procedures for farmers who have been affected. I also told you in committee that there is no micro-policy in this matter as you did with driving licences. I would remind you that you have resolved this with a delay by tabling an amendment identical to the one we have tabled. The issue of ELGA is very serious. How much longer should farmers wait to respond to the basics? A few days ago we had new serious disasters in Arcadia, yesterday she hailed Attica, but you're late. As long as you are delaying all you can do is increase the already great problems that have been created. I now come to Amendment No 516. Here there is the question of the provisions of the 'ENTERPRISE GREECE'. The first two paragraphs of that Article state that, until the liquidation of the Greek External Trade Organisation is completed, any enforcement measure which is compulsory or not shall be prohibited. This practically means that no one can claim any claims from the agency until the liquidation is completed. If this liquidation is over soon, then bad is small. But if the liquidation lasts - already in March 2014 and there are no signs of short integration, and that is a problem. If you do not want this procedure to be kept indefinitely, provide for at least a binding deadline for the completion of the liquidation. On the contrary, we are saying in Amendment 518 that it serves the interests and equilibrium of GATT officials. I now come to Amendment No 519. You have received an important piece of work and the demarcation of the hayal line across the country. To date you have done nothing about it, so you are asking for an extension. We are not opposed to giving it up, but we must be informed by the Minister responsible for the progress of the project, the procedures and the timetable to be completed. Finally, I would like to point out that we are also positive about Amendment 520 for the recovery procedure regardless of unduly paid amounts, Amendment 521 for the modifications to the laws of the NRP, Amendment 522 for the specific trademark for hotel accommodation, Amendment 523 for the extension by one month of the deadline for the certification of energy inspectors and Amendment 524 for the provision of information and information to taxpayers in a number of authorised officials and services. Finally, we will say'residents' to Amendment 517, after you are in the process of abolishing the legal framework for public procurement, because you have unfortunately not succeeded, after sixteen months of governance, to bring in a new legislative framework that you have already promised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syntakakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. In the committee and yesterday at the plenary sitting, we were placed in principle and in the chapters, apart from the chapter on tourism, which, if I may say so, I shall say a few things. I would like to begin by saying in relation to the withdrawal of paragraph 2 of Article 28 by the Minister, saying that this is a vague provision, but it will restore it. We don't have that covered. We would applaud it if the Minister were to say that we are withdrawing Article 28 as a whole, which relieves big shareholders of the company's debts to the insurance funds and also to remove 'when they acted in defiance or negligence' because this actually leads them to the exemption. But he doesn't. We are therefore voting against Rule 28. We've already said that. Secondly, the Golden Dawn is systematically engaged in anti-communism. Besides, Nazism, fascism, anti-communism, they're on their way to a package. But they do not have the courage, they do not have the sincerity, on the one hand they throw this bile of anti-communism to cover their tracks and the advice they give shipowners, the businessmen - who support them in all ways and in funding - and they do not have the courage to come out and say that we support Article 28 because we are flying demands of big business that support us. Now, in relation to the amendments. In Amendment No 499 we declare that we are present. There are provisions that we could vote on. They are the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. However, we have serious doubts about the third assignment of teachers for teaching. That's not the point. The question is how, when will you immediately appoint permanent staff to overcome the difficulties in primary and secondary schools and not to load additional teachings on already educational staff. In Amendment 500 we say 'yes'. But here, let me make a few things clear. It's not right what you're doing. Why? Because in an amendment by the Minister, you are also bringing to an extension of the issues relating to the treatment of poverty, for which we agree, despite any objections, reservations and criticism, we have exercised in this policy of poverty, which actually comes to take from the poor to give the impoverished. At the same time, however, you also include in the same amendment the case of the cleaners of the Ministry of Labour. Here you enter flexible working relationships with an employer - the state itself, by renting a project, providing services. You generalize that in public. You did it in hospitals, where the individual contractor now passes to the state contractor. We are opposed to that logic. But we will only vote on this amendment because it has to do with the issue of dealing with poverty. And I have already explained our view on this. We are opposed to Amendment No 501. It's about the right to practice the tour profession. Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 substantially adapts the legislation on the tour profession to the Euro-Union Directive on professional rights. It abolishes a number of provisions of Law 710/1977 for guides from other countries of the European Union, such as to know Greek culture, history, language, practice in monuments and archaeological sites. We have called for the abolition of the forecast, in force since 2012, to give the right to exercise the tour profession to graduate schools in Philosophy, the Department of History and Archaeology of the HEI after two months of rapid seminars. It should be noted, of course, that this is done on payment of the trainees. It is no longer expressly recognized that the right to exercise will be graduated from OTE Tour Schools. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Allow me, Mr President, a little more time. Moving on to Amendment 500, which concerns the historic centre of the city of Patras, we shall vote on it. In Amendment No 506, which concerns the setting-up of public limited companies for Europe's cultural capital, we say 'no'. Marioris has it all. In 516 we are voting 'at present'. In 517 we are voting 'at present'. We vote against at 518. We are voting against it because, in paragraph 1, it concerns the mobilisation of GDR staff on the basis of Law 4359, it gives them the highest number of molecules. On the one hand, we disagree with the quantification on the basis of evaluation and, on the other, because there is one issue that can only apply to GDR personnel and not be generalized. Paragraph 2 concerns Koumoundourou coast in Microlimano. Let me say this here: if it were to come as a separate amendment, we would vote on it. Except, we'll do it. We agree with the suspension until 30-12-2016 that workers do not lose their jobs, but that the renewal plan should be implemented and attributed to the people of Piraeus. It also brings other provisions with the Attica Coastal Front, which we also disagree. That is why, if paragraph 2 is excluded as a separate amendment, we will vote for it. But as a whole, we are voting against it. In Amendment No 519 we declare that we are present. It gives an extension of time for the caucasians. It is based on hypotension, but it is hypocritical to ensure the public interest, as these are not defined by the Habitats' Limits, but by the policies of a government for the saints. In the present case, the present, like the previous ones, has a commercialisation and use policy in the interest of business groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Synatiakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u82	In Amendment No 520 we are against. In Amendment No 522, which concerns the co-financed NSRP programmes, we are also against. In Amendment No 523, we are opposed. In Amendment No 524, we are voting 'at present'. These are in relation to the amendments. I have not been given the opportunity to speak about the chapter on tourism. We reserve the right to state our position in the vote. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u85	Mrs Marcos, the special speaker from the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u87	Let Mrs Marcus finish and give you the floor. Is there a matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u88	On staff, Mr. President. Mr. Synthrakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u89	Personal to you? Excuse me, he didn't report personal to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u90	I didn't report personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u91	Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u92	It's a political position. There's no personal matter. Here, Mrs Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday I wondered whether he had hit a bell at the Ministry for "Marinopoulos", since there were no published, no balance sheets, no management reports at GEMI. Apparently not. The indifference, if not the hostility of SYRIZA for the productive economy, eventually punishes the weak workers who will now be on the road through the "surprising negotiation" of the charlatan Varoufakis, who charged the country with tens of billions, who stopped the economy and gave the charismatic shot to businesses like "Marinopoulos". I would also like to say that it is unacceptable for the government to introduce a bill - and this is how - into the Committee on Production and Trade when we are discussing another bill in plenary. Where exactly should the Members be? The Senate or here? You tabled an urgent draft law of four hundred and fifty pages, which was posted at 22.30 p.m. last night to be discussed today at 11.00 p.m. You have come to an honest conclusion from the honours of everything that you have come up with in every parliamentary procedure. Of course, from the Members of the SYRIZA, we have not heard a word. You see, it's an emergency. I'm going through the bill now. In view of the pressure of time I shall briefly refer to the articles, since I was also put to the committee yesterday, so that I can say a few words about the amendments. With regard to the first part, which concerns the transposition of the directives, we are voting in favour of Articles 1 to 8. But we call on you to take note of what we said yesterday about the need to improve both the GFCM and the publicity system in general. With the articles concerning our representatives in OECD and Geneva, you're supposed to want to correct what the previous speakers have done. You still do it with half the heart, with micro-improvements, which in essence don't change anything. You'll put your chosen ones back. There's just gonna be a delivery protocol. With regard to Article 14, we consider that the multitude of structures and related services, as well as the extension of the regime for the opaque definition of heads, do not serve the management system and disagree. In Chapter III on the General Secretariat of Industry we agree, although matters remain open, as the institutions have said. Apart from the article on EMEMECH. If there are decisions, execute and comply with the administration. See the report of the Scientific Agency. We agree with Articles 23 to 28 in general. With regard to Chapter V: We are concerned about the issue of limo Article 31. It has also been shown by the discussion with the institutions that it may be possible for this arrangement to come in a hurry, and it requires more processing. For the articles of the Ministry of Education, Mr Mavrotas was placed. We oppose the article on project contracts at the Ministry of Labour. You're building a party army. The same tells you very kindly and the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. Truly, if the needs are not met by those already employed in cleaning, how will you fill vacant posts and with whom? We also disagree with the provision for tour guides. Madam Minister, it is wrong to vote on this provision without having listened to the tour operators in committee. I now come to the amendments. With regard to Amendment No 516, we would like you to explain the following: Firstly, what is the suspension of licences and when will the electronic system be ready? Secondly, as regards the staff of the Greek Foreign Trade Society and the allowances for Sunday and exceptional, so long how did officials go to the exhibitions? With money in their pocket? With regard to Amendment No 517, I will tell you this: When you bring the procurement bill, do away with what you want. Not now. As far as Amendment No 518 is concerned: Article 1 of the amendment will explain to us what effect the process of appointment of Heads of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue will have when it is to be converted into the new Independent Authority of Public Revenue. How are these two connected? With the amendment of a general number 519, you are substantially prolonging the uncertainty as regards the determination of the caucasus by 2018. With regard to Amendment No 520, as regards the reimbursement of unduly paid remuneration, we would prefer that the matter of partial reimbursement should be dealt with directly, rather than a ministerial decision. Nevertheless, we understand the social dimension and we will be voting in favour. Amendment No 521, firstly, why didn't you bring it to the committees? There is already an article on the amendments to Law4314. Secondly, will you explain to us why, since there are rules governing off-site issues, will the Minister determine the distances to be reached, for example, by way of derogation? What's the special need here? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Thirdly, do we read well in paragraph 5 that from the money of the Asylum and Immigration and Internal Security Funds, the money given to deal with the refugee crisis is financed by the 'SEA SA'? Why? Are the resources of the NSRF and the Public Investment Programme not sufficient? In Amendment No 522 you will, in essence, extend the operating mark for hotel accommodation that has not been approved by GDP. Indeed, the procedures may take eight months. With the amendment under general number 523, for the energy inspectors, we agree. With Amendment No 524, which refers to access to tax data, we agree with the fact that there are differences to ensure that this access is to the necessary and only extent. To say here, on the occasion of and on the question I recently put on the issue raised by the tax authorities' access to the disability data, that in particular, the tax administration has access not only to the disability rate, as certified by the CIRRs but also to the underlying illness, without that, of course, being necessary. We would like you to look at this a little bit. Finally, for the parliamentary amendment concerning the special maternity leave for the employees of the Investment and External Trade Company, of course, we agree. However, we do not understand this selective sensitivity to the issues of maternity protection. Really, the cleaners you'll hire to the Ministry of Labour with project contracts, will they get such permissions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mrs Marcus. The reason for this is the Deputy Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr. Jack.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, the improvement of the business environment requires actions aimed at the whole range of economic activity. Business environment is not just financial instruments or liquidity on the market. An entrepreneurial environment is also the simplification of licensing, and market surveillance is generally everything that takes unnecessary obstacles from a natural or legal person who wants to use productive factors in a creative way to create economic value. The aim is, therefore, to produce in any case, but also everything that facilitates the production process. All this, of course, which is, in many cases, a self-evident framework, is not at all self-evident. The obstacles and problems are huge. Healthy entrepreneurship is being hampered many times or, if you like, competition is distorted by companies that do not comply with the rules and therefore do not bear the cost of complying with these rules. These costs, which are also called 'external costs', are dispersed among citizens or consumers, while distorting as I have already said, competition, as companies wrongly transport them to citizens or the environment. Thus, for example, an undertaking operating in a business park is called upon to compete on several occasions in companies that are arbitrarily operating in inappropriate areas, disseminating their costs to the environment and to the citizens themselves. Business parks are a very important tool for industrial development and also for environmental protection. In the context of the industrial policy currently being pursued by the Ministry and in order to further promote the establishment of business parks, changes and improvements to the institutional framework for their establishment and operation are being made. In particular, they were replaced as a justification for the establishment of a business park, the technical pre-studies of infrastructure projects from preliminary studies. We expect this to facilitate and speed up the licensing of business parks, because, as assessed by the Ministry, for the purpose of licensing, it is sufficient for the preliminary studies of infrastructure projects, which in relation to the technical pre-students have less, if you like, both bureaucratic and financial costs. The total area of the business park was also reduced from two thousand to one thousand acres as a necessary condition for the development of the park itself in two phases. The reduction in this area is expected to encourage business park development operators to take relevant sectoral development initiatives and to more flexible, in-depth, burden-sharing of project costs in this difficult economic period. It has also simplified the environmental authorisation of enterprises established in other forms, categories of organised receptors, other than the business parks referred to in Article 3982/2011 which have already been simplified, thus contributing to the elimination of disparities between the different categories of business receptors. This simplification consists in abolishing the submission by undertakings of a series of opinions required for the environmental licensing of the establishments. It was also possible, for objective reasons, to reduce the share of public benefits and the contribution to land for the establishment of a business reorganisation park up to 15%, after, of course, the relevant approval by the Spatial Planning, Settlement and Environment Council of the Decentralised Administration. It is expected that this will facilitate the impossible resolution of the most densely populated sections, of the informal industrial concentrations currently in existence in our country. It also extended to other categories of organised industrial receptors, more than 3982/2011 business parks, the obligation of TA I to provide to the establishments all the contributors, be they cleaning, lighting, communal and garbage collection services and the possibility of concluding contracts with TAs, on the basis of which part or all of these compensation services can be entrusted to the management body of the organised receptor with the corresponding reduction, as you can see, of the municipal fees. This arrangement is expected to contribute precisely to the elimination of inequalities between the different categories of organised receptors. Significant initiatives were undertaken by the Ministry in the framework of the industrial forum. That became important, I would say, proposals on improvements in the relevant institutional framework of business parks. Among these, it has been proposed to extend the possibility of allowing organised receptors only, the possibility of setting up new middle-health activities in the Attica region that is currently banned. This proposal, in our view, is based on the basis of the fact that the organised receptors have all the necessary technical infrastructures to reduce the environmental impact of the operators established in them. This proposal therefore ensures the environment and will also have beneficial effects on the national economy after facilitating the establishment of new businesses. It is therefore considered with the co-responsible ministries in order to promote this regulation. In addition to the improvements to the institutional framework of business parks, Article 19 proposes an amendment to Article 16 of Law 3328/2005, concerning the modernisation of existing Attica average nuisance activities. This amendment seeks to recast and clarify the provisions, because the current wording prevents the modernisation of medium-purpose units in Attica, both in the areas of general residence, where the establishment of medium-purpose units is not provided for by land use, but also in the other categories of land use under Article 16(4) of Law 3325/2005. From this point of view, many plants had already been in a bad state, even at the closure of their activities. The proposed change restores the prestigious situation in the institutional framework of modernisation and will help the processing units of Attica, which, despite the difficult environment, are making every effort to survive, modernise and overcome the serious economic crisis that our country is facing, without, however, having an extra burden on the environment. An amendment is also made to Article 22 of Law 3982/2011. This regulation provided for the eighteen-month period for technical reconstruction, which at present is considered too small, as factors such as bureaucracy and modern procedures sometimes delay the removal of incompatibility without always being the responsibility of the investor. It is therefore proposed from Article 22 that the period for technical reconstruction should be twenty-four months. It is also proposed to add a further extension of the deadline in order to avoid the closure of activities because they have not been able to obtain an authorisation, for example with a certificate of protection. It is noted that this is a function which, despite the incompatibility identified, does not pose a direct risk, neither for environmental protection nor for the safety of workers and residents, in accordance with the express provision of Article 22. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law we are debating today, four provisions on technical professions are being proposed. In Article 15(1), there is a provision enabling the professional to take part in an examination for the issue of the authorisation of his or her interest, provided that he or she has the appropriate conditions and supporting documents outside the region concerned if the latter has an objective failure to carry out such examinations. The amended provision only provided that the relevant committee of inquiry had not been set up in its region by transferring any other objective weaknesses of the administration, such as the lack of an appropriate logistics infrastructure to carry out the examinations. This distortion is now lifted by the imported modification and, after it has been triggered by the adoption of the relevant CSM, professionals from the relevant hostage. Article 16 concerns the extension of, until 31/12/2016, the time limit for replacing old licences with the relevant new licences, i.e. the scheme provided for by Law 3982/2011, to five categories of technical professionals, plumbers, project operators, the combustion of liquids and gas, and the practical engineering and related specialities, as well as refrigerating equipment. It is noted that this extension was made following a general request from most associations and associations of professionals, as well as a number of private requests from professionals and positive suggestions from the licensed authorities of regional self-government, as they of course became aware of our service and after cooperation with them. Article 17 concerns the correction of apparent deficiencies in the replacement of an existing electrician maintenance licence and procedures for the replacement of existing refrigerating licences respectively. To date, this possibility of replacing an old licensed electrician was not allowed because of the lack of provision in the relevant law. This shortage is now corrected by the proposed modification, according to which the old electrical conservator licenses are replaced by the corresponding new licenses of the electrical installer. Corresponding deficiencies were identified and the provisions regulating the procedures for replacing the old authorisations of the refrigerant, since these had remained uncertain for longer than three years. The relative shortage is now resolved by this addition. Also, in the draft law that is being discussed today and proposed for vote, it is proposed that the time of adaptation - the time of compliance - be extended to industrial-industrial bakery production facilities and to bakeries already installed and operated legally before the entry into force of Law 3526/2007, until 31 March 2017. Because given the difficulty of compliance and the difficult economic situation, a large number of these undertakings would have to comply immediately with all the requirements of the bakery legislation, in particular companies that have already begun the relevant procedures and have not been able to complete them within the express deadline of the two years provided for in the previous law. I also said to the committee, and I will repeat, that in this period, by 31-3-2017, and in the context of the wider attempt to simplify the licensing procedures, the question of the operation of bakery activities will generally be considered by our Ministry in order to provide the best possible solution for this very important industry and the Greek economy. As regards Article 20: This provision of the law gives what had been given and Article 35(1) of Law 4210/2013. What did this provision actually provide for? That compensation shall be paid as a result of the termination of the contracts of staff of the EMMDDA and of the ECB by the clearers in part, in accordance with the provisions of the existing legislation. And if the product of liquidation is not sufficient to pay the compensation for these workers, the public will be involved by supplementing the relevant funds. With Article 20, what do we do? In fact, we extend the option provided for in Article 35(1) of Law 4210/2013 to that category of workers of the EMO's subsidiaries who had applied for retirement at the time of the liquidation pending the payment of such compensation. I would like to repeat - and I have told the committee - that there are final decisions which cannot be executed, because it is precisely because EMOMMECH has no property.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u96	Ms. Jackie, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u97	I shall conclude, Mr President. I should like to say that this is essentially a set of regulations which we are doing precisely because we want to solve a number of problems that had been accumulated in the operation of businesses and also of the self-employed. I think it is self-evident that the fight should be given to the Ministry of Development to resolve issues, but also to prevent outbreaks that create new problems. This is where the bill is being put in motion, which is being proposed for vote and debated on the articles, and I think it will be voted on by this House. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. We are giving the floor to the Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr Stathakis, to close the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, as if it had not been a day. In short, the opposition - the large majority - felt today that it had to make anniversary speeches, one year after the referendum, one year after the capital control and once again in the weakness, which it has in historical terms, namely its ability to recall and set up a series of events, events, much more in its inability to analyse them. And I say 'as if it did not pass one day', because it repeats exactly the same arguments that it had repeated on the week of the referendum, the week before the elections or the month before the September elections. In any case, as if neither happened, it continues to repeat it today. Miraculous historian! Article 1: ‘Capital controls have been imposed by the Government, not by the European Central Bank’. I repeat, it will be historically unprecedented, the capital controls enforced by a government voluntarily. He has no historical precedent. The New Democracy insists that the government has imposed them, and even consciously. No historical evidence can be found in this. Second misleading history: The challenge of the referendum was exiting Europe and the euro. It turned out in fact that it was not. Third misleading history: we were threatened, and now that the programme was interrupted, there would be various scary things. The program was under negotiation. After the referendum, in due course, the new agreement was made, which may not like today some of them, but it was better than what had been proposed - that was the question of the referendum - and it was voted in full, the great majority of those who think it is not good. Fourthly, misleading history is the cost of this process. They repeat EUR 86 billion monotonously. We've been through it a hundred times. The arithmetic is simple. For once, I would remind you that 50 billion is refinancing old debts with a new debt. You have to remove them. Unless you considered that the 50 billion refinanced and related to loans from 2015 until 2021 we should pay them now and not on a five-year basis. So remove the EUR 50 billion from the EUR 86 billion. Remove all 25 billion that we didn't need for the banks. We needed 5 billion euros. Is my arithmetic good? EUR 70 billion, therefore, from 86 billion, is not for this purpose. I will continue my arithmetics to get to 86 billion, putting what is to be paid to the private and so on. So the arithmetic of 86, I repeat, doesn't work. There is also a discouraging of many things from what the opposition was saying at the time on the eve of the referendum. Who should I first remember? The forthcoming 'cut' of the deposits, which was the head of the spear of its policy towards the referendum? Remember the collapse of the economy that was going to come in 2015? The results, unfortunately, are in the other direction. For once, I would remind you that the capital controls were a negative development, quite clearly. It wasn't our choice. Immediately after their imposition - that is what the Anti-Population - the government has done well and quickly, in cooperation with and with the right institutions, the Bank of Greece and others, in order to minimise the impact, if possible. And that's what happened. I would remind you that the capital controls were in the middle of the tourist season and in three weeks basically all the restrictions had been lifted to everything that had to do, firstly, with the movement of tourist exchange, airlines, tourist agencies and so on. Secondly, all restrictions on all imports, which were linked to... [[At this point the closing bell of the Secretary-General's speech hits the warning.]] Give me two minutes, please. Thirdly, all the restrictions on the shipping exchange, fourthly, the country's exports, fifthly, to all development banks, and so on, were lifted. What do I mean by that? I would like to say that the system has been automated as far as possible, precisely in order to minimise the impact. Therefore, from the result, judging the reduction of these effects also led to the positive footprint of 0% recession in 2015 and normalisation of the economy as far as possible. The last point is history again. In spite of all the things that have been repeated on all sides, the opposition cannot dispute that the present government had the sincerity, bravery, the openness to go to the citizens after the agreement and to hold elections in September in order to have a clear relationship with the Greek citizens who voted for us. You can't remove that from us. No one can remove it. We went with the agreement, we went with the roadmap of how to implement the agreement, with the pros and all the difficulties and the positive and non-agreements of this agreement, and we took a fresh order. We cannot remove that and we will be judged and will continue to judge whether what we promised in these elections with this data is being implemented. We're doing our best for what we promised. The agreement is implemented with a correct roadmap, which we have literally respected. And that closed with the first evaluation. Secondly, we are doing our best for promises of significant changes in the Greek society, which we are observing and will complete a step - step by step, as is today's draft law that introduces several modernisations in a number of areas of the Greek public sphere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u100	A net order is a hundred and fifty Members. They're not 30 so much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u101	I would like to focus on two - three points, which have also been raised in today's debate and which concern amendments. I have asked before, before, for the withdrawal of Verodos's issue of no political controversy, because it is not a political controversy. I repeat. The wording as it is here is unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u102	Let's fix it now, Minister, as Mr. Dendias suggested. If it's not a political matter, we can fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u103	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u104	Don't interrupt, Mr. Metarakis. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u105	Since New Democracy has raised tons, considering that it is a lower-level political confrontation, a field of retaliatory behaviour for the criticism that you are making in "AUGI" or elsewhere I repeat - I said it before - that we are withdrawing it, because its wording is inconsistent with the existing institutional framework. The current institutional framework is clear. I repeat it once again from the Step so that there is no slight misunderstanding: the concept of custom cannot be left to ministerial decisions. The law is universal and the exceptions and applications of custom legislation must comply with the rule of law strictly, must be specific, clear and well-defined and should be regulated by law. In the general sense of the criterion, that a custom is applied from generation to generation, there is insufficient criterion for this House to legislate. Therefore, confrontation is not essentially - I repeat - but is about the legal way in which this provision is formulated. Secondly, there is a lively criticism, which can hardly be founded on by a party state and an effort by the government to build armies of party officials in the wider public and goes by saying. For the time being, I would remind you that this government has not been recruited to the public, but only less than that provided for by the agreement with Europeans and institutions. I repeat for once: recruitment in the public sector is less, marginally less than the ones provided for in the Agreement with the Institutions. So the ideology of party armies we're preparing is not true. In addition, the dispute between the Ministry of Labour and other Ministries concerns the renewal of private contracts. The government's position is that we are more friendly in the idea of other types of cleaning contracts. We must also be sure that these conventions observe all the legal facts in order to avoid the slightest suspicion that they are a field of party influence. These are project contracts, however, they are specific, so Mr Voridis' argument regarding permanent and permanent is not valid. They're not contracts of employment. Therefore, this criticism also has its limits. Third point. I insist on the question to the Potami: what do you disagree with the arrangements for the Permanent Greek Representation of the OECD? I really want to figure it out. We have a system with no rule, where we have permanents who have been there for 15 years, a system is now coming which says that what is happening to AACs in Brussels also applies here, in accordance with rules, transparency and so on. and the Potami insists that this is not a positive step, that it is another party terminology of the SYRIZA. In fact, I wonder on this point, but also on other inaccuracies. I didn't mean to hurt it, but it's inaccurate. I don't think I'm getting any money from the way I'm organizing my immigration service. He's getting sick. He doesn't get any money from there. It's not getting anywhere. There are other points of criticism which, in order to be the subject of a stronger debate, should have been raised directly. I now close with one point on the amendments I tabled as ministerial. I have to make it clear - because the issue was raised 'if there are bodies', 'no dialogue has taken place with operators' - that the whole of the amendments to tourism, etc. is a request either from bodies or from debates that have been preceded by them, and I therefore do not think they are in breach of any of these strong rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Stathakis. They asked for the floor to be postponed, and we agreed for two minutes the parliamentary representatives. We shall begin with Mr Dendia, then Mr Loverdos, then Mr Arahovitis, perhaps, who will close the series of parliamentary representatives. I do not know if another parliamentary representative wants, as we are going to start now, to intervene for two minutes. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, I will observe the two minutes completely and thank you. He didn't convince me, and I don't think he convinced anyone, I dare say even himself, the Minister's dentistry. First of all, there is a lot of discussion, but I am just saying that Article 53 is not the case. The Scientific Committee itself proposes the wording of Article in two paragraphs, which fulfils the conditions of the law. And if the Minister really wanted to, he could adopt it. And if she didn't want to adopt it, we have provided him with our own legal support, so that we can make a recast of the article. It is clear that for reasons of the government, which did not explain to us - because I am not convinced of what he has told us - he does not want it. I was disturbed, however, not to say he made me much more saddened, and his position on the issue of racist recruitment, which presupposes and prescribes the legislation which it introduces, that is to say, Article 41 and Article 44. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that both these articles are disgraceful there is no doubt, as there is no possibility of support. So the Minister, who does not defend the articles, that is to say, the right of a minister to recruit for cleaning services for anyone who wants, with a contract that is unreserved as a project lease and creates a new set of contractors, which will start a new series of actions, like the phenomena that we have seen before the Ministry of Finance. These eventually turned into officials of the Ministry of Justice, through the dark passages of perception of the right, which SYRIZA, Minister, and the SYRIZA - ANEL government. So we come here and what are you telling us? Yes, we're hiring rhyphenologically - that's not what you're saying, but by silence you're not contradicting it - but we haven't hired any syspherics for those who were left by the troika, we've hired a little less. That's a good argument, Minister! It's very convincing, really. To hire the rest of you, then, rhyphetologically, do not leave any gaps for anyone else. Involve rusphetologically as many as you want. That doesn't make sense. SYRIZA - ANEL Government is causing society, the society of 25% unemployed and 50% unemployed in the new generation. This must not be the case, ladies and gentlemen. And I tell you, I have repeatedly told you that previous governments have also made mistakes. But, unfortunately, you are deepening and magnifying the mistakes. You mustn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u109	As far as I understand it, I may have lost something from the course of the debate - the amendment to change public procurement, the legal framework, that is, no one supported it, no one analysed it. Mr President, at the Conference of Presidents we will be saying this shortly. There are amendments coming and they go unsupported by the majority. You don't know them. This is the situation, based on the fact that some issues are also dangerous. Why, may the majority, unprecedentedly, have voted for something that afterward regrets. We must take the decision at the Conference today to stop this process of mini-project laws, which come in the form of an amendment and go through the House, without having paid the slightest guarantee of good legislation. Mr Aravantidis, our representative, has made every provision of the law and every amendment of concrete interventions and has announced our position. I would like to insist on something that man has said and about education. Do you realize what the third assignment is? He told you. Do you realize what the third assignment is? Do you realize what you were saying about the second assignment of teachers? Do you remember them? The third assignment hasn't come in years. Do you remember what you were saying? Do you remember them? How do you vote? We stress it, and Mr Arvanitides and I, to at least get into your ears, you of the majority, who do not understand. For the companies of the municipalities claiming the Capital of Culture, you do not specify, Minister, precisely when they do not take the assignment, when companies are dismantled. It says this incrediblely malicious argument is'solved immediately'. What does it mean "directly"? Immediately means without mediation. He doesn't even say right away. It says 'instantly'. To say: in one month's time not to take up the presidency, not 'directly'. To say: within one month of the non-allocation of those of the Capital of Culture. Finally, the Minister for Development had to say a word - instead of what he said about capital controls - about the closure of businesses. He is the Minister of Development and closes "Marinopoulos", closes one company behind the other and talk. You're welcome, Mrs. Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u110	Mrs. Marku, don't worry about the Minister. Keep going, Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u111	It is not possible for the Minister for Development to tell us here about the amendments and how the cleaning services will be hired at the Ministry of Labour - it is a carbon with the Ministry of Health, what the Ministry of Health has done, and the Ministry of Labour repeats it - and not tell us about the basics. Minister, we don't have a short memory. Our memory is good. I would remind you of the referendum debate that took place a year ago in this Chamber, our own remarks. "Do you have regard to the attitude of the European Central Bank? Have you come to an understanding? Do you keep in mind what the possibility is? Do you know what will happen?’ Yes, we were told by the ministers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The next day at noon, we had the excitement with the great minister who closed the banks. And today, after a year, the problem of Mr Stathakis is that it became the ar or the b, instead of the fact that the banks are now a year with capital control and no one knows when to end? And he does not remember - since he wants to do the infiltration in history - his Prime Minister who said he did the wrong assessment, that he did not believe that the European Central Bank would consider the programme and Greece to be interrupted outside the programme? Don't he remember that? He has to remember them. He must remember them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u112	Come on, Mr. Loverdo. Please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u113	I'm hanging up. It is because of them that the economy exists. And when you have a year of Capital Controls and when you don't know when your economy will inspire confidence so you won't be afraid of further bleeding your banking system out of the deposits, then how do you show up in the Greek Parliament and say? How about the Greek economy? For your business that closes, you don't have a point of view. You don't have a memory for your story. What do you want to tell us? That you're happy you got that feat in the banking system?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u114	Come on, Mr. Loverdo, let's close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I am closing up with what I have been saying since yesterday with great insistence. The Conference of Presidents today and your party and all parties must be brought to an end to the issue of the amendments. Rain modifications at this level have not been made before. We have to stop because the National Representation is at risk from her defamation. It's a recent memory of offshore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u116	Mr Loverdos, you have said so in your prototype and in your dentext, as far as the Conference of Presidents is concerned. At 15: 00 we have a Conference of Presidents. I would remind you that the vote on waivers of immunity will begin at 14.00 noon. Until then, we must conclude with the speeches or any interventions and the vote on this draft law that we are discussing will also be taking place. I warn you about the times. As far as - and I close with this - the Conference of Presidents is concerned, there has been much discussion and, of course, once again the issue of the amendments will be discussed. Mr. Arachovitis has the floor to close. You have two minutes. Please respect the time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u117	Yes, Mr President, for two minutes. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing today's sitting we should put together the House, all the wings, to express the condolences to the families of the victims at Istanbul Airport. We also want to express our support for the terrorist attack in the neighbouring country. Blindly terrorist blows to innocent citizens are condemned and there are no reliances and excuses either on the terrorists and the causes that are provoking them, nor on the victims, citizens or states that by their policy they are provoking violence. The solutions must always be political. I will only stand on two or three points, because I don't have time. For the control of funds - which has been debated a great deal - we must remember that no one has argued that the situation was a pleasant thing. However, the departure of capital was avoided in those days, the deposits were protected, there was no defect in deposits, such as in Cyprus, which many might wish to do in those days. Unlike the Civic Opposition, which, with irresponsible declarations from its officials, caused capital outlets and led to the need to recapitalisation the banks, paid by Greek taxpayers, the government managed the effects of capital control, which were not recorded in the macroeconomic indicators of the economy. Finally, I would like to focus on the New Democracy arguments to defend the withdrawn Article 53. The logic of my colleague's revenge, because of alleged revelations, unfortunately makes me think that the odds are judged themselves. Away from us, that makes sense. The Minister adequately explained that he does not disagree with the substance of the matter, but with how to legislate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u118	Why doesn't he fix it then?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u119	He said that the matter would be brought back in a way that would be legally correct.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u120	Do you commit?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u121	Almono, the Minister is committed. The Minister said so anyway. Finally, for Article 44, where there has been a lot of talk about the contracts of the Ministry of Labour, about the awards directly to natural persons working or working in cleaning or storage, take note of two things: firstly, we are not talking about appointments, but about individual rental contracts for work or services up to 31/12/2017 for already workers or former workers in these posts. Secondly, that, where this was applied to the Ministry of Health first, it had a double advantage, both for the workers, who have clearly received a greater pay than through the contractors and for the State body, who has chosen this form and for the state budget. Certainly, in any case, we do not agree on direct appointments and the phenomena of the CEDEFOP are far from us. But, in this particular case, until we have the possibility of standing and constant needs being met in the way that we have to achieve a double benefit, and that is what we have to respect at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Arachovite. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset, Articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Articles 19, 20, 29, 30, 33, 35, 40 to 46 of Directive 2013/34/EU on ‘the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related business reports of certain types, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC’ (EU. L 189 of 29 June 2013) and Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU. L 330/1 of 15 November 2014) ‘amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards the disclosure of non-financial information and information on the diversity of certain large enterprises and groups’ and other provisions of the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u123	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u124	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u125	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u126	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u127	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u128	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u129	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u130	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u131	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Articles 19, 20, 29, 30, 33, 35, 40 to 46 of Directive 2013/34/EU concerning ‘the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related business reports of certain types, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC’ (OJ. L 189 of 29 June 2013) and Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU. L 330/1 of 15 November 2014) ‘amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards the disclosure of non-financial information and information on the diversity of certain large enterprises and groups’ and other provisions of the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Their vote will be taken separately. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u132	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u133	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u135	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u136	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u137	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u138	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u139	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u140	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u141	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u142	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u143	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u144	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u145	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u146	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u147	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u148	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u149	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u150	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u151	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u153	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u154	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u155	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u156	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u157	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u158	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u159	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u160	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u161	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u162	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u163	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u164	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u165	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u166	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u167	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u168	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u169	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u170	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u171	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u172	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u173	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u174	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u175	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u176	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u177	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u178	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u179	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u180	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u181	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u182	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u183	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u184	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u185	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u186	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u187	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u188	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u189	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u190	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u191	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u192	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u193	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u194	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u195	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u196	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u197	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u198	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u199	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u200	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u201	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u202	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u203	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u204	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u205	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u206	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u207	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u208	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u209	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u210	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u211	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u212	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u213	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u214	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u215	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u216	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u217	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u218	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u219	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u220	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u221	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u222	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u223	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u224	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u225	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u226	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u227	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u228	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u229	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u230	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u231	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u232	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u233	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u236	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u237	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u239	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u240	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u241	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u242	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u243	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u244	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u245	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u246	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u247	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u248	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 14 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u249	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u250	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u251	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u252	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u253	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u254	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u255	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u256	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u257	Article 14 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u258	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u259	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u260	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u261	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u262	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u263	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u264	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u265	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u266	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u267	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u268	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u269	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u270	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u271	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u272	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u273	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u274	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u275	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u276	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u277	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u278	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u279	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u280	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u281	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u282	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u283	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u284	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u285	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u286	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u287	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u288	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u289	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u290	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u291	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u292	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u293	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u294	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u295	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u296	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u297	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u298	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u299	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u300	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u301	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u302	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u303	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u304	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u305	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u307	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u308	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u309	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u311	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u312	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u313	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u314	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u315	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u316	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u317	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u318	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u319	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u320	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u321	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u322	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u323	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u325	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u326	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u327	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u328	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u329	Article 22 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u330	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u331	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u333	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u334	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u335	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u336	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u337	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u338	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u339	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u340	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u342	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u343	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u344	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u345	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u346	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u347	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u348	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u349	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u351	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u352	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u353	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u354	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u355	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u356	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u357	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u358	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u360	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u361	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u362	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u363	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u364	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u365	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u366	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u367	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u368	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u369	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u370	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u371	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u372	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u373	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u374	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u375	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u376	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u377	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u378	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u379	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u380	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u381	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u382	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u383	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u384	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u385	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u386	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u387	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u388	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u389	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u390	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u391	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u392	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u393	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u394	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u395	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u396	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u397	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u398	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u399	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u400	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u401	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u402	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u403	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u404	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u405	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u406	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u407	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u408	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u409	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u410	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u411	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u412	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u414	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u415	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u416	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u417	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u418	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u419	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u420	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u421	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u423	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u424	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u425	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u426	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u427	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u428	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u429	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u430	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u432	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u434	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u435	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u436	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u437	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u438	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u439	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u440	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u441	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u442	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u443	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u444	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u445	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u446	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u447	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u448	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u449	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u450	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u452	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u453	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u454	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u455	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u456	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u457	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u458	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u459	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u460	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u461	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u462	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u463	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u464	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u465	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u466	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u467	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u468	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u469	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u470	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u471	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u472	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u473	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u474	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u475	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u476	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u477	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u478	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u479	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u480	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u481	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u482	Article 39 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u483	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u484	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u485	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u486	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u487	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u488	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u489	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u491	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 41 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u492	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u493	Proceedings of the Court of First Instance
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u494	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u495	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u496	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u497	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u498	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u499	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u500	Article 41 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u501	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u503	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u504	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u506	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u507	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u509	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u510	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u511	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u512	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u513	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u515	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u516	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u517	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u518	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Question No 44, by Mr Ephremidis (H-0427/93) Subject: The European Union's relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u519	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u520	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u521	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u522	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u524	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u525	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u526	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u527	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u528	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u529	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u530	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u531	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u532	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u533	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u534	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u535	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u536	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u537	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u538	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u539	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u540	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u541	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u542	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u543	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u544	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u545	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u546	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u547	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u548	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u550	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u552	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u553	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u554	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u555	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u556	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u557	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u558	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u559	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u560	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u561	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u563	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u564	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u565	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u566	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u567	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u568	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u569	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u570	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u571	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u572	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u573	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u574	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u575	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u576	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u577	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u578	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u579	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u580	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u581	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u582	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u583	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u585	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u586	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u587	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u588	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u589	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u590	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u591	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u592	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u593	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u594	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u595	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u596	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u597	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u598	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u599	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 53 shall be deleted. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 516 and a special number of 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u600	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u601	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u602	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u606	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u608	So the amendment under general number 516 and a special 38 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of No 517 and a special number of 39?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u609	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u610	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u611	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u614	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u615	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u616	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u617	So the amendment under general number 517 and a special 39 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of number 518 and a special number of 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u618	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u619	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u620	Here you go, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u621	Amendment No 518 and all the others are late. Parliament shall be entitled to introduce them under Rule 74(5) if the House so decides. I have also requested in my speech that the House vote by voting on the amendments should it accept the delayed amendments as required by Rule 74(5). We cannot proceed with the vote before this prerequisite occurs. Let us also apply the Rules of Procedure once! It would be a good change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u622	Mr Metarakis, the late amendments to which you refer have been accepted by the Minister. There is therefore no question of this in the vote that we are already and continue. Of course, please express your opinion. Of course, your vote will also be recorded from there, if it is negative, positive or in the'represent' or in the white, as you think it is. So I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u623	Mr President, I will read the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u624	Mr Metarakis, this presupposes another procedure and it does not now. Please do not interrupt the procedure now. It is already just two or ten, and we have another immunity sitting and we also have a Conference of Presidents. The Conference of Presidents is very happy to open this issue and discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u625	Mr President, there is no need for another procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u626	Please. Please. I think I made myself clear with what I told you. Since the amendment was accepted by the Minister and put to the vote, it expresses your position by voting. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u627	Mr President, the Rules of Procedure says that the House is taking a decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u628	We shall continue the vote. Mr Metarakis, you cannot interrupt the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u629	Mr President, can I not apply the Rules of Procedure of the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u630	You cannot interrupt the vote. We're in a process. Read the relevant Rule of the Rules of Procedure regarding the vote and come and tell me whether or not you have to interrupt it. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u631	Tell me what article to read.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u632	I repeat. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of number 518 and a special number of 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u633	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u634	We think it's non-existent. Abstentions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u635	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u636	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u637	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u638	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u639	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u641	So the amendment under general number 518 and a specialist of 40 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 519 and a special number 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u642	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u643	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u644	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u645	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u646	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u647	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u648	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u650	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 519 and a special 41 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 520 and a special number 42, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u651	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u652	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u654	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u655	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u656	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u657	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u659	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 520 and a special 42 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under general number 521 and a special number of 43 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u660	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u661	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u662	Proceedings of the Court of First Instance
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u663	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u664	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u665	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u666	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u667	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u668	So the amendment under general number 521 and a special 43 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 522 and a special figure 44 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u669	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u670	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u671	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u672	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u673	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u674	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u675	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u676	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u677	So the amendment under general number 522 and a special 44 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 523 and a specialist of 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u678	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u679	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u680	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u681	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u682	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u683	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u684	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u685	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u686	So the amendment under general number 523 and a special 45 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 524 and a special number of 46 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u687	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u688	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u689	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u690	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u691	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u692	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u693	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u694	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u695	So the amendment under general number 524 and a special 46 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of number 514 and a special number of 37?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u696	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u697	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u698	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u699	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u700	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u701	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u702	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u703	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u704	So the amendment under general number 514 and a special 37 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u705	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u706	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u707	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u708	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u709	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u710	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u711	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u713	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Articles 19, 20, 29, 30, 33, 35, 40 to 46 of Directive 2013/34/EU concerning ‘the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related business reports of certain types, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC’ (OJ. L 189 of 29 June 2013) and Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU. L 330/1 of 15 November 2014) ‘amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards the disclosure of non-financial information and information on the diversity of certain large enterprises and groups’ and other provisions of the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism’ was accepted in principle and on the articles. It shall be postponed for another sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should suspend the sitting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u714	With the consent of the House, the sitting is suspended for ten (10') minutes. In accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, applications for waiver of immunity will be debated. Discontinue for 10 minutes (10 minutes).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u715	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION REQUESTS FOR APPROVAL OF BULGARIA Discussion and decision, pursuant to Rules 62 of the Constitution and 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Phili, Mr Miltiades Varvitsiotis, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos and Ilia Kasiliaris. The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 23-6-2016, according to which members of the Committee unanimously proposed that Mr Nikolaos Friendy's immunity should not be waived. The report was also announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 23-6-2016, according to which members of the Committee unanimously proposed that Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis be refused immunity. The same committee announced the report on 23-6-2016 that the members of the committee proposed to waive the immunity of Mr Nicholas Michalliakos and Ilia Kasidiaris. Under Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the House does not deal with the substance of the cases, but only investigates whether the act on which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity, or whether persecution or harassment conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hand or by reopening the request of the public prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(2). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have agreed on applications for waiver of immunity that the House should decide by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote, in which each colleague lists his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs, will be recorded in the respective minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns Mr Nikolao Phile. My second colleague, Mr Miltiadis Vartsiotis, and his third colleague, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos and Ilias Kasiriaris. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u716	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u717	You're welcome, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u718	Mr President, unfortunately I find myself in a difficult position to argue for self-evident issues. I agree with the committee's proposal. I would like to say that it is wrong to turn political or scientific disputes into criminal persecution. I have explained from the outset that as Minister I am serving the official view of the state on these issues. I believe that the whole debate on this issue, following clear clarifications and commitments, is a debate that does not serve national policy, but does not serve the country's democratic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u719	Thank you, too. Is there a colleague on the second request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Is there a colleague on the third request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u720	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u721	Here you go, Mr. Cassidy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u722	Here, first of all, the unprecedented situation is that I have lost the count of immunity that this House has imposed on me here. When the two-digit number of waivers of immunity has exceeded my two-digit number - so that I do not add up the waivers of immunity to all Members of the Golden Dawn - I have stopped counting them. You are trying, in other words, by criminalising a party's political action to limit your political and electoral rise. Of course, all these waivers of immunity - plus today - are all illegal. I have been happy to present myself in this Chamber with documentary insensitive and vigilant evidence that persecution against us is all political. I have shown the Secretary General of the previous government in videos saying that persecution is political. I have presented the orders given by the Prime Minister to be imprisoned by Members of the Golden Dawn. And yet, despite the fact that our persecutions are political here, this House is continuing to make these waivers of immunity, the House is conceding on other occasions, such as Friend and Varvitsiotis today, identifying New Democracy and SYRIZA, united and persecuted by the Members of the Golden Dawn and all others are being exonerated. With regard to this case-file, one thing I will say is to understand the people who listen to us how much this game is, the criminalisation of our political struggle. Nikolaos Michaloliakos on the day that he was alleged to have committed, says, the offence of slandering defamation was in prison, no public reason! He could not come here to speak his opinion and vote and operate a Parliament with two hundred and ninety Members. So he appears to have committed a crime through the prison. I'm saying this, so the last Greek citizen can understand how much this game is. It is set up and all political forces, New Democracy and SYRIZA, and that seems to be the case. Here a minister has committed a serious crime, and I am talking about the refusal of the Pontian genocide. There was a civil lawsuit, as well as Golden Dawn MPs. Of course, we made the mistake of doing this lawsuit on the Arena Ice, so he disappeared and locked himself in a drawer. This crime is haunted. It is not what Friends said earlier that they are scientific opinions. The elevation of the memory of the Greeks of Pontian Hellenism who suffered genocide is not a scientific view, it is a criminal offence, even on the basis of the anti-racist law that all the forces of the anti-constitutional arch voted unitedly. You come to us today and again reinstate our immunity. It's an honor, of course. I've been to all the courts, I've been acquitted. In all the trials you set me up, I went to all of them, I was acquitted to everyone. That's how it's going to happen now. However, it is a criminal thing that a Minister who exalts the memory of the Greeks, cleans him up and acquits him. If he was a man, let him go to court to prove he's innocent or not. He's guilty, and his guilt will come a day when we'll prove it when we're in things. Such crimes against Greek history will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u723	Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Any colleague who votes for the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference by the name of the Member and in the column 'NAI', that is to say, 'NAI' to the prosecutor's request for the waiver of immunity. Any colleague who votes against the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference by the name of the Member and in the 'OHIM' column. Any colleague who votes for the 'PPE' vote will take it in the corresponding column of the vote. Every Member of Parliament will be named, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs and will sign it, because the vote is rolled out in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Subsequently, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver his vote to colleagues, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, from SYRIZA and Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the voting protocol in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u724	The House unanimously agreed. I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament are invited on the list. Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Ioannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u725	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u726	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u727	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members. A total of 192 Members voted. For my colleague, Mr Nikolao Friends: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 25 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', of 167 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. For Mr Miltiadis Varvichiotis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 18 Members voted. Against the abolition of immunity, i.e. 'NO', they voted 173 MPs. White: 1. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. For my colleague Mr Vassiliou Michaloliaco: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 172 MPs. Against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 19 Members voted. He voted for an MEP. The request of the Prosecutor is therefore admissible for the waiver of his immunity. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Insert Protocol p. 234a and the 234b ballots]] For my colleague, Ilias Cassidy: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 172 MPs. Against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 19 Members voted. He voted for an MEP. The request of the Prosecutor is therefore admissible for the waiver of his immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u728	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-29-S1-commons.u729	With the consent of this House at 15.12' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 30 June 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the proceedings of this House: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda to be distributed.
