ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, let me make two announcements to this House. The President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the MPs of his party submitted on 8-4-2016 a proposal for a law: "Exercise of the electoral right during the parliamentary elections, the De-democratic Hellenism and voters who are abroad". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Also, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as in force, on 8-4-2016, a criminal case against the former Minister of Foreign Affairs, George Papandreou. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The fifth question will be discussed under number 748/5-2016, first question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks, Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning losses of proceeds from the trade in counterfeit products. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Tree Alexiadis, will answer. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is a very serious matter. It has been timed in Greek society and in the commercial world in all major urban centers and not just in Athens. It is simply in Athens that there is a great deal of movement of buyers, sellers and various others on the streets. Loss sales revenues translate into many billions of euros, more than EUR 4.5.5 billion in Europe. Loss of jobs exceeds 50 000 jobs and I always speak Europe-wide. In recent years, the problem has been greater in clothing and clothing. European analyses show that almost 75% of Greeks buy "monkey" bags, jewelry and accessories, with greater intensity over the last two years - perhaps even five years - because of the economic closeness, if you like, of the incomes due to the memoranda, recession and high unemployment. Suffices to take a walk to large cities in Greece, to find an entire counterfeiting industry, even on busy streets, such as Ermos, which also has security, namely the police, both politics and the municipality. I will return to my dentistry and other evidence. Mr. Minister, you ask: How do you intend to step on counterfeiting, resulting in huge losses of revenue and jobs? Given the crisis, which is causing many problems in the trade sector - such as reduced purchasing capacity, capital control - how do you plan to protect companies involved in the trade in products? What is the real loss of revenue and jobs for our country every year, especially from the economic crisis, that is from 2009 onwards? Finally, given that the problem is a European problem, is there any provision for cooperation with the European Union on coordinated measures to combat trafficking in illegal copying products? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Parliamentary, you are raising a very important issue of the loss of public revenue and of the risk to public health, because, apart from the obvious problem of loss of revenue we have, we also have a problem with citizens' health, whether from tobacco products that are circulating counterfeit or counterfeiting or from medicines and a number of other products. I will answer you mainly for the department involved in the Ministry of Finance, because in this story there are many agencies involved in transport, customs, police, port, health ministry, the Ministry of Justice, too many bodies. We, as the Ministry of Finance, include the problem of counterfeiting in our actions to combat smuggling, above all, and tax evasion. The smuggling of goods, for which taxes, duties and other tax obligations are not paid, in the sense that, when these products are sold, the public loses from two sides. He loses the revenue that these traders had to make and collect these sums and loses the company that operates legally, struggling with, but with that competition they lose revenue. On the issue of smuggling, we have a great design in the Ministry of Finance, which has already begun to be implemented. It's not an endless design. It has begun to be implemented. There have been specific things. In 2015 we had results and we also had results in the beginning of 2016. You see it from the big confiscations made by the customs services. I have here - and I shall submit them in the Minutes - the documents of the Customs and Infringement Strategy Directorate, the Audit Directorate, the Planning and Evaluation Directorate, the ILO, the Ministry of Economy and Development, the Ministry of Labour on employment issues. Our action on trade, as I have said, is part of our action on smuggling issues. With the new bills that we will bring, we will face much more closely the control of smuggling. Apart from customs and taxation, the ILO, which participates in the Coordinating Centre for the Reconciliation of Trade, is also involved in this matter. It's a coordinating centre very important. We'll use it as a model for the Smuggling Coordinating Center. It's at the Ministry of Economy and Development, the General Secretariat of Trade. As they have informed me in the relevant document, the SYCAP coordinates and cooperates with the competent authorities in dealing with phenomena of illicit trade and, for example, the movement on the market of all kinds of goods in breach, shall be moved on the market without legal documents, shall be made available without the necessary permission and others. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. As the respective Secretariat-General informs us, especially in the clothing, leather footwear, mainly, and other consumer goods and in the toy sales sector, both in houses and outdoor trade, we have significant results. I'm not using all my time now. We have specific results, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, and I shall refer to them in my denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kammene, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Minister. With your permission I will read about the Minutes - and for anyone who wants to deal with it, and I will leave my data too - in relation to the cigarettes by industry and how many people, mainly economic immigrants, are involved in the parade trade in Greece. The turnover of the market is EUR 7 billion to EUR 10 billion a year, without fuel, drink and cigarettes. With fuels, drinks and cigarettes it is EUR 15 billion to EUR 20 billion a year and the revenue foregone from the State is EUR 6 billion. It is sufficient to bear in mind that the debate of the last nine months is being held on the basis of the July agreement for EUR 5.4 billion over three years. However, we are wasting the time of EUR 6 billion from the smuggling industry. We're losing it! If part of this could take the Greek state back, not only would we have a lot more money in the fund and a lot more flexibility and a power to waste it and spend it where it should be, so that they have development measures, but we would protect, as you said quite rightly, and health, especially from tobacco products. I would also like you to tell us when the tobacco smuggling bill is coming - I think it is over. I'm going to tell you a little bit about how many people work and how many people are involved in this messenger sector. For example, in the Piraeus Sunday bazaar, which is our area, in Yusurum, as it is said, there are two hundred eight sellers with permanent permission. Around four and a half thousand illegal sellers are joined together counted by Municipal Police. Bright splendour! You get into Piraeus, you see them every weekend! They're four and a half thousand illegal salesmen! The police, the state must take a walk to bring regularity and legitimacy. Because these four and a half thousand sellers make these huge cigarettes we say, not only in Piraeus, but throughout Greece. But I'm saying it's because he's here in our neighborhood. They act on the circuit in Greece of fifty thousand economic immigrants, of which thirty thousand are in Lefkanedi and the remaining twenty thousand are in the region. And I'll tell the record numbers to stay with everyone who wants to study. EUR 2 billion annually is counterfeit products in the classic retail sector - clothing, footwear, gifts, accessories. Public revenue foregone is EUR 300 million from illegal CD, DVD. The government's revenue from smuggling fuels has been EUR 1.5 billion a year. 50% of the annual turnover of the silversmith industry has reached the paraportal circuits. The government alone in Attica annually loses 100m euros in tax foregone, as on a weekly basis, up to two - three years ago, more than a hundred fifty thousand leather "monkey" - bags, wallets, belts, bags and so on. 75% of the turnover in sunglasses comes from illegal trade and lasting EUR 2 to 3 billion annually is the value of fruit and vegetables moving without documents. I have a study for everything. We put it all on the table. Our government has too much work to do. All of this was not created by us. I am not criticising the previous ones, but we must also bring a order and a check, because we must support the Greek trader and the Greek jobs and, of course, bring revenue to the public and we must not keep up with blackmailing or pressing to bring real measures on the employees and pensioners, as at least the previous governments have done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u8	I fully agree with you in the size of the problem. Unfortunately, this problem also concerns the public and businesses, which lose huge revenue. Apart from this income you have said, we also have an indirect cost to the health problems these products create, because many do not satisfy basic health rules and create a number of problems, whether in the case of cigarettes, clothing or other products. What I want to point out is that we certainly have not achieved what would make us happy, but also in the area of smuggling and in the field of tax evasion, important steps have been taken and important steps are taken, particularly if we take into account the time limits, the control capacities, the equipment and the legal framework that, as you know very well, we are slowly correcting and doing so more quickly. In relation to seizures made, however, I will tell you a few details and I will submit the relevant table: in 2015 in clothes, in games we had a total of thirty thousand hundred and twenty-two pieces, while in 2016 we had seven thousand nineteen pieces in clothes and toys in total. That was for housed trade. In rural trade in 2015, we had a hundred and thirty-two seizure protocols, while we had fourteen thousand pieces. In 2016 we had twenty-two seizure protocols and two thousand fifty-two pieces. As far as the general problem is concerned, these seizures do not mean that the phenomenon has been eliminated, but that we are already doing everything we can. The strategic planning we have is of course to go to the bazaar in Shhsto, but in these areas of smuggling we need to focus not so much on sharing the product to many small sellers, but when it comes, when it comes in containers and when there is the large amount of smuggling there. With regard to your question about what the real loss of revenue and jobs for our country is and if there is the number of jobs we have lost, the Ministry of Labour did not have any specific information about what we have lost there. But his reply, which we will also be tabling in the Minutes - both documents - tells us that according to the National Reform Programme in 2015 from the start of the crisis, from 2008 to 2014, the labour market has been shrinking by one million jobs. Unfortunately, I only have to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we proceed to the next timely question, let me give you some of the deletions of the topical and urgent questions. The first under number 752/5-2016 topical question of the first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the overall upgrading of the Regional Road of Thessaloniki, is not discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry of Economy is responsible. The second under number 742/4-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP in Athens, New Democracy, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the uncontrolled action by NGOs with a suspected role and funding in the reception areas of refugees and illegal immigrants, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister responsible. The fourth under number 707/28-3-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of Piraeus Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the role of NGOs in dealing with the refugee and immigration problem, is not discussed due to an impediment of the relevant Minister. We enter the first with number 743/4-2016 topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironopoulou to the Minister of Finance, regarding the reduction of the available income of the middle class. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Tree Alexiadis, will answer. Mrs Papakostas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, we are living in a periphery, Mr President and fellow Members of Parliament - the Greek society is aware of this - which is extremely critical, difficult. It is a marginal atmosphere that is nothing but transparent and anything but optimistic so that the citizens feel safe. In addition, despite the fact that the government is optimistic about the issue of the closure of the rating, the question, which is born and major, is what I tabled as a matter of today's timely question, namely what the government intends to do about the growing power of the middle-class income available, which is the power and productive fabric of the country. What exactly is the government's programme, which with one, two, three points in particular, should the government also inform us about? I would like to say here that what we are seeing is that, instead of the optimism, which is spread through the lips of the Prime Minister and the Ministers, we see and see that the reality is too hard. The high tax rates, the factors which significantly increase non-wage costs, the lack of tax incentives to attract private investment, the non-blocking of tax evasion, the non-flooding of tax evasion are universally prerequisites for growth, for recovery, for whatever condition the government wants to use, to create a climate of optimism. I will agree with the government - because we too believe this in person - that 90% of the economy is climate, but if the climate is wrong, then I do not want to continue the next part of the proverb that the Greek people say. Here too, Mr President, it seems that the available income of the middle-class in recent years has declined dramatically, more than 30%. And I will mention a typical example of the middle-class social group, which is shocking. Listen, Minister: 38% of military wages are below the poverty line, while 89% of military workers receive wages that do not allow them to live within the limits of decent living. In the sense, then, this climate is wrong. I therefore think that the government should respond with what measures - very specific measures - it is thinking of raising it to increase the available income of the middle-class, which is also the power of the economy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you that I agree with many of the points you have made about the reasons that led us here. For example, the problems with the Armed Forces wages did not arise from wage arrangements last year. These are laws which, unfortunately, we inherited and after the completion of the evaluation, these issues will also be brought into line in order to deal with them. I also agree with what you are saying in your question about the outcome of the BSE survey, that for the period 2009-2014 the income of the average Greek household has fallen by more than 30% due to the increase in both income taxes and insurance contributions. We know very well which political staff, which political and what causes led us here, and we do not want to repeat the same mistakes and the same deadlocked policies. As far as we are going to do what we are going to do and who is planning, at this time, as it is clear, what the government is trying to do is to complete the negotiation, which is based on two laws that the Greek Parliament voted by a qualified majority. That is our plan at the moment, something that makes us optimistic, because we believe that completing the assessment and the debt debate will be the starting point for the country's development progress that will come. Without them, I do not know whether there are many in this country who can say that growth can come when we have such loose ends. As far as the more specific questions of your question are concerned, although they are not entirely of my responsibilities, namely fiscal and customs matters, in the sense that you are addressing issues of other ministries, I would like to tell you that the objectives of our economic policy are specific and these must be achieved in the suffocating context of the continuation of the fiscal adjustment and speeding up of reforms, in order to close the first assessment. Significant steps have already been taken to reform the insurance system, reform the tax system and promote privatisation. After the completion of the evaluation, we will continue to work on plans that we have, with the aim of tax relief for citizens with low and medium-term questions, as well as the promotion of economic stimulus actions. As you can see, it is not possible for a member of the government when the negotiation is under way, even if it is towards the end, to come out and analyse or explain what the government is going to do in detail after the negotiation and evaluation. But be sure that we are not afraid of dialogue. We will well discuss what these next steps will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Papakostas, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, when the ministers come here they will have to answer. They should not make an analysis, a bad type of ideas report, which is out of the question. Because the Minister said before that, in any case, it is not his responsibility. Previously, Mr Kammenos asked a question about the paramilitary smuggling economy. The failure of the economy is the result, Minister, of overtaxation of citizens. This creates an economy. It's your responsibility. While we have a high tax rate, on the other hand, we have the opposite effect, we have a lack of revenue. There is a lack of revenue at the moment you are ruling. And I am opening a parable: you remember to say what serves you for the previous civilian staff, but you did not say a word, you said a word, a word, a word, a matter of what you do and you transferred it to the future, after the evaluation. This is called "damage of psalm bex", since it is the days of the greetings ahead of St. Easter. I must explain that it is your responsibility to say that there is a lack of revenue despite the increased taxes which have been written in the budget. The public debts, Minister, are not paid to third parties, with the result that public debts due in February amount to EUR 6 billion. So your primary surplus is not real. What's the result? Again, the government is proclaiming that it is looking for a way to increase its revenue. And where is he looking for the way? Again from the bleeding of the middle class's unavailable income, which we said is the power and productive fabric of the country. So now you have to take responsibility for this, and you have to tell us what you're going to do. And, unfortunately, you're not telling us by the words but by the works we see? I'll give you some clues. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do you need to know that the OECD, which was then whacked and whipped by the government when it was in the opposition, has shown evidence to what it shows? It shows that 43.4% -43.5% of the wage of a worker - those who are still working - with two children - a four-member family, namely - goes directly to contributions and taxes. How to launch and develop at such high tax rates? I have to tell you that the OECD has published that we are contributors. The average, Mr President, of the OECD member states, do you know where it varies? 26.9%. We're at 43.4%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Do you know that in saving while we were positive, and a few years ago Greeks saved, we are now negative, while the rest of the European Union in saving have a positive mark? And I have to tell you that we don't have savings because they don't have enough money. What if there was saving it from where it would come from? It would come mainly from the middle class. So you need to see this - regardless of what you want to say, but you do not say it, because we actually see day-to-day overtaxation and a savage whispering of the middle Greek family - and tell us how you will change it so that the economy will actually get ahead, which we all wish. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. The speech is made by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u16	I think that no matter how much time you give me in this House, we will not be able to discuss and agree on what led us here, what political, what political, what political, what political, what policy mix.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u17	That's not what I asked you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u18	So I don't want to waste any time on it, although at some point there's got to be a debate about it. Because in politics, in my opinion, you do not only need to criticise, but you must also put forward a different, alternative political proposal. We also need not only criticism in terms of taxation and smuggling. We need what had to be done, and it didn't happen. Because I have committed myself to the Committee on Economic Affairs - and once we find the possibility of doing so - for a full balance sheet for the entire period and full information on all the elements, as we are doing now. But let me tell you, as far as the OECD figures are concerned, that the OECD figures, which you referred to, are not relevant to the SYRIZA - ANEL government period. They're about a previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u19	Changed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u20	So I fully agree with the content and arguments, but they do not concern our own period, so that we can talk about this. I will disagree with you, with all due respect for your parliamentary work, on the issue of lack of revenue. In 2015, a year with capital controls, with an impossibility for the public to take enforcement measures for the time being - that is, for a long time - and in a number of other problems, we managed and closed down within budget objectives. We had no revenue shortfall in 2015, as you complained to us. As far as the months of 2016 are concerned, despite the difficulties of citizens and businesses, the data is published and it seems very well whether we are above or below the target. So I don't understand what you're talking about. As far as tax refunds are concerned - so I am responsible for myself, do not charge me everything that the Greek State owes me, each Minister has his own responsibility - they are normally done and if you see the 2015 figures, there were many months in which we had more refunds than the respective months of 2014. As far as the question is concerned, then, what the government is going to do is to tell you that for us it is important to complete the assessment and move on to the debt debate, which are the main prerequisites for the next day of the country. Because I have not been able to say everything in my answer - unfortunately we have had to say more - there are documents that I will be tabling in the Minutes, for your information more fully.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The third, with number 746/4-2016, is a top-level question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the need to re-establish the single price of the book, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. The fourth under number 755-4-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the biomass power plants in the Municipality of Gortyna Heraklion, Crete, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The second question under number 708/28-3-2016 by MP Phytidos of New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, Minister for Health, concerning the treatment of the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Also, the second question under number 2808/193/1-2-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion, is not discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. We enter the debate of the sixth under number 626/7-3-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKGROKYKYKOSKYGROKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKOKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOGOKOKOKOKOKOGOKOKOKOKOKOKOGOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKO In this timely question will be answered by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question concerns the problems that have arisen in the functioning of the social structures of the municipalities, which I believe you are aware of because of the visits of the workers' associations or the relevant CEDEFOP committees to the Ministry of the Interior and, of course, because of the statements made by these bodies. Let us look at some of them, see if there is a field of understanding and find solutions to specific problems. First of all, I would like to remind you, Minister, that in 2014 we met together at the 2nd Conference of Workers' Associations in "Help at Home". Then all the political forces and, of course, in your own personal position, we have committed ourselves to strengthening the stable and permanent functioning of this programme since it has been evaluated as one of the most successful programmes of self-government. We have an issue concerning nurseries and nurseries, where, by changing working hours, staff needs are increasing and the proportion of workers and children that children must have is not covered. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u23	You have time, Mr. Kegeroglu. There is tolerance from the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. The proportion, Mr Minister, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Children's and Family Stations, is specific and I think that more staff should be recruited for this purpose, so that the increased funding needed, through the programme for the harmonization of professional and family life, will also be included in this programme, or, in any event, if overtime cover is allowed, the corresponding funding to be provided to the municipalities in order to cover this gap. The other point I raise to you is that, due to the delay in financing the municipalities and the payment of the workers, insurance contributions are paid and delayed, and the municipalities or public enterprises or the legal persons of the municipalities, who are responsible for the operation of the kindergartens or other programmes, are charged with too many fines, which are due to the late payment of the money. I mention these - because the time has passed for the first time - in order to see whether we can give a solution to the problems that have accumulated in the functioning of these specific social structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u26	Mr Colleague, first of all, I would like to apologise for the delay in answering this question. I want to be clear, it was my responsibility for various obligations that arose every time. As far as this issue is concerned, I think it is mainly a matter that Mrs Fotou has repeatedly answered, because these programmes, as you know, are being handled by Mrs Fotio, it is the Minister who has succeeded in your role in the previous government. It is therefore in this area, but, because they are also relevant to self-government, I will reply to you. I don't want to be unreal. Indeed, this is a large, pan-Hellenic, complex programme and there have been some delays. But you know that at the moment everyone who has presented the files has been paid for. In other words, there is no delay due to a lack of funding, so that we can discuss things with their name. At the same time, in April, all the appropriations needed in the EBRD have been secured in order to continue the second instalment of the programme. We are therefore covered until July when the new programme will be launched, which will take account of all these needs, for which you and we agree that they must be priorities, because they concern vulnerable groups of the population. You referred to the issue of the childcare programme. We have the same sensitivity on this issue, because it is about children who have to ensure that they are cared for and treated at that age, because we all know how important a pedagogical impact a child has on such a programme. Therefore, the reduction in working hours was the result of scientific research, because these people are educators. And we want the kindergartens - and I believe everyone in this place - to be a treatment centre and not a safe house. On the basis of what I say and we have decided to do, the programme has been adapted, and I honestly do not have any complaints from a municipality about this. However, because you raise this issue and since the opposition has identified an issue, we need to look into it, this is being considered and in the new programming period all the predictions will be taken to address the issue. Now as far as fines are concerned. Indeed, delays in insurance obligations, as you and I know, have been imposing fines over the years. We have already intervened in the administration of the IKA and I. I have to say to you - and so I will reassure you - that, because there is always this problem, in the draft legislation - 'bowl' that we are bringing, we are already in place a provision that resolves this issue so that the insurance institutions do not fine when the municipality does not have responsibility for delaying the workers' obligations towards the insurance funds. I think, therefore, that in such a spirit, despite the difficulties that exist, efforts are being made in this area, not only as they exist, because you know that there are nine hundred workers in these programmes and in the new programme there will be a thousand four hundred. And because there can also be the question of how all of them will be recruited, I tell you that they will be recruited according to the procedures of the AACC. I say this so that there is no misunderstanding that there is no reason to serve someone for a purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I will start where there is agreement, Minister, on the issue you have announced that there will be regulation. I will also present myself with my own treatment for the issue of fines and insurance contributions, when municipalities and other legal persons do not have the responsibility for this delay. I'll hand it over to you, and maybe it helps get a good result in the bill you say it's coming. I'll testify to it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll come to the second thing. You referred to the numbers nine hundred and a thousand four hundred. It is another matter that I have not put it in my question today and has been answered by Mrs Fotou. That's another matter. I don't have it all right in my question. It's for the structures of poverty. It is another question and it has other issues that I would not like to mention today. When it comes to discussing that question, we will mention it, because this is another type of problem. The 'Help at home' programme is very well known, Mr Kurubli. I reminded you of the second conference of workers, where together we committed ourselves to the permanent operation of the programme and the constant work of the workers. I, to the extent I have had my potential, proceeded with a regulation in 2014 on the operation of the programme. It requires consultation between the government and the parties on the question of workers, because it is not a simple matter. The agreement needs to be reached so that we can see how best to ensure the stability of work. These people have been selected by ASEP. Don't forget. But in the matter of late payment, you will allow me to tell you this. It is now April and the programming contract for this programme has not yet been launched. It has not been approved by the Court of Auditors or, if it has been taken, funding for the EBRD and the municipalities has not started. I am referring to the 'Help at Home' programme, which has no funding. I confirmed it today. Okay, you'll tell me it can be random, etc. But let us see it, because this delay cannot continue even if it has happened in the past or is happening now. It can't be next year and next year, we're gonna have to see it. So on that basis I want you to answer me so that we can see what is going on. The second question, which I did not have time to raise in my first speech, concerns the municipalities that have left out of a pilot work programme for eight months of work. There are fifty-one municipalities which have joined in the first and second phases, and we must see these municipalities and the unemployed, of course, who do not have the right to apply and also from the side of the municipalities with significant needs, which are partly covered by the programme of social work, and indeed the eight-month programme, which will be even better and will be able to meet the increased needs of the municipalities, until there is a solution with a more permanent hiring of staff, which will reduce these needs for seasonal staff and staff from public work. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, as far as the 'Help at Home' programme is concerned, we all recognise - and it is important to have such common assumptions - that it is a programme that life itself has justified. And I'm glad, because I was with Manolis Skoulakis and Dimitris Kremastinos when we started this programme, a programme that really contributes to a great deal of support for human beings in the family environment. We have ensured for the next three years all the necessary appropriations so that this programme really does not only stand on its feet but also give a sense of security to the people to whom it refers and to the workers who, in the vast majority of them, all have to admit that they are paying their good self to provide quality services to these people. As far as the question of the contract of the new programme is concerned, I would like to say that it has gone to the Court of Auditors and the money is guaranteed. Because, you know, it's always easy to pass laws, to make contracts, but when there's no money, nothing happens. The money is therefore secured and there is therefore no concern and I stress very clearly that the Minister responsible has also stressed it - that the programme is progressing properly. As far as the unemployment programme is concerned, I must tell you that the data have been obtained since 1911, to see both the issue of unemployment and the issue of long-term unemployment and the issue of rising unemployment. These are three criteria which have been taken into account in order to make this pilot project. What the Minister responsible assured me - and it might be useful to ask and ask a question, in order to have a more thorough debate - is that it will be extended to all municipalities. Therefore, this issue, I think, is in an evolutionary process. With regard to permanent recruitment and fixed-term contracts, I must tell you that we have addressed all municipalities, and we have asked for data and proposals with priorities, so that a genuinely correct classification of needs can be made. I have to tell you something, which may sound for the first time, that we are determined on permanent recruitment this year, in terms of self-government, to concentrate mainly on the small municipalities, who have all these years, Mr Colleague, on their fate. There was no care for these municipalities. We did a special economic aid programme for the first time in the mountain municipalities, we did the same for island municipalities and I have to say to you - and the government confesss - that it was the first time, in 2015, that a government promised them that they would take all their debts and outstandings to them and that it was maintained up to 1 euro, so that self-government could really be able in this difficult period, with the programs it is trying, to lift the burden of restraining the effects of the economic and social crisis and to be able, in any way, by using whatever means we can as a country, to keep the cohesion of our society to a high degree. So I think your remarks are useful. We will take this proposal into account. Besides, we're listening. I don't think you should complain, although you've been complaining many times, but we're listening to you and doing corrective interventions, because you've nursed in this space, you've been carrying an experience and experience is always useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we continue with the next timely question, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure shall submit its reports to the proposals of the President of the Parliament of the Greeks: (a) "to incorporate, as an Annex to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Code of Conduct of Members of the Hellenic Parliament". (b) 'Amendment of Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Part II, (FEC 51 A/10-.4-.1997), as applicable'. Before we move on to the next - the last fundamental question - for today's time, I would like to announce the last three topical questions that are being deleted. The fifth under number 663/15. -3. -2016 topical question by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Finance regarding the participation of Greek entrepreneurs in the increase of the capital of Greek television channel and the delay of loans granted to PEGASOS S.A., is not discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister. Seventh number 745/4. -4-2016 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on non-performing loans is also not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. Finally the third under number 716/29. -3. -2016 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problem of the operation of the Epirus TEI from the lack of teaching staff and equipment, is not discussed due to the absence of the relevant Deputy Minister abroad. I also have the honour to inform the House that the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Economics, Environment and Energy, the Deputy Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, as well as the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs have today tabled a draft law: 'Research and other provisions'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Loverdos, you have asked for the floor, obviously in relation to the timely question. Is one minute enough for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u32	Yeah, yeah. One minute is enough, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u33	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, as a Parliamentary Group, we have voted for two extensions of the rules on so-called'red' loans, which, as we hear, have now become'red' loans, because any agreement - we hear - will also include 'green' loans. We have voted twice and the final date of the second extension is five days. The 15th is the last day and the second extension. We hear from the media, but not from the relevant ministers. We are criticising, raising tons, talking about fatal government of fatal ministers, but beyond the headlines of our criticism, it is also our criticism of the substance. We will see you in the Standing Committees, Mr President, we are told that you will do parliamentary control. I say this as a parliamentary representative on other occasions, saying 'Do parliamentary control'. We're doing parliamentary control. The ministers aren't coming. And the Bureau has made speeches, but I tell you this: Mr Stathakis' Ministry has three Deputys. Can't a State Secretary undertake to inform the House? He's got three Undersecretaries! Can you not, in addition to the general recommendations which you and the other Vice-Presidents have made and the President have made to the Government from the Chamber, cannot you - I repeat, at least as President-in-Office, make the recommendation to come up with information issues which the Member does not always have in his mood to confront and conflict, but to be informed and informed? Can't a Undersecretary tell us what the course of the red-green loan debate is? Mr President, this is a second postponement. I'm not saying I haven't been informed since this morning, I've been briefed. But the point is not to know why he's postponing. Today, four of the seventeen questions are being discussed. Send a State Secretary with the information the Ministry has to be informed of. No State Secretary is able to come to this room to say two words? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, a government representative is present.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u37	Mr Loverdos, I shall refer to the postponement or remission, if you wish, of your topical question, which, as you have rightly said, you have also been informed, and you have also been informed of the reasoning. It has been deleted because of the obligations of Mr Stathakis' particular minister, from what we have been told in the Chair, because he has a government council. Of course, and you are right, too, that this is a second time to be postponed independently of the word, we include this as well. You are not, however, the only honourable Member or Member, if you wish, who complains once again. Again and again, not all of us - I think - have, in their speech, called on the government, the ministers to be more consistent with parliamentary control by their presence and the debate on topical questions. As you all know, these issues have been raised on several occasions in the Conference of Presidents. The President of the Parliament himself has also personally taken over - from what he has assured us, of course, and there is no reason to believe - and he has intervened on several occasions within the framework of his powers and powers in the government to ensure that the ministers are consistent in parliamentary control. Of course, the reality is what you mentioned with a little mistake. Let me correct for you: Only four of the fourteen topical questions have been debated today. Ten questions have been deleted. Of course, there were, for example, three - now we do not need to talk about it, at the time when the cancellations were read - where there were real problems: the Minister could not really be in the interests of health and others because of absence abroad. To relax a little, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Kegeroglu today must feel lucky. He has two ministers to him in front of the questions he has asked. You saw where the complaints and the reactions of the Members of Parliament are sometimes taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u38	The Undersecretaries why don't they come?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u39	I can't answer you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u41	Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u42	It is obvious that everything that has been said has been said. That is how it must be done, because we, too, regard as an official opposition when we were there, complained too much about not responding to us. So we must not repeat what we were accusing ourselves. But today, Mr President, all of us are aware of, the pan-Hellenic, where the government's financial staff are, which is meeting all weekends, which is rising, which is constantly meeting, to ask why Stathakis, Juliarakis, are not here today, when we know where they are and with whom they are negotiating, to ensure a rapid assessment, it seems to me to be unfair. That is what I wanted to say today specifically.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, give me ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u44	Wait a minute, Mr. Loverdo. Don't enter a dialogue process now. Okay, I understand Mrs. Fotou on the government's side that she wanted to justify Mr. Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I will need ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u46	Excuse me. I have announced from the Chair why Mr Stathakis is not attending today's debate on this particular timely question: because of a government council. Mr. Loverdos knew about it. But see, this is the second time a question has been postponed. Of course, the reason is specific. On the other hand - let me now, I do not want to open up a debate - it has happened on many occasions with many Members and with their second statement that the ministers are not coming, etc. I do not like to repeat myself, but many times, from this seat, we have called on the government to be the ministers, the Undersecretaries, the Deputys consistent in the conduct of parliamentary control and to respond to the Members and, unfortunately, we are not being heard. There's nothing else we can do. Mr. Loverdo, you don't have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u47	Madam Secretary, if he hadn't had the Ministry of State, I really wouldn't have asked for the floor. It is well known to everyone, and I said it in my speech that the Minister informed us. I would like to point out that this is the second postponement of a department with three Deputys. The Government works with the criterion and constitutional principle of collective responsibility, as much as the Deputy Ministers and State Secretarys of the same Ministry. As we passed through these seats, we made sure that 90% were achieved, that at least the Undersecretaries were at least, even if they were not handling the portfolio, informed by the Minister to give an elementary answer on a matter concerning negotiation, all the Greeks who are waiting for it and who are here with two extensions that we have voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u48	Next time, we'll give numbers...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u49	All right, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u50	You'd say we don't trust you. So, instead of you getting in a difficult position and taking on the role of another, it could be one of the three Undersecretaries, giving two answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. We continue with the first number 2919/202/4-2-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding support for multiple families. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Theanos Fotio. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u52	Within my time to say, Minister, I am waiting for the evidence to be truly visible and which ministers were consistent, because it is also a personal matter who is consistent and who is not. Some come - not to blame them - and some systemically don't come. In other governments, the same was the case. But I'm personally waiting for the evidence to have a reward. Well, to close the previous topic, I would like to present the memorandum of the Pan-Hellenic Coordinating Workers "Help at Home" submitted to the Ministry and the parties on 30-3-2016, so that there is, and what we said about the unemployment issue, and which, for example, the Ministry did not apply to the criteria for the evolution of unemployment, which unfortunately in some areas, such as Crete, increased in a year by 18.22% and, of course, the second region in which the Ionian Islands were greatly increased, with 9% within a year of February 2015 in February 2016, and the total unemployment, of course, increased 3.48% throughout Greece, according to the figures provided by the OAED last month. I will put it out in the Minutes to see that there have been injustices and, in fact, that we do not apply criteria to the programme we were discussing about social work. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, to refer to this specific question to Mrs Fotou, which is about a correction that is required in my view to the criteria for joining the European Aid Fund for the most deprived. And I believe that we need to proceed before the programme has been implemented, because it is basically at its very beginning, with an increase in the limit for the multi-stakeholder families. Since the TEVA aims to combat poverty and extreme poverty and also child poverty, it will be very right both in the letter and in the spirit of the operational programme, to increase the amount of childcare and added to the income limit, so that the luxurious families with one, with two, with three and in particular with four or more children are not wrong and above all to leave that 8,100 pound that says that even eight children have up to 8,100 will not go any more, so over five children will eat the rest, let alone the share. It is a mistake and we must correct it on the basis of the equal treatment of individuals and children. And since an initial limit has been set for the individual 3,000 euros, all right, let's say it's for the second and the third, and so forth, if there's a lot of them, but it can't go down to 900 euros. It is injustice and is not treated in this way and the objective of dealing with child poverty is not served. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u54	Mr Kegeroglu, I am pleased to answer you every week on top of current questions, especially when it comes to a programme like TEVA, which you had run in terms of its integration. I should like to point out, from the outset, that the programme is being implemented and, of course, it is a difficult programme, that is to say, it has an incredible bureaucracy for which you have certainly not been responsible. This is all within the European Union. But it is also a programme which surprises me - and that is why I will go to the European Union to present it - because no one thought to give this money to the most deprived with a card, as we did with the solidarity card, which would undone a huge bureaucracy and have dignity for the destitute, as he would go to take his own food, on the basis of the amount that we would write. A misunderstanding now, I'm going to report. That's not what I'm saying it's your fault, is it? There's been a misunderstanding here. That's not true, Mr. Kegeroglu. The limit of family income by EUR 900 per year is increased, without a limit on the number of children and EUR 1,500 per year for each adult dependent family member similarly without a limit. There's been a misunderstanding of the CIA. Please come back and see it. Indeed, the CIA was wrongly interpreted. We've already sent that confirmation. If you read the NSA - we never corrected it again - that's exactly what it says. But it was misinterpreted. You are making a proposal, which is extremely interesting. I sat down and calculated her. I've calculated her in detail to see exactly what's going to happen. Mr Kegeroglu, as you know, the TEVA, the European Aid Fund for the Apocalypse, gives 330 million all and everything for this period of the ESRB, i.e. 45 per year. We, on the basis of the electronic application and the criteria that we have applied - and we will say what we have implemented - of extreme poverty - because, as you well know, the TEVA is about extreme poverty, which you very poorly define on the basis of economic criteria in particular - we have seen in this application that four hundred thousand people have entered the whole territory. Repeat: four hundred thousand. If you make a simple division, Mr Kegeroglu, the 45 million for the four hundred thousand people, you will unfortunately have a number of EUR 9 a month for the person, Mr President and Mr Kegeroglu. We did not respect the limit you set for the third family to the minimum guaranteed income, 5,400, but we did 7,200. Therefore, we have already increased it and yet what came out was EUR 9 per person per month. Therefore, if I follow your proposal, people who will enter will be exactly twice as much and therefore each individual will get 4,5 euros a month. I think that, unfortunately, cannot be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, this was discussed in the negotiations with the European Commission, the Directorate-General responsible, when we were drawing up the operational programme. In fact, I was one of those who insisted very much on being given by means of a social check, as I had called it, so that the beneficiary would also have the right to choose and that the procedure of supply, transfer, placement, etc. is not involved at all. Unfortunately, they rejected it. I hope they have messages from the other regions of Europe, where the programme operates, but also from us for the problems and for there to be an amendment. This part, however, has nothing to do with it. But it's a matter. That's what you said. Also, because we have raised other issues, to say a thought - once we discussed it - which I think you accept: to make the money completely decentralised. If this is the case, we need a complete decentralisation of money to solve the bureaucratic problems and not to have the delays that we have today, because unfortunately we are in 2016 and we have been too late to put the programme in full. For the particular thing I'm asking, I'm going to give you a clue, to see that we need to see it again possibly with a change of criteria. I did not make any criteria for the TEVA, we had not made any progress on it. We said, of course, that the general society that will be the recipient of the programme is the ones who experience extreme poverty. That's what we said. When you have seven, eight children are not extreme poverty with 3,000 or 4,000 or 5,000 euros obviously. Watch out now, what's going on with the multiples only. There are eighteen thousand four hundred eighty-eighty families in Crete. In the programme - to which few have not entered - a significant number of - I think in Crete some seventeen thousand beneficiaries, if you have the evidence, say it, because I have no clipboard - only two hundred and fifty, a multitude of families joined. That means we've been wrong somewhere. There can be no eighteen thousand seven hundred thirty families for a family to be rich or, in any case, out of that limit. Yes, they may have some allowances that raise their income, but also the needs of many families are much larger. That is why I am telling you that the specific issue, which concerns children and even minors - because in adults you have a limit of EUR 1,500, which is suffering, that is, within one logic - you need to see it again. If the EUR 900 that you have put it in, EUR 1,500 is going to solve too many problems in small families. That is what I am making you the last proposal, if the situation is improved. And we reassess it. Moreover, the number will not be dramatically changed, but some families with young children will be integrated into the programme today. I will testify for the minutes and a document from the Hercules Parents Association, which mentions these elements that I have told you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u58	Mr Kegeroglu, I think you have understood from the division that I have done about what we are talking about and the terrible situation in which we are in. TEVA speaks of extreme poverty. It is clear that if we consider that extreme poverty is twice as many people, then to families with two or three people we will give at the end of EUR 12 a month, to all together. That is why we are trying to keep the number of people to no more than four hundred thousand. We are trying to do everything, but you know that extreme poverty will also be given the social solidarity benefit - at the same time they also have this - apart from the TEVA. To date, in this extreme poverty, we give targeted EUR 70 to 220 to the luxurious families for rent, we give 220 per month for food and 400 KWh per month for free electricity. That's what we do for all the luxurious families who have been subjected to the law, to try and deal with it. I said to the laundry union, who visited me that what I can do, I will. I'm changing the CSA for the extra foods that are being redistributed. I'm changing it so that there's all of them in there. We will have school meals, which aim specifically at child poverty. I have asked the European Union to give me this money separately for school meals. Of course, he gives me some money, not a lot, not a lot, 6 million a year. For school meals, I need 60 million. I'll get it. There is no doubt that I will find them so that we are again aiming to strengthen this part that we all care about: child poverty. So, in all the things you're telling me, I'm gonna do all the bills. Come to the office, any time you want. I have read your proposal and you see that I have implemented it, that is, I am looking at its implementation and what problem it may cause. That's why I told you that I'm going to spend EUR 9 a person at EUR 4.5. In the end, again, the luxurious family, the really poor one, will be reduced if we go to 4,5 euros. As for the other issue, you remember that I suggested that in order to stimulate local markets, not to make supplies centrally from the state. We've been through the CIA too. While we did the first supply by the state, we are now extending it to social partnerships, depending on the amounts they have. Of course, Crete is at the moment - from what I see here in front of me, but you will also get all the information you requested in detail - ten thousand thousand eighty-seven benefiting people. All the indicators we have - and extreme poverty and unemployment and long-term unemployment - go hand in hand with all the elements, so that we know exactly how to benefit people who are hardest hit by the crisis. You also know that, for the first time in this programme, we have given fresh products, namely fruit, vegetables, but also meat and chicken, which of course also has problems. I'm not hiding. We all know that these are sensitive products, that they want attention to transport, but we thought we should give them to our fellow citizens, instead of just giving the other products we have given up to today. Therefore, we will continue with the TEVA. We are considering each proposal. We are trying to invent everything, but the EUR 9 is EUR 9, Mr Kegeroglu. I suspect that the European Union did not want to make the card or what you said, precisely so that it did not appear that it was EUR 9.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I wanted to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u61	What do you want, Mr. Kegeroglu? You know the conversation is closed. You're an old parliamentarian and you know. What exactly do you want? Question? Haven't you been covered by the Minister's answers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u62	I just want to say one thing. You referred to the criteria of extreme poverty. It does not commit to families with children, because it is another goal and you can have different criteria. That's the one I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u63	I have the goals of the program. I'll read them to you if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u64	No, it's okay. We don't disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u65	I don't think we need to expand. Mrs. Fotou, you said you had a list in your hands. You can give him to Mr. Kegeroglu or submit it to the Minutes, so that the House can be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u66	In general, we don't disagree. In the special, from the program, it was planned, fresh and fresh - and you have to do it - that the partnerships take it, because that's exactly the problem you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u67	I did. Local communities will take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u68	Yeah, but that was predictable...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u69	Yeah, but don't get into dialogue right now. Mr. Kegeroglu, you asked for the floor, I gave it to you. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u70	We're a composer, Mr. President. We're trying to find solutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u71	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-11-S1-commons.u72	With the consent of the House at 19.20' the sitting is closed tomorrow, April 12, 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of the proceedings of the House, according to the special agenda distributed.
