ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the second with number 1106/11-7-2016, a top-level question by the MP of Heraklion, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Health, on the creation of new areas of EKAB in the wider region of Crete. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paulakis. Please, Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there is a decision under Protocol No 966021-7-2015 of the Health Region of Crete on the creation of EKAB stations in Crete. It is a decision which, of course, was signed by me, as commander at the time of the health region, a decision taken jointly by me and then by the Deputy Minister of Health and the current Minister of Health, Mr Xanthos. This is a decision which discussed the data on the health map of Crete, after consultation with the administration of the EKAV Crete, with a view to the fullest coverage of the population of Crete and discussed with all stakeholders, municipalities, municipal authorities and others. In addition to this decision, which I am tabling on the Minutes, other decisions have been taken, such as the concession of sites from BIP to EKAB for housing in the EKAB sector in Chania and other decisions that have been implemented. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To stand up to the issue of the decision of the EMCDDA at Martha's post. This is an area, which is twenty-five minutes away from the regional areas of the Vianno Health Center, twenty minutes from Haraka Health Center and twenty minutes from the Arkalochori Health Centre. In other words, this is an area that actually covers the meeting point of the three municipalities, covers the regions of the health centres of all three municipalities, Haraka, Arkalochori and Viannos, and is effectively halving the access time of an equivalent disease from any of these doctorates or villages to the respective health centre. Along with the overall coverage, which, as I said, we took into account the health map of Crete, in fact the only part of Heraklion that was staying uncovered - let us not go further now - was the northwest, where we were talking about an area at the height of the national road, west of Gazi and possibly an area at the place of Agia Paraskevi, covering the northwestern centre of Heraklion. From this decision I made in the Minutes, on the one hand, Minister, we recently had the opening of another sector from the EKAV to Kavros in Chania, while Martha's sector was nowhere else. And that is not all, but at a recent meeting, as mayor Viannou told me at least, at this meeting this commander of the Ministry said there was no decision, but it was Igoumenid's idea. I filed it in the Minutes as to whether there was a decision. The question is whether this decision has changed. And if so, when? What if it changed, under which criteria to cover the population of Crete? And outside the Martha area, what else does it include? If it didn't change, who gives the right to any decisions of the administration to characterise them as ideas? Secondly, how do you intend, Minister, to design and implement this decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u4	Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. As because of your term of office in the 7th YPE, you will know, the EKEB in Crete has two hundred and thirty-five staff. Unfortunately its distribution is irrational and this creates major problems in covering with ambulances and rapid pre-innovation care and emergency transport especially in the south of Crete. The proposal you made in relation to the distribution of the EAW sectors has been taken very seriously into account by the design of the Ministry of Health, as well as by the new recruitments, which are expected in a few days for the call of a hundred people, which will strengthen the strength of the EAW crews. A number of them will also be directed to Crete, and I am taking this opportunity to say that this is the first time that we have had a public call of interest by people who are already serving in the EKAB - because we had planned the number of seats for Crete - to see whether there are staff who are already serving to move and solve a number of family problems, in a public way, on the basis of mobilisation rather than the way in which my friend or voter is moved - and to the extent that these posts are covered by staff who are already in service, to declare the position of the person who will be moved. And it's already done. We inaugurated the Kavros station, which has started to operate and will soon cover the shifts completely. In Heraklion there are a number of health centers nearby - I'm talking about Harakas, Arkalochori and Moires - which have drivers. From now on, in a country after memorials and after a crisis we do not have the luxury of having synergies and we must have synergies, as we now have for the new EKAV sector in Kavros, which covers a very important part of the northern road axis of Crete with a lot of traffic. We cannot only have the EKAB sector and beside the Vamos Health Centre, which has so far lifted the burden, so that shifts do not come together. So something has been decided at a meeting that took place on the basis of the possibilities we have, because we are a government, as you understand - because you are taking part in this effort - that we are announcing things that we can do in a visible time horizon. We said, therefore, that there will be no sector, but there will be a station in Vianno with two ambulances, with staff from both the EMCDDA and the staff from the Vianno Health Centre. They're already serving two drivers. We repaired the ambulance, which was left without oil, and it was burned. We went to the second ambulance. In the next few days - it has expired, returns from the AACC for the objections, although no objections have been raised, as far as I know - an auxiliary ambulance driver for the Viannou Health Center. In combination with the other seven, who are declared permanent posts with the new notice, we believe that we will cover too many areas of Crete in a combination with the EAW. We believe that this solution is an immediate solution that can give visible results, because to set up an EAW sector in Martha, eleven people need one. And nine, but on the basis of shifts, etc. They need eleven. At the moment, two people are serving in the health center, going third and there is another person on leave. There are one or two people who can move from other prefectures from the EKEB since it builds a station and with staff that is available from Heraklion or that will come tomorrow - the day after tomorrow in Heraklion and will be moved there, all 24-hour shifts may well be covered and the work required can be offered. Unfortunately, some plans must be put in place to incorporate them in a framework both in relation to the movement of the incidents and the needs they meet, and in relation to the possibilities we have, in order to be able to cover certain situations. This is the final design that has been made at the moment. There are other sectors. In the Holy Kingdom there is a sector that needs to be developed in Bale position. You said that too. We also need to develop an area with a perspective. The Rethymnon Prefecture, however, has very little of its staff. It needs to be strengthened so that it can be developed, as is the Platanias sector that covers a large part. We said there's probably going to be an ambulance station especially in the summer, which can alleviate the area that in the winter is not such a move, but in the summer with so many thousands of beds it really has a great need. So, based on this design, we have come up with, which is both visible and realistic and practicable within the next period of time and we are already starting to implement it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, from which I conclude that there is obviously a decision. Obviously, it is a decision that today has the Ministry's agreement that it covers the population of Crete operationally. Another thing 'we don't have the possibility directly' or 'we go to something else' and another thing that 'there is no decision' or much more 'these are someone's ideas'. However, allow me, Mr Minister, to say that it is not the only decision to refer to the bells. We have too many decisions that, on the basis of the timely question, I would like to denounce you. Tymbakis Regional Hospital: It was to work in September. Good thing he surrendered a moment ago. I have here - and I am tabling it in the Minutes - in view of the movement of the regional doctor to function on a date of 31-7-2015 - just one year has ended - the movement of two nurses for the Tymbakis medical office. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is not the only case, nor are these the only weaknesses. We have moved a nurse also within this very planning framework. I am talking about people living in the Tymbac region or in other areas, so their movement there on the basis of our design solves the problem of the work and of covering these jobs for the next twenty-five years, that is, the margin that will still be working in the public health system and not to ask immediately after their appointment or in the first year for people to replace them. For PHS it was located on 8-7-2015, according to the data of the Ministry. Here we have a year and twenty-three days. These decisions have not been implemented. Question: What magical hand blocks these movements? What are they ignoring and ignoring the implementation of decisions by the health region administration? And ultimately, the people of Messara are waiting for an answer: Who undermines the expressed will of our Government for the effective functioning of the Polypowerful Regional Medical Tymbakis? Secondly, I shall close with that, Minister. Cardiosuppressive and Hepatic Workshop Unit in PFAGNE. I happened to monitor her design when you discussed the units. The intake of an intensive, an anaestheticist and a cardiologist was predicted. They were predictions that we discussed with the Director of Cardiology and Cardioperative Clinic of PPAGNE before we decided, plus 12 nursing ancillary staff. I happened to be present at the Ministry when he informed you of the discussions with the directors and the specific staff you signed up to. PPAGNIS was exempted from the recruitment of ancillary staff, so that the unit would never operate, the anaesthetics and anesthetics who were recruited are engaged in the PPAGNI SPC and not in the specific unit for which the posts were opened and was to recruit the staff. What magical hand did PAGAN exclude from subsidiary staff? And of course the Chief of Staff did his games and he did not respect his post - a professor hears the other Medical School of the University of Crete - he did not respect the fact that he was a serviceman, he did not respect the political choices of the Ministry of Health's leadership. But in addition to that, there were others who signed to exclude PFAGNE from subsidiary staff. Will the administrative director or any other responsible have effectively cancelled your decision? What does the new administration do and how does it undo this situation? I believe, Minister, that we have no magical hands and no magical force on our part. If you want, I don't believe in metaphysics. I believe that we have the Left in our country which is planning the future of the country, the Left that is planning the public health system. I consider ourselves to be part of this collective effort, whether it relates to the functioning of the EKAB sectors or to the functioning of a medical profession, as it has emerged from the health map operating in Matala a new structure or operating the Tymbalian Polyvalent Physics. In addition to the difficulties arising from our Memorandumary Obligations, we have to deal with the zombies of the past as well. We have to face strong rhetoric mechanisms of a client state, that is, we have, Minister, the most rotten, the most disguised and condemnable of the political history of this country. In my opinion, and I close with that, check, Minister, all the pyramid of the Ministry of Health and send a clear message to everyone. The civil servants, the health ministry's officials, regardless of their level, are to implement the political decisions of the political leadership and not to implement a policy or much more to undermine the plans of our government. In this effort, you can be sure I'll be right next to you. I have devoted a piece of my life and soul to the public health system and this little path I feel well about - let me not say proud - I am not prepared to submit it to any party of purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u8	Mr Igoumenidis, a brief answer: The left-hand parentheses scenario has been played for over a year and after three elections and after an assessment and others. It is clear - and we have experienced it at the Ministry - that there was indeed a mechanism that prevented implementation or delayed the implementation of a series of decisions. With the change in the administrative mechanism of hospitals, this normalizes. In fact, from the hospitals to which commanders have been appointed, the nuisances toward us about "it happens", "it's broken down", "it's missing", "the other one is missing" and all that stuff. The situation is balanced. How do you think a thousand two hundred supplementary doctors were appointed from October to today? With a daily entrepreneurial of my own personal, Andrea Blonde and all the mechanism that exists at the Ministry of Health in order to really get a machine ahead. There are other examples like what you say. For over a year and a half, people were blocked in the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. There were only two employees on the way to the people they were on the phone with. I was told by myself at the time I was State Secretary for the Interior and I had an office there. Dana, move from the hospitals. I say, "How much do you do the day? You're doing fifteen? Do you make 20 to go?’ 'No', it says 'when they call us, we do'. That was the answer. That's the state we've received. And I say it like that. Right now we're not there. Because in the decision that we took and in the parallel programme this has been greatly simplified. The responsibility has been transferred by the three ministers who had to sign up for a move of an official - even from Heraklion to Chania - and now is by decision of the commander of the healthcare region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u9	But they did not go any further, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u10	Listen. Right now - and I'll say it like that - we've stopped some things. The M.D. in Tymbaki will work. We have also announced doctors' positions, and whatever needs to be done will be done. You can be sure of that. As the Sfakians did, it will work the Polypower in Tympaki and you will be sure of it. I don't throw out any air words. The point is there are still attempts to move some people from here, because the mechanism still works. We've cut off the wings of this mechanism. We have said that now that two mass notices are coming out, as they are starting and coming after a six-month delay until the final results of the ADP, from the nine hundred eighty-five that we issued in November, have already taken over service in hospitals over two hundred within fifteen - twenty days that we pressed the whole system to do so. Some people have to go. In the thousand six hundred sixty there's a lot of nursing staff. The other ones signed by Mr.Vernardakis and Mr.Huliarakis for the PYS which came out, there are eight hundred people from Athens. There will be a massive staff union in Athens. We have a huge demand from people who serve in urban centres to move to the province. This cannot be satisfied unless Athens is strengthened. The same is true in the large central hospitals in Crete and the entire region. You can't take a nurse from Chania or Venizelos and take her to a health center. You can't do that. We need to cover the need to go. It is a different thing to start the operation of a hospital - there you will do such weightless things - and it is a different thing to go to an 11th nurse in a health center by taking the one that, with her presence, ensured the operation of the emergency department and short hospitality. Because things like that happened. Some things were really set up. Let me give you another example. It is not possible for the only EEA pharmacist in Chania to move to "Attica", because the decision that was made said "working in EEA". He didn't say where he was working and that he was unique. There are such things going on, which, the more time goes on, the more we'll control them. And for the heart surgery, I want to say a word. Look. There were five hundred and eighty-five people to call the staff there. It was thought that elsewhere there were more pressing needs, because we had to cover some of the things that were falling. On the other hand, PAGNE's heart surgery doesn't have a little medical staff. There could be some more surgery to do on the basis of the cover that the intensive care unit gives them. From that point on, we will fill this gap on the basis of the new notice, because they have many 'takings' and the world that is now coming from both nursing and the proclamation of the first of the permanent ones and the next coming out in a few days that will be recruited by the rolling table of the previous notice, so we will not be much delayed in their appointment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u11	Tymbaki's office has to work in August.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u12	Please, Mr. Igoumenides. No interactive conversation. The fourth under number 545/15-2-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulia to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKAB will not be discussed. The first one, with number 1145/18-7-2016, is a top-stage question for the first-stage question of the new Republic of Athens MP Miltiadis Varvitsiotis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the relocation of the Submarine Missions/LS - ELACK, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the questioner. The first question under number 5531/23-2016 - the cycle of petitions - by Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the immediate payment of the respondents to contracted doctors from the EPPOY, will not be debated because of the impediment of the honourable Member. The third question will be discussed under number 1044-27-2016 of the first cycle of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannidis to the Minister of Health on the professional and work upgrade of assistant nurses. The Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paulakis, will answer. Please have the floor, Mr Karayannides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have been in the health sector for many years, and perhaps you know more than I do. But we have a matter that the state has been refusing to deal with for decades. Nurse assistants, for that is the question I have tabled, are 50% of the nursing staff in our country. The assistant nurses, in name, because they are basically nurses, are the people, the women and the men who have supported the hospitals over the past decades, and indeed with very little effort, with very little money and very hard conditions. They are the people, however, who are called to be nurses in fact, but assistants on paper. This creates a number of problems, mainly criminal, because when you really circumvent the law, because it is not possible, you have to deal with many issues, when things are not going well or go wrong. So we have a 2001 presidential decree, 210, which does not even give the right to intramuscular injection. In other words, their most important professional right is denied by this presidential decree. At the same time, however, we have hospital administrations that give them the responsibility of clinics, especially at night shifts and night shifts. At the same time as we regard them as assistant nurses, we are also responsible for clinical trials and are in a tragic contradiction in the sense that the state cannot use them, because it needs them, on the other hand, not to recognise them what they have already done over the years. We must discuss seriously and in particular how this injustice, this dishonoring treatment from the state to the nurses, in essence assistant nurses and nurses, will be solved and who are your own time horizons, so that we can settle a story that lasts at least forty to fifty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u14	The Deputy Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u15	I would start where you've finished, Mr. Karayannides, because it's really a story that lasts forty years. We have all experienced it in the health sector and in the public sector, but also in the private health sector. You're really right. In fact, half of the health system is based on PPC nurses, from which one comes from the past and continues to produce. We are now hiring, opening up, because this is how the hospital's organic positions are and we have a situation where precisely because of the shortages these people are forced to do work that they should not, in theory, do. Because I like to say a few things with their name and commit myself to things I can commit, clearly and as political leadership the right to demand. There are two data. It must be cleared up, a comprehensive political decision must be made. Do we want one, two or three levels of nursing staff training? This is a political decision that has not been made by anyone. We have to take her. I recognize it. I recognize that we should take her. Secondly, if we take this decision and say that they are two levels, those who are currently serving, what should be done? It's obvious that you have to decide what to do when you have a staff who is fifteen years old and do practically the same job with the TE or even the IP, which is doing lower tasks. Why is there a back-up example, huh? He also has university education officials who are supposed to be sectoral authorities, heads, etc., and who do classic hospitals because the staff isn't enough. What about this staff? Shouldn't he be homogenized after he's already serving? And then you say I have a time limit from now on, guys, let's go. Those who are serving so far must be treated in this way, through a new rapid training program, through the completion of a few years that will recognize them the rest of the six hundred hours of training they do not have, in relation to TEs, others. This is a political decision to be taken and, of course, a Minister cannot take it on his own. There has to be a specific suggestion, because if you don't have a social agreement from the sector that concerns him, it doesn't walk anything. Plans stay epic. The National Council for the Reconstruction of Nursing - which we are now reconstructing - will be tasked with presenting a proposal in the direction that I said before. Because they really need to be separated, and these people must be homogenized. Once they do the same job, they have the same reward. There is also the problem of the situation in which our country is situated, because this also means such a change, but this can be done at some point in time. Of course, a decision must be taken, which creates dissatisfaction, rivalries, competition, malfunctions in hospitals for forty years, which have not been touching them. We know it's our destiny to touch it. We'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u16	Please, Mr Karayannides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u17	Because you have put it right where the issue needs to be raised: the state has to decide how many classes of nurses it wants in hospitals. With this logic, then, first of all, the state must decide to close all these postgraduate schools and decide whether it needs chamber assistants, which will provide simple care to patients and see how we will proceed with the staff that is already in existence. Because right now, the postgraduate nurses who have come out of these schools are doing five semesters. Their education is so intensive, and it is even acknowledged that their education is the same as the education of students at the TEI. It's the same lessons and education. So there's no question of hours. They have experience, because we are talking about nurses who have five years and more experience in the hospital, because such nurses have not been hired in the last five years. So we're talking about a staff from five years to thirty, who's currently working in hospitals. For them, then, nurses and nurses must make a change in the 1989 law so that they can homogenise, as you rightly said, not for any other reason, but as a recognition of the efforts they have made over the years, which have worked illegally over the years. We have to say this because, at the moment, nurses and nurses - assistant nurses, as they say - are in hospitals and are doing all the medical actions by nurses and nurses of technology or university education. If an evil happens today in any hospital, these people are involved. Indeed, the presidential decree does a trick, which I want to hear. He says the Presidential Decree: “As well as any act of nursing the medical practitioner responsible, on condition that the exclusive responsibility is exercised by the nurse, who decides whether the diplomat in the specialty of assistant nurses may, in this case, be performed safely for the health of the sick”. What's he doing here? There's supposed to be a higher education nurse who says to an assistant nurse "do this." What does it call it? Objection. If anything bad happens, who's covered and who's not? Definitely not the assistant nurse. So we solve the problem. The issue - I say again - is when, in intensive treatment units, in implant units, at night or in the afternoon, the hospital is an assistant nurse, in essence, the presidential decree is being destroyed. This presidential decree anyway never worked, because the needs of hospitals were such that it could not work. So we have to decide, firstly, to change the '89 Act', secondly, to homogenize this story. I understand the rivalry in both the WTO and the hospitals between nurses, but it cannot work any more. If the WTO - or any of their other collective bodies - cannot end up somewhere, we cannot extend this injustice any longer, which over the years consists of at least two, not to say three categories of nurses who do the same work. Others are paid more and have other duties, and others are paid less and have other duties and other duties. Inside, therefore, the effort of this government must absolutely complete this effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr Karayannides. Mr Paul Paulakis, Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u19	I don't have anything to add. I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u20	We move to the tenth under number 899/23-5-2016 timely question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Christos Boukokorous to the Minister of Health, concerning the exclusion of Volos Hospital from the ESDP programme. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Paul Paulakis. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u21	Minister, on the occasion of Mr Igoumenidis' question, I see that you have a programme for the towns of Crete, for EKAV stations, for areas where necessary - and you are doing very well - because Crete offers a lot to the national economy. I would like to inform you, however, that the cosmopolitan Skiathos, which also offers a lot of tourist products, has left it with an ambulance driver and has recently been in two cases of serious injuries, the town's cleaners have been forced to carry the patients. The images made the round of the world and of course did not discredit the tourist product of Skiathos but the tourist product of Greece. Look at it. You do well to plan and plan for Crete, but there is the rest of Greece. I carry you the great problem of Skiathos. So we hope that the political leadership of the Ministry of Health, Mr. Minister, will also look at Skiathos. Now I don't know if it makes sense to discuss today's question, given that he's been filed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u22	It's solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u23	Nothing has been solved, Minister, no delusion. Don't keep sticking to the delusion. It was then submitted on May 12, and today it is August 1st. Good month, by the way. The question was about the projects at Volos Hospital. And before I refer to them, I would like to inform you that absorption in the projects at Volos Hospital during the previous programming period was 100%. The Scientific Committee of the Volos Hospital therefore tabled a number of proposals for projects concerning the new programming period. Your Ministry's final NRW structure in early May had provided a report, which did not include any work for Volos Hospital. There were great reactions, Mr. Xanthos came to Larissa, there was a panthesaic meeting and there is his commitment that he will eventually join the Volos Hospital the hemodynamic laboratory in combination with the coroner and the ultrasound, complete the complex, a budget of 800,000 euros. The NSRF resources for Thessaly are about 7,000,000 euros. The 800,000 euros are neither consistent with the population of Volos and Magnesia nor with the growth of the population in the summer months nor with the need to serve the Northern Sporades complex nor with the absorption of the previous period, which I told you, nor with the real needs of the Volos Hospital. Minister, this is a abandonment. And Volos from your Government, at whose party in January he gave 45% - and I wonder how you look into the eyes of Voliots, you of SYRIZA - is excluded from all employment programmes. He's even excluded from the civil-type health centers you recently announced. And all the Volo Hospital projects are excluded. In my dentistry, I will tell you what the proposals of the Scientific Committee were. But I want a serious answer, because you are excluding Volos Hospital from the next seven years, which has so many needs and serves hundreds of thousands of citizens and hundreds of thousands of tourists in the summer months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u24	Mr Paul Paulakis, Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u25	Listen, Mr. Bukoro. Your story's good, but there's no dragon!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u26	It's self-righteous, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u27	I don't have any illusions. It's self-righteous you have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u28	It's a painful reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u29	In May, when you tabled the question, yes, a story was set up, the one set up by various mechanisms on the right and on the left that "they are abandoned, they come out, they don't do" etc. None of this is true and the question had been answered in full and the political leadership of the Ministry of Health and Local Members has been announced. Because you are talking to me about absorptions, to tell you, in other words, that out of 160 million of the new NSRP, the infrastructure programme, 135 million, are committed - listen to me, because you spoke about absorptions - from projects in the previous period, which were not implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u30	I talked about Volos Hospital. Don't twist what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Buquarre, you will be given the floor. Don't interrupt, because that's not how it's going to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u32	I repeat the number to inspire it. Of the 160 million, which has the infrastructure programme for the NRP from now on, 2014-2020, 135 million are committed by projects in the previous period, which have not been completed. So the absorption picture you're talking about is a little magical. Secondly, on the basis of this, and on the basis of the commitments that we have made, and on the basis of a very good agreement and debate, which we have had with Mr Agorastos - because as you know now there is no sectoral health, health and infrastructure programmes go through the Committee of the Regions' MAGP - we have agreed that the CT in Carditsa will also be purchased and the MRI in Larissa will enter and the haemodynamics in Volos will be made. Based on the product of discounts, which will be made by transport projects, there will be a real reallocation of funds for a number of things that have been requested by hospitals and which we will try to incorporate after completion and certain tenders that have been committed and that have been made available. And because you brought Crete as an example, the whole of Crete has committed itself the next period for the infrastructure programme since the expansion of Venizelos. Let me say some things about there. For example, the extension study of Venizelos cost EUR 2,85 million, with the fine they ate. Because a law passed by Mr. Souflias, which is from your wider region, said that if a study on a health work is carried out by the health care district or the Ministry of Health, as it was then, prices are multiple than by the municipality or the local district. The project is currently committed by EUR 14 million, while it does not exceed 7 million, based on the prices available. So your question doesn't have any content. Clearly all hospitals in Thessaly, as elsewhere, have received from the new NSRF. The proposal on haemodynamics is the proposal made by hospital operators as the first priority, and if there is any possibility - as far as I can see - other projects will be included in the Volos Hospital and in the Larissa Hospital in the NSRF of the next period's infrastructure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u34	Minister, let's get together. First of all, if the question is content or not, let the citizens of Magnesia judge it, the medical staff and the hospital of Volos. From far away we come to conclusions. First of all, I told you about the absorption at Volos Hospital and understood as punishment the fact that Volos Hospital is being excluded today because during the previous programming period it was very absorbent. You have taken the total absorption of health projects to build your fairy tale, which also has no dragon, Minister. From there, you didn't say a word about Skiathos, as if you didn't hear it, which is with an ambulance and seventy thousand visitors right now, and we're going to be a global subject at some point. As far as Volos Hospital is concerned, Minister, in order to come to an agreement, I believe that I am making good criticism from the Magnesian society. Yes, although the haemodynamic laboratory was absolutely necessary and necessary and, of course, it is a common component of the opinions of local actors. I told you, however, that this is not enough for the next programming period. You are not making a commitment. You generally say that they will get away from the competitions and work will be done. I want you to make a political commitment today to the MRI. "Akilopoulos" Volos is the only one of Thessaly that does not have a magnetic tomographer. In the past one and a half years there have been sixteen thousand MRIs at a huge cost and, if you like, I tell you in detail. It has been estimated that the MRI of Volos Hospital will pay off, Minister, in nine months. And it can also be part of the Public Investment Programme. But make a commitment to the people of Magnesia. From there on, there are other serious demands from the medical world, which are neither opposition requests nor demands from trade unions. They're really demands, because you know who the managers are at Volos Hospital, Minister of Health! And they are fully trained and work for the benefit of Volos Hospital, apart from close party and trade union perceptions. That's them, Minister. There's a call for digital surgery. Why is the NSRF not modernising, then what is it doing? Ten beds asked Volos Hospital for the artificial kidney unit. It's a hospital that, apart from a magnetic tomograph, has no radiological complex. It serves two hundred and fifty thousand permanent population and hundreds of thousands of tourists in land and island Magnesia. Are you prepared to make some commitments here today that, either from the Public Investment Program or from the abundance of the NSRP contests, these necessary life projects, these breathing projects, will be implemented for the Volos Hospital? Can you make such a political commitment today? That's what I'm asking you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u35	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u36	Listen to me, Mr. Bukoro. I would have liked your passion to have shown it and three, four years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u37	I wasn't a congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u38	Whoever was in your position. I think you had MPs in Magnesia. I know very well that both the issue of laparoscopic machinery and digital surgery and the radiological machine - which costs are not too high - based on programming will also get those three with a degree of certainty over 99% in history.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u39	We're keeping this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u40	And you'll keep what I say. The subject of the MRI has been raised. He didn't get into relation to the coroner as the top priority. That's why we put the coroner on. That's why I can't commit myself, because I need to see what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u41	There is also the Public Investment Programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u42	And from the Public Investment Program. I commit to what I can commit. We have made a huge effort in many parts of Greece to restore wounds that have been open for years. This thing takes time. It can't be from one moment to the next. But the things I told you before will come in. Because the amount is not too large and can be covered. On the subject of the magnetic tomography, I've answered you. I can't give that answer right now. The haemodynamics came in, which is a very serious cost. And I'll say a word about Skiathos and her ambulance. Look, Mr Bukkoro, in the EKA - because there are some other questions afterwards - we are making a huge effort after many years, firstly, to strengthen staff and, secondly, to get ambulances. With a competition, which started in 2007, we get half the ambulances, that is, ninety, we now have a huge struggle and we give them to eight regions across Greece. And we're not only going to Crete, but to Western Macedonia, to Epirus, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u43	Personally you can appoint for such cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u44	Listen to me. There are also staff scheduled to be recruited in Greece and moved from the centre to the region insofar as the centre is strengthened. And at the moment, another fifty rescuers are being added to the EKA rescuers by the yesterday's CAR for the Host Restoration Centres. For eight hundred and fifty people we have forty people rescued the EMCDDA. I remember three people going to Larissa. I don't generally remember about Thessaly. We're really making a huge effort, which is a bet on us. We have reopened the competition - and we do not want it to last eight years that the previous one held - for a hundred and seventeen ambulances, in which there are Larissa and there are also Thessaly, as there are in Athens. Also, you should know that a huge effort is being made, several of the ambulances replaced with the new ones - and this thing has already been done - which is dignified and functionally strengthening points that they had not. And, secondly, there should be synergies between the drivers of health centres and the drivers of the EMCDDA. That's what's going on and it's performing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u45	But Tsipras said in his question in 2011, “EKAVITS only”, “Exclusively of EKAB”, he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u46	Listen, can't a guide to the health center with an EKAB rescuer on an island like Ios, with three hundred incidents a year, cover a very large part of the needs? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u47	I would refer you to the 2011 question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u48	Please, Mr Bukkoro, this cannot be the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u49	So is Skiathos and the rest. Well, that's how it's gonna be. We will make use of all the possibilities available to meet the needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. We move to the second with number 5192/5-2016 question - the cycle of petitions - questions - by MP II Athens, New Democracy Mr. Gerasimios Giakoumatos to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the "Mantzavinateio" Hospital in Lixouri. Mr. Yakoumato, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, health and health issues are neither party-related nor political acuity. We are talking about health, about the most valuable item, which may be about your relatives tomorrow, may tomorrow be a negligence and a delaying policy not to solve a problem, to have deaths of loved ones, of ours and of the people. We're talking about life and death. So here they don't fit any magic, no magic, nothing. This is only where to find a consensus. I won't tell you that health was great and SYRIZA came and destroyed it, no! There's always been problems. Can we find a way to find an understanding of how we can best deal with this misery? And especially in Lixouri, which is a sensitive area, with major earthquakes recently, an earthquake, where the inhabitants are being tried hard. We have the "Manjavinate" Hospital, where in 2012 it had fifty beds and now it has twenty, i.e. thirty beds were removed and the staff decreased by 80%. I'm not saying it's your fault. To find a way here to have a dialogue, how can we help the Lexourists? Because it's not just Lexiri, it's more general, but I'm tracking it here, because that's the question. For example, Minister, it has five skilled seats. What the hell? Who's going? Take me out of five seats and put three rural doctors in. Here's a proposal we can help the hospital to work on. We need to find some ways so we can really work it out. If it is, let's turn it off. We cannot say that we have a hospital, the "Mantzavinateio" in Lizori and the hospital don't exist. It is a disintegration, a complete decomposition of the "Mantzavinaceio". So you have to make the decisions. And decisions are not easy, but a solution must be found. So I urge you to see what can be done. I made a suggestion for rural doctors, to find something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u52	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u53	Mr Yakumato, I have to answer this question because there is a problem there and we have to resolve it. To the General Hospital of Lixouri they have moved from the General Hospital of Kefalonia to serve residents for a year, a pathologist doctor, a doctor of general surgery, an orthopedic doctor, in addition to a general doctor from Vardas Ilias Health Center and several rural and general doctors from the Centre for Health of Symis. This is being done as an attempt, in fact, to meet the needs of care for the local residents. During the Great Week, the pathologists of the Lixouri General Hospital were asked to be assisted in order to be able to meet the needs of inauguration in Argostoli and to become a "eastern issue".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u54	But it's still going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u55	Following the meeting of the doctors of the two hospitals - both the General Hospital of Kefalonia and the General Hospital of Lexouri, as well as the doctors of the Sami Health Center and the Argostoli Health Unit - a joint on-site programme has been established for the safe and orderly functioning of the health structures of the island. But here's what happened. There was a problem with the "Mantzavinateio", because of the political choice we took, and we know how long the demands of permanent staff have been made, so that they can be implemented, etc. In the positions that we have announced in total for the General Hospital of Kefalonia, which is interconnected, there is a pharmacist who is now coming from the 4K notice of the AAC, there are three people from the five hundred five ancillary staff, a TSE of radio- radiology, a TSE of obstetrics and a TIP of pharmacists. There was also a notice from the CEDEFOP, from which a notice has been hired, if I am not mistaken, one and one. Be careful, while a total of thirteen persons, three doctors, and the rest of the nurses, had an interest in two persons, which we took. Thirdly, in the notice that comes out within the next few days and goes from the rolling table of the previous one, which has already begun and go to hospitals, if you have heard it, eight people have been declared. Two people are for the center of mental health, and from there on, it is a TE radiology - radiology, a TE nurse, an IEO of medical and biological laboratories, an IEO of assistant nurses and two psychologists again for the center of mental health. We have also announced two curators II pathologists, a curator II surgeon, a curator II ophthalmologist and two paediatric psychiatrists for the center of mental health. A total of six people are. We increased the budgets of both the Argostoli Hospital and the Lixouri Hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u56	I'm a collector.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u57	I know. They're connected to the hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u58	But we're talking about Lexouri.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u59	Watch out now. At the Lixouri hospital, you had a grant of EUR 210,000 last year. We have finally given EUR 240,000 and this year we have raised the budget to EUR 277,000. Also, he had not made a request for subsidiary doctors at the Lixouri Hospital. I have to tell you that we have the possibility of getting subsidiary doctors and we have now come to an agreement with the new administration to get an invitation to this thing. There's a problem if the doctors choose it to go. Because, you know, when we had such a long migration in previous years, the first hospitals to pay for it because of this migration, either in relation to the coverage of skilled or - much more - and the permanent ones that were not being proclaimed. Now, however, we are proclaiming. The hope is that half the applications from the seven hundred and fifty places of the permanent doctors that we have announced are from our children who have left. In other words, a climate begins to come back from the moment the labour horizon opens. Know one thing: We don't close, we only open hospitals, as we recently did with Santorini. We'll also support such hospitals. There is another question from Mr Koutsoukos about Amaliada. We won't let any hospitals and no structures close. We will support everything as well as the financial possibilities we have at the moment. We have already made the political choice, and we will repeat it next year, in 2017, with a further increase in the health budget, beyond the total of 300 million that we gave in September last year. For 2015, it was EUR 150 million and for 2016 another EUR 150 million and the payments to the hospitals are normally implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Yakumato, you have the floor for three minutes, for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u61	I, Minister, am trustworthy. And because I have a minister in front of me, two meters, with mustache and Cretecaro, I'm telling you that I'm going to take the Minutes with what you said and cover me. And since I'm going to get the Minutes from what you said, I wish I wouldn't come back, because I think there's some beige in here. That is, we're talking about health, we're not mocking citizens. So be sure that if what you said is done, I will be publicly praised at the end of September. Otherwise, fire in our boots! Both. That's the first. Secondly, I understand, so far there has been a wrong system, that the subsidiary has been for a year. Who's gonna go for a year? You've done it for three years. It's a good motive, that's right. Perhaps we can see in some areas - I had asked for it in the New Democracy too, and it did not - what will happen? Mr President, in order to do a private clinic - why should they go parallel with private and state health and there are clinics, has Greece not been banned - on islands that have less than twenty thousand inhabitants, can the clinic - be opened - as the Presidential Decree says - and instead of fifty beds, have thirty or twenty? Let us think about this, to be able to fill some gaps that the state cannot, because the state cannot cover everything. It's a solution. Let's see in some areas if the adjunct is three, it's five. Being three years in general, but in an area far away to find some incentives for rural doctors. There's no other way. Because notices are made, the posts are not covered. So, what does he need? Let's put the "turkey" on. So make an effort. You're a government, you have the sole responsibility to find me an incentive so that they can go and I'll look into this. I will now go down, speak and see if by the end of September what you said has been approved. I hope you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Yakumato, we do what we say. We'll be here and I'll see you around.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u64	We'll see about it in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u65	Always. Because we're what we do and not what we say. I've said it many times. Secondly, we have given incentives, Mr Yakumato. For example, three hundred rural doctors - and within them are your homeland - have received the allowance of 300 euros as barren medicine, in order to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u66	The periphery gives this away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u67	No, no, you don't understand. The state gives it. The state budget's giving it up. If you did not understand, we voted in the parallel programme that the Ministry of Health - and that is what we did - can be reprinted on the list of agricultural doctorates and provide for a financial allowance for that. A joint ministerial decision was issued by health ministers and the Ministry of Finance, which produced a list of three hundred rural doctors throughout Greece. There's a lot on the Ionian Islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u68	There aren't any.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u69	Listen to me, there are. Which provides for a financial allowance - what was used to be called EUR 150-200 - is EUR 400 - in order for rural doctors to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u70	Then why do the regions give it to them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u71	Listen. These are extra of the district authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u72	Is it over it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u73	More than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u74	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u75	That's right. That's why there's one more now. In fact, we solved it because it was not allowed because of the explanation given by some Commissioners as to whether they could give money.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u76	That helps.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u77	We solved that, too. And that's a serious motive.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u78	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u79	And auxiliaries doctors and agrarians, spending.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u80	You solved this, I saw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u81	Secondly, we have given incentives - and Kefalonia is included in them, and Lefkada, like other islands - so that people who go to specialize there can make the first part of the specialty, as an incentive to be able to put the papers on the same specialty at the same time. They're modulated. Also, those who choose to go to a position there either for a barren doctor or as a permanent post are more inclined to occupy a post later. The parallel programme for both the Aegean islands and the Ionian islands provided for much in order to support the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u82	I wish, I wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u83	From there on, what I told you is true is not on paper. They're determined, they're scheduled, the doctors' notices have been made, and we're really waiting to see the interest in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u84	Next is the fifth under number 944/3-6-2016 topical question of the first parliamentary cycle of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health, concerning patients who operate at their own expense at the University Special Hospital of Thessaloniki "ASHEPA". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Paulakis. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, too, to make a general comment. Minister, today's process is dedicated to you as far as I can see. While I agree with the colleague who said a moment ago - and I think we all agree here and you and everyone - that health issues are of major and national importance, and these and need understanding, but, Minister, my two questions, at least after so many months of being here - if you were kind enough to listen to me at least -...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u86	I hear you, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u87	Be well. So I keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u88	I can do eight things at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u89	You're Napoleon, modern! Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u90	Origen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u91	Origen, in fact! Let's go down. Mr Minister, the question that has now been debated has been tabled on 6 June. I'll come to her now. The next thing I have to discuss with you has been tabled on 14 March. I would like to ask you this: really, if you say so, why do you want to solve problems, Mr Minister? Why should we wait so that our questions are no longer timely? I come to the point and you'll understand what I mean. You remember very well, as we all remember, that two months ago, at the beginning of June, a loot was caused in Greek society and especially in Northern Greece, because at the University Hospital "ACHEA" there were complaints - specifically the WTO workers made complaints and not to tell me that they were set up, because they were not set, as was shown by developments and events - that the hospital board made acceptable donations to patients in order to get over the list and to operate immediately. This does not precede, Minister, and I hope, not only with your ministerial status, but also with your medical status, that you agree with me. You know very well that “AHEPA” Hospital is one of the largest hospitals, it is a lung hospital in Northern Greece and accepts special cases from the surrounding prefectures, which hospitals in other counties cannot serve. It's a major hospital, and in the hospital this has been this incident. And this is being destroyed - and I think we can agree here again - the quintuosia of the ERC. Of course, donations to the ESS are acceptable and no one demonizes them. At least we don't demonize donations. In fact, I learned that he also opened a child hospital at the hospital with a serious donation. So no one's demonizing donations. On the contrary. However, when you donate, in order to interfere with the list of patients, which is for surgery, you understand that this destroys the very concept of ERC. Mr President, I believe that you too will agree with me. Minister, I am looking forward to your reply because it was known that the prosecutor intervened and the Minister Xanthos sent the file to the audit bodies as he had to. So, since he has lost his timeliness, is it not going to be timely again from the answer you're going to give me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u92	Thank you. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u93	Madam President, it is clear that it is an unacceptable practice that has been done there, and it is obviously an initiative by the hospital, which has taken place in the past few years. We are trying to make it clear - and this is probably the case - whether this has started in 2014, not only in 2015 or 2016. I'm sure it was in 2015, from the beginning. We've been looking to find out if it's happened since 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u94	No matter where it happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u95	Listen to me. Unfortunately, there was a situation. It has stopped now, as you understand - it is clear - and not only by the prosecutor, but also by a political order. It has also stopped, because the funding of hospitals has been normalized. The excuse, they say, is that we didn't have money to buy and we had the patients do it. If possible now, the fives and the tracosars! I have some decisions here that concern the beginning of 2015 to buy a circular inhibitor, a staple surgery tool, which makes 300 or 400 or 500 euros, which the hospital accepts as a donation, to operate the patient and, of course, to put him ahead. Look, there were other problems with various. Because it is a hospital, which does many specialized things, there was a problem in connection with its supply with materials, which has been solved. It has increased and its budget from the state budget this year has also received the exceptional grant last year and the situation has normalized. There will be no such problem again. What I would like to say is that I would expect the reaction of the WTO much earlier and not in 2016. I'd be waiting for her from the beginning of 2015 when she first saw it. And you know why I'd expect it? Because a member of the PTHEE General Council was and is a member of the Board of Directors of the Hospital, elected by the employees, and the decisions of the board of directors that have accepted the donations are also signed. I am not talking about 2016, but at the beginning of 2015, when we had not yet sat on the chair and did not know what was going on in a series of hospitals or controlled the system. This year, as you know, the administrations have changed. These decisions I have, they have the signature of this lady and I would expect this thing to do last year, not this year. Because, yes, we didn't know. We couldn't even think of it. Once we have seen this, clearly it has stopped and, of course, the operation has been normalized. However, the story of the settling was about it, because I was provided with decisions by the board of directors, where the particular lady, who came out front and denounced it, is from April 2014, a member of the hospital's board of directors. And here, I have some decisions that concern the first months of 2015, to which he has advocated the acceptance of donation. Why didn't he make the complaint in 2015, get it sooner and stop it? But then, we didn't control any administration, we didn't have any contact, and too many people didn't give us any account for what they did. Why is he doing it in 2016? What's the point? That's the question I'm asking. That is why the view was then expressed in relation to it being a well-established story. Do you think that if we knew this thing from February, in March 2015, would we not have stopped it, as we did now? That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u96	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I do not want to cover any board members either being a member of the WTO or being any other member. Nor has my question or a party of purpose been identified in time. I want to see the point. The point is, when he came to the light, then I asked the question. And I'm saying, there's nothing bad in that it's bad that you're late to answer us, but at least, after two months have passed, you might have had more to tell me than what you said to me now. Apparently, you don't have to tell me anything more. And I know it's not up to you to have because history has left the Department of Health. If not, you might tell me now where the check is. So this question was not intended to come to light this matter. He came by himself in the light. My question didn't bring it to light. I don't know how old it was, and I don't even care right now, once it came out, since it was. I believe that justice will go to see, the audit bodies will check and the problem will be restored since it has existed. However, you told me, Minister, that the problem of hospital supplies has been solved. And because, as you have said, this problem is very acute, and it concerns specialized materials for urgent cases, for example, brain erecting cases, embolism materials, which have been reported to me and which, as you know, are extremely expensive for other cases, I wonder if this increase in the budget that you are talking about will cover the problem, because, as you have said, it is very special. Or I wonder how the problem will be solved. I also wonder whether the fact that we have already discussed in this Chamber and with you and Mr Blonde - more with Mr Blonde as the most competent to deal with this - that the transfer of drugs to the heavy diseases from the Agency back to the hospitals has made it a good faith to make it easier for patients - I recognise that - but it is - and you must see this - the budgets of hospitals, Minister. So the question is clear if the increase in the budget outweighs this increase, due to the transfer of hospital medicines behind the EEAH to the hospital and what other provisions you have received for this very important hospital. I should also like to mention the fact that by visiting Mr. Xanthos this hospital a few months ago when we had the problems of the refugee in Idoed in acidity, he recommended that the staff be patient. I want to tell you that the messages we have are messages that patience is over, that the years are too much, and that we can barely be too big. I want you to tell me any other information you've got on what I asked you. I, too, hold what you have said, because in fact, if it is done and if the problem is solved, you will have the thanks and praise of everyone. If they are not solved, you will have the criticism. And I hope that next time you come quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u98	Thank you. The Minister still has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u99	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, I will be very specific. Once the issue has been made public, we have acted, by sending the SPS and a political mandate, implemented by the new administration, that this thing must be stopped. Secondly, there's a parallel development from the D.A.'s investigation, because this thing is pulling back, apparently. Third, I'll talk to numbers. In 2015 it was planned to get the hospital from the state budget funding - money, not credit, not expenditure limit -19.612.938 euros. The amount, which he received at the end with the exceptional grant, was EUR 22,382,938. This year's budget provides for EUR 21.997.022, i.e. an increase of about 2.5 million of what had been planned last year, which is a serious increase in the hospital's budget. It is also planned to be strengthened by the two notices, the 4K and the 5K, with a total of thirteen people, who are already starting and recruiting. Someone's hired. I repeat that there are thirteen people from 4K and 5K, two PPs, three PPs from patients, three PPs from paramedics, three from nurses, one from managerial secretaries, one from electrical specialists. With regard to ancillary staff, where the final tables to the health regions are also recruited and returned every day from the AACC, it is planned to recruit six people, two APDs, one pharmacist, one health unit commander, a computer, a TE accountancy unit. Since the CEDEFOP notice - for this well-known, the great fuss - there are five people involved. I don't have the picture right now how many people have gone. Five people were predicted. At the moment, I should like to say on this occasion that they have been implemented - I simply do not know the specific distribution for this hospital - forty-eight doctors who have been employed, that is, a hundred forty-six nurses. And, of course, recruitment is still going on even though it is August. Also, you should know that five permanent doctors have been approved and posted in this hospital: Two anaesthetics, a radiator - oncologist and a surgeon, based on the proposals of the hospital and the specific needs it covers. Finally, in the notice that comes out next week - in the thousands of six hundred sixty people, namely - there is a distribution of seventeen permanent staff, nurses, medical biological laboratories, etc. for the ‘ACHEPA’ Hospital. All this is serious staff support, Mrs Christophilopoulou, as well as in money. The problem with drugs, clearly since it was taken, exists. There's an increase in the limit. There's a war going on right now. I'm honestly saying it, and I'm saying it very openly. We are in agreement and in negotiation with the pharmaceutical companies, because they have put up many new medicines that have been replaced, which have done a lot of work, and are trying to replace them and which are devising the hospital budgets. Also, unfortunately, it was never negotiated by the EEA. It's the first time this is happening. I will give you an example for the negotiating committee. We have a medicine that we started for hepatitis C, we pay 70,000 euros, when the German EOPY pays for it 20,000 euros. That's the reality. We, the bankrupt country, pay 70,000 the cure. At the moment, we have asked them for a very serious reduction in this price and they seem to be accepting it. There are also the administrations of the health regions, which do - and the first and second - the big ones, the fourth ones, etc. - negotiations with the pharmaceutical companies to give a serious discount on what they give, because we know they might give it much lower. Anyway, we are in constant communication on this issue and on constant monitoring. We think it's going to be solved and I'll let you know. On this occasion, I would like to tell you that within a week some EUR 127,000 has been paid over the past few years and we have also set a target for the administrations of hospitals up to 30 August to have paid the 571 million of the first instalment that they have taken. They'll do it, because most of what I've been briefed is enlisted. We believe that with a great deal of pressure and a work that the administration of hospitals does this will be a great injection of liquidity into the market. Also, the EEAY will give around EUR 300 million again for outstanding debts, and I think that's a slow balance. We're not in the situation of last October. Indeed, a large number of recruitments will have been completed by September. They will have gone to hospitals, that is, not just will the results have been obtained, as have the thousands of two hundred auxiliary doctors who went from October to April and supported the system. I think we'll spend another day in the health field and next year, in 2017, it'll be even better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u100	The third question will then be discussed under number 3970/15/32016 by the Member of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, on problems in the operation of the surgical rooms of the General Hospital of Elefsina "Thrias". Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u101	Minister, the EEA has a very big problem. Only the debts of the insurance funds to the EEA in one year have gone from EUR 600 million to EUR 2.3 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u102	Where did you get that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u103	I found this evidence and it's deposited.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u104	You should tell me, too, because I don't know. I've never heard of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u105	Minister, I'm telling you there's a big problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u106	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, I'm sorry, this element, in which painting, on what accounting did you find it? Because I know them and they don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u107	I'll send you both the painting and the accounting. Because it's not a question of social security, I don't have it with me. But I'm telling you what I know and which is in my office. I promise to send it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u108	You can send it to me, but I'm telling you it's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u109	We have Minutes. Everything you say is recorded and what I say is recorded. Mr President, I would like a little more time, because I haven't even gotten into this. In any case, I have another number, for which, if you wish, you can tell me: Since 2014, we have had sixty thousand sixty-five employees in the National Health System. Today we have sixty-one thousand four hundred eighty-one. You have had the nineteen and sixteen recruitments of medical and nursing staff, for which I do not care what your predecessor did - a follow-up is this government - but now you are telling me that they are being implemented, that we are overcoming the problem of old invitations. And you may have increased them and I wish you could increase them further. That's what we'll force you to do! But don't say nice words, because right now, the situation in hospitals is tragic. They don't even have gauze! I now come to 'Thriasio'. The "Thriasio", Minister, is not just the hospital that serves Elefsina, Aspropyrgos or West Attica. The "Thriasio" is a hospital, which is in the heart of the road axes of the region, in Athens - Corinth and in Athens - Lamias. It's a hospital, which is right in the middle, in the heart of one of the largest, not to say the largest, industrial area in the country. And it's a hospital that has the burn unit, which also has its problems. So it's a "fire" hospital, not only for residents and workers in the area, but also for travellers, travellers, tourists, people who go to work and travel. It is so many people that it is served by the “Thriasian” Hospital, which is truly of key importance. My question has been pending since March and has mainly been concerned with surgery, Minister. Of the eight surgery, the three are closed. As I am told today - I wish you could give me some information that this situation has been overturned - we have also been lacking staff as a problem and not being able to replace medical equipment. Also, we have many other shortcomings at the “Thriasian” Hospital. I heard there was some staff recently, but there are some complaints that neither enough staff nor the staff they asked for did. The evidence you will give me is very important, to see if we can really give answers. Again, it's not just residents, it's workers and people passing through. The “Thriasian” Hospital is of key importance. It was a key project and I think it should be supported. You said you're supporting all the hospitals, but we need to see this in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u110	Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u111	Mrs Christophilopoulou, I will be very specific: in 2015, “Thriasio” was scheduled to get 12,780,000 euros from the state budget. He finally took 14,545,000 euros. This year, it is planned to take almost 13 million. He's already got the 5,700,000. That's the one. Secondly, from the announcements of permanent staff - I will reply to what you have said, because you have been a little confused, I say this very well, because there have indeed been too many notices in the air lately and there has been a relative confusion - there is the 4K and 5K declaration for these nine hundred eighty-fifths, which we issued last November. While there was a promise by the AACC that he would make the final results in February, he made them on June 1st. Since then we've been masturbating the system. They've been appointed two hundred. Unfortunately, this is the situation in a mechanism. We're chasing it every day, and when I say every day, you know we're chasing from the hospital in the U.S.A. again in the hospital, getting CAR, getting FEC, coming back, calling him to take over. A mechanism has been set up, which controls it every day, which is why within 15 days the 40 recruitments have become two hundred, because otherwise we would still be going, we would have reached eighty and we see. And we'll have until the end of the week, to see where we've arrived. So, from these "Thriasium" they don't get a few. It takes eighteen and six, so twenty-four people in total that are now coming. Inside these are fifteen nurses, eight PMs and seven PMs. Also, ancillary staff begins to come. It was a call made by the health regions for five hundred and eighty-five posts, which came out in April and was made under the criteria of the AACC. The AAP makes the final check on the objections and sends the board. Every day he sends back boards for these. It has five APDs, three APUs and one APUs. These are one of those two notices. Watch me now. The approval has been given for six people, permanent recruitment of doctors. These positions have been announced by both the new administration and the commander before, who is a haematologist or biopathologist, pathologist for the blood division, an anesthesiologist, a pathologist, one of the five specialties for the implant unit, one of the five specialties for the ITH and a pediatrician. These belong to the seven hundred fifty seats, which are new posts, Mrs Christophilopoulou. They didn't exist before, we took them off now. Of the seven hundred sixty, which we have approved throughout Greece, it must be over six hundred eighty or six hundred ninety at the moment, which have been declared. That's why the hospital's definitely been proclaimed. Some TENs have been left for not yet, given some of the latest approvals in the last few days. Also, for subsidiary doctors, twenty - three places were approved. Nine were placed, the twelve were reopened, and if there is interest, they will go. Complementary approval was granted for two others, also covered by the appropriations. These are specific numbers and you can see them with all the details. They're posted and there's no doubt about it. In addition, within the thousand sixty-sixty places, which will come out in the next few days - as I have answered you about AHEPA - there are twenty-seven other for Thriasio. We know what "Thriasio" is and we know what it does on the roads that it is, with accidents at work, etc. So this is a very big injection of personnel. I also know that since the CIF's notice for the IMC has already gone and served a doctor and a nurse and we wait for the rest of us to hire and take over. That's what I think is a serious hospital support. And I come to this surgery specific, where I will tell you three numbers, Ms. Christophilopoulou, and you will tell me your conclusions. I'd like you to hear that. We know that for the last five years and until June 2015 in “Thriasio” they have been operating every day seven to eight surgical rooms. Since June 2015, the operation of the two operating rooms of Latsio has been interrupted and the operation of the central hospital has been restricted to five to six rooms and without the recruitments I told you, because now that they're coming, everything will be opened. Watch me now. I'll read you some numbers to see that some things aren't innocent. In 2013, in the O.R., thirty - seven people were serving surgery nurses. Please note the numbers, and you tell me at the end what had to be done. Of the thirty - seven persons, four were on long -term sick leave. In anesthetics they served fifteen persons, with two persons on long -term sick leave. In 2014, again with seven and eight beds, they served thirty - six people, four in sick leave, and sixteen persons - one more - respectively in anesthetics, again with two persons in sick leave. In 2015 they served forty persons in surgery, with seven in sick leave - that is, thirty - three active, as in previous years - and sixteen in sick leave, in anesthetics. Watch me, these are 2015 data and nothing has changed since then. So, with one person, let me say two less people close two tables a week. Why? How is that justified? Also, be careful, the Laceio has been closed and the anaesthetic machines have come from there. And they didn't sign a service, on purpose. He hadn't signed a service there. And we sent them and repaired them. We did the contract now with the new commander, etc. With this staff, which is the same practical as in previous years, why does the manager take down the beds with which the surgical tables operate? That tells me something. Not to be too bad, but I don't just think about it, I'm sure. Second, now with the staff coming, everything will be opened. I'm not talking about it. We are also making a very great effort to incorporate - and there is money - a large part of the equipment, which is also available in the Observatory's RAP. It will be done on the basis of proposals from the hospital. Since 2013 this conversation has begun. And when they've taken Lacetio's anaesthetics and gone from that band, why don't eight tables work when the staff are the same? Why do they have them in one corner and they didn't work them while they could work them out? What does that tell you? I know very well what she's telling me. He tells me there's an effort of conscious undermining. Now, of course, with the new commander, I think things are getting into a dirt and a row. And with all that stuff that I told you before, I think we're going to get to the point where we want to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u112	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u113	Minister, I'm amazed! Here you are to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u114	I've answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u115	You've given me a lot of answers about the staff to be hired.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u116	He's already hired.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u117	Yeah, someone's gone and someone's going. We'll see about that. I am speaking again, with good faith, and if the staff go and everything works, here we are to say 'Goodness'. But, Minister, you asked questions at the end of your speech and I was really surprised. I would like to explain: I am very sorry, if you have suggested something that you have already said, namely, that some people are undermining - I do not know that and neither can I know it - from where you are, you must and learn it and you must press it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u118	That's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u119	Not just you yourself, but the competent bodies that you supervise as Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u120	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u121	Well, don't tell me that, it's none of my business. I am interested as a citizen and as a politician and as a Member of the region, of course, but I do not care for other reasons, for those who have been implied. I am interested in opening all tables of surgery in this critical hospital, not only for the place I represent, but also for the wider. I am also interested in you to tell me that your suspicions have triggered you to order that the case be sorted out. Did you send anything? Did something happen if you suspect? I think that both you and the health ministers concerned, and in particular the years of the crisis, have exuded the morality of the staff - there are always exceptions, in all systems, - to the heroism of doctors and nurses and all the staff of the ERC, who are making a great deal of effort in conditions that are getting worse and not better, as you have said. I wish people would come and get to work and see better conditions. But we cannot be here in the House and ask me. Don't ask me. Answer me if what you said - and it was very serious, Minister - you have reasonable suspicions. What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u122	We already do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u123	I would therefore turn you back to the question of good faith, and I would like you to tell me if that is really what you think it is, what you are going to do about it. What legal way are you going to find - why do I want you to tell me - to press it? If you can't go to justice. I don't know if you'll like justice because you might not like it, but give it to justice, if it's about justice. What we must not do is sprinkle with suspicions of a daily struggle, which people in the ESS are doing against problems, against their own fatigue and against their biological potentials many times, which you know as a doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u124	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u125	Listen, Mrs Christophilopoulou, we are not the magicians of the tribe, so that we can know what happens inside each hospital at any time, if we don't have information. We didn't have an update on that. We have just received the information, clearly and acted, first through the commander of the Second Health Region, which "occupied" from this hospital, since he was working there and knows some things and, secondly, through the placement of the new commander who went there, who really controls this situation. Because, unfortunately, the man who was in charge of surgery was also the hospital commander and we had no such information.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u126	You do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u127	No, no, the commander. I mean, the commander left and the head of medical service was in charge. Well, obviously, we did. Shouldn't he tell us? Should we smell our fingernails?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u128	But you're asking me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u129	Look, because we didn't fall out of the sky, Mrs. Christophilopoulou, you understand very well what I mean. When I show you some evidence that the staff from 2013 to 2015 are practically no different, how do they close three rooms? That's the question. Your mind doesn't understand anything? He understands me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u130	So tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u131	...and based on this, we worked and we solve it. And we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u132	Do you solve it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u133	Of course, Mrs Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u134	Here we go, let's see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u135	Now that we are in control, now that we have administrations with which we can work together, we are, of course, solving it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u136	I'm waiting for the surgery to be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u137	We move along with the number 1101-7-2016 third time question of the first question of the MEP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Health, on the problem at the Hospital of Amaliada. The Deputy Minister for Health will again answer Mr Polakis. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. It seems to me that I am more fortunate, Mr President, because I have only one month's delay in the timely question. In any case, Mr President, as a member of the Conference of the Bureau of Parliament, you should also consider a change in the Rules of Procedure, which will be called the 'Policy Agenda', because the Deputy Minister has managed to become a 'one man show' at a time when he decides to come to Parliament three or four months later. That is the procedural point, but it also has a substance, because, Minister, the topical questions are about dealing with exceptional problems, for which political responses are needed. Otherwise, there is the procedure for written questions and parliamentary scrutiny. Minister, on the occasion of my topical question, it was the last - one of the many, since every three and a few of them we have - a statement by the Deputy Commander of the FHP at the Western Greek Regional Council, discussing health issues, that he has proposed to close the Amalada Hospital. We are talking about the Amalada Hospital, which every time there are problems in the national health system in Elia, is treated as a "soft substation", with the closure of clinics, personnel transfer etc., as the political leadership ignores that this hospital covers all northern Elias and to the extent that it does not work effectively, it is also the operation of the Tower Hospital, which has its own problems. The Ministry responded with a press release to the uproar of the Amalada people by saying that it will not close the hospital and that it has a recruitment planning. The reality is, at Amalada Hospital, we have empty medical posts. Of the thirty-nine anticipated by the organization, they serve only nineteen. I mean, we've got twenty blanks. And of the two hundred seven other servants, they serve only a hundred and twenty - four, that is, eighty - three blanks. So this communiqué made by your ministry, Minister, regarding the fact that it does not intend to close the hospital, I will take it as a good intention to reach agreement on it. But in practice, if you do not deal with the problems, you are actually leading to the closure of the hospital. On the occasion of this timely question, we would like today to give us specific assurances as to when you will do what you have said in the press release, but also what Mr Xanthos said to us on 12 April, when we visited him with a delegation from the city's institutions, and when the new unit, which is still in operation and to which Greek people's money has been invested with labor and sacrifices, as you know, Minister. We are therefore waiting for your answers, so that the people who are listening to us will actually know what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Kutsuko, first of all, we're opening and not closing hospitals. That's something we've said and we're doing it and we're doing it. The personal view of a sub-command in relation to the crisis, which it has for some things, is not a government policy. Secondly, we cannot close a hospital, which last year was scheduled by your government to get EUR 1433.439 from the state budget. We gave 1.623 000 on the basis of emergency funding, and this year we are planning to get 1,550 000 euros. All of this means we can't close the hospital. If we were to close it, we'd have reduced his funding. We can't close a hospital which is currently taking an E.P.P., based on gaps, from the 4K notice. It also takes three people from the five hundred and eighty-five of the other ancillary staff, while it has already received from the CEDEFOP notice and has signed a contract with a doctor and two HETE nurses, what had been requested, that is. And it stays to see if he's reported a P.T.P.P.P. person. However, out of four people, three have signed a contract. And that's exactly what ID's operating needs are. Three out of a thousand six hundred seats are also available, which are to be proclaimed and approved and published by two pathologists. From that point on, it has been placed and taken by a surgeon as an adjunct and six seats were reopened, because no one was found to go. That's the reality. These positions were therefore reopened. The credits are specific, both positions of pathologists are permanent. There will certainly be applications there, as they exist throughout Greece. So we think that the design there is to do with the fact that the General Hospital of Elias has a total force of three hundred thirty beds and of these two ten are in the Prefectural Unit of Tower, the hundred and twenty in the Amalada Prefecture and the twenty short-stay beds in the Cresteas Nursing Unit, which are practically not in the phase of their full development. I think they give a clear answer on the basis of the situation, which is generally there, as to whether we want to close it or maintain it. On the basis of the rest of the programming we are doing, we will see what we can further strengthen. But I think that's evidence that we don't close a hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u141	Here, Mr Kutsuko, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u142	I would like to take the Minister's political reassurance as a positive sign. Furthermore, Minister, I told you that after the noise that was created and the general uprising, there was a press release on 7 July on the fact that the hospital is not closed. But I want you to see, Minister, that there is another political assurance and what we want to do and what is happening in practice. Here I have the newspaper headlines for the last month. Every day, the local press employs the "lukes", the suboptimals etc. I don't want to show you, take the local press and watch him. The last front page says that the newspapers at the Amalada Hospital can't come out because they quit one anesthesiologist, the other you're looking for. The mechanism that you have told us earlier, in reply to another colleague, that you have installed yourself to see how the notices and the turnout of staff are going seems to have failed to deliver in the specific case of Amaliada. And the accident is, Minister, that in relation to January 2015, staff have fallen even further. That is, in January 2015, we had thirty - five doctors and now we only have nineteen. And has the obstetrics clinic been closed, and have operating problems, and surgery and pathological, as well as how can it go off with an anesthesiologist? Not to talk about nursing, paramedics, paramedics and labs. It is good, Minister, that you come to Amalada one day - we are hospitable - as you went to Lasithi, as you went to Chania, to see them in practice. Because we live the hospital, we go there, we go ours. And I must thank the staff from the Step of the House for their heroic efforts, doctors, nurses, all, thanks to whom it works. But, Minister, at the time that four thousand hospital workers have been reduced during your term of office, saying that by means of a nine hundred-seat notice for all of Greece you will fill these thousands of gaps and give the hospitals life, I think it is a drop in the ocean. In any case, I do not want to go into more general matters, since we have tabled a topical question on health, which has not yet been discussed, but hopefully it will come to Parliament to discuss what is really happening throughout the whole system. I want to see in practice what you have committed and reiterated today that they will come to address the daily problems of its operation. You are a doctor and you know what it means no electrician, that there can be a black - out in the hospital, that the feeding cannot be covered. And these are not treated with subsidiary bodies, Minister. As far as subsidiary doctors are concerned, we have also helped, and we have voted on the relevant provisions, extended the conventions, to cover the gaps. We want another policy and it seems that you do not have that policy. In any case, I would like once again to invite you to visit our city. And I want a clear answer: about five million has been costed by the new wing, which is intended to transport the O.R. and the O.P. Do you have the political will and will you find a way to work? That means we're stepping up the hospital so we don't close it. Because, otherwise, we may say that we are not shutting it down, but in practice its operation is being undermined, staff are being reduced, they are closing clinically, so it is actually being brought to an objective conclusion. I want specific answers on that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u143	You did not say, Mr Koutsouko, because the number of doctors has fallen so much in a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u144	Let the Minister answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u145	No, I'm saying you know that. Mr. Paulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u146	Only if they retired, Mr. Kremastine, or if some people resigned. Second, do I feel in this hospital that there's been some kind of opening or is my memory cheating?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u147	I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u148	He's not cheating on me, Mr. Kutsuko. I have the feeling that in a government that you participated in, and you supported it in the previous period, Mr. Georgiadis had taken a hotel equipment and took him in there, did something inaugurated and then left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u149	My name is not Georgiadis, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u150	You were in a government with Mr. Georgiadis. Because you're saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u151	I wasn't anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u152	And because I have answered a relevant timely question, because I remember very well what I am saying - we have resolved, in cooperation with the regions, the question of the completion of what Mr Georgiadis was going on at that time. Because it's not over. They went and carried hotel equipment from other places, put them in, cut the ribbon and stood up and fled. And there was no personal. The hospital has to finish because it's not over. And he hasn't been received.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u153	He's surrendered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u154	I'm sorry, but you're from there. The hospital hasn't surrendered. Three phases of work has been done and one has been delivered, the other two have not been done and that is why it is not working. Otherwise, they would have gone. So when this work is done, which we will finish, so that it can be delivered, then yes, we will make a series of amendments to the existing agencies, so that they can be transferred to the wing and operate within a better working and hotel environment. That's the one. Secondly, with regard to these posts for permanent staff. Look, I said it before: We did not say that the nine hundred eighty-five will be covered. The positions that have been announced at the moment - listen and measure a little - are as follows: seven hundred and fifty new doctor posts. These are three hundred eighty appointments from old credits, which the previous two governments had not activated them, which are permanent doctors. It's another two hundred and fifty that we've taken again from old crises that we've taken now. Count to see. It's the one thousand six hundred sixty proclaimed next week. These are the hundreds that we will make in September, based on PYS, signed yesterday by Mr. Holiarakis, together with Mr. Vernardakis, but they will basically go to Athens - Thessaloniki, because these eight hundred nursing staff will be strengthened there, so that we can also meet the other requests. Because too many people want to leave and they've been here for years, but Athens and Thessaloniki will be strengthened to leave. Also, they are the four hundred and 100 people of CEDEFOP, a hundred doctors and four hundred nurses, who are for the units or for Artificial Nefruities, etc., where I told you what was happening in Amalada with them. I told you that a hundred forty-six nurses and forty-eight doctors have been appointed. It is the call now for refugee, which is eight hundred and fifty people. It is also a communication we will make in September - which is why I am not saying any more - about how many doctors and other staff we will be recruiting in the next three years, as health has been excluded - and the doctors in particular - from the ratio 1 to 5. Because they cannot threaten us by a fine of not keeping the hours of doctors who have forced us not to be able to appoint for some years, we cannot get people. Of course, in previous years, they didn't take either 1 in 10 or 1 in 5 that they could take, because they wanted the universe to be dissolved. Clearly, I'll come to Amaliada, Mr. Koutsuko. Everywhere I go and turn around all over Greece. And you can be certain that we are working too hard in this ministry and we have no sense of underestimating the parliamentary work - to answer it, because others have put it. But you know what? The easiest thing in this life and in this government situation is to ask a question about health. If you have noticed, most of the answers I give today have the same logic. It is 'what money we give', 'what world we put' and 'what we do in particular for some possible special thing that we do'. Unfortunately, in recent years - and you know it better than me, Mr Kutsuko - a conscious course of dissolution has been followed. We can fix them in a moment, we can't fix them. However, the record of the disaster, which is not as much as you, as the side of the New Democracy has swelled so much, is no longer being implemented. There is no "dragon" anymore. The situation today, despite the problems, compared to October, is much better in many hospitals in many areas of the country. There are problems, clearly there are still, but the signal has been given that we are going for a reversal of the course, that the downhill has stopped, we are stabilizing and we are starting to build. And that's going to get more and more obvious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u155	Thank you. We move to the 11th, under number 1003/14-6-2016, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Health, on the operational problems at the Anticancer Hospital "METAXA". The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Paulakis, again. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u157	Excuse me, Mrs Manolakou. Can I make a request? Because you have about the same question as Ms. Big Economics, could I answer a whole question? It is for the "Metaxas" Hospital and the question tabled by Mrs. Megalo-Economics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u158	Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u159	We agree to conclude the debate, to be discussed together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u160	Mrs. Big Economics, would you like to ask your question, answer the Minister, and give you the floor later?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u161	As the two questions deal with the same subject, I should like to answer a whole question together. Because they're the same things...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u162	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I have tabled the question since 25 April. It's been postponed for three and a half months. Ten times the answer has been postponed. I do not know when Mrs Manolakou has asked a question about 'Transition'. I have been pending since 25 April.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u163	We put her on, retired, and put her back on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u164	I don't know. I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u165	If you agree, the Minister will answer and if you see that the question has not been answered sufficiently, you will ask again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u166	But I do not know whether the two questions are on the same subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u167	The eleventh joint debate, with number 1003/14-6-2016, will then be held on the topical question of the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Health, on the operational problems of the Anticancer Hospital "Meta" and the ninth question under number 825/254-2016, the first cycle of the Parliament, Mr. Theodoras Megalokonos, the Minister of Health, concerning the remnant of the Anticancer Hospital "Metaxas". Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u168	Thank you. Mr. Polakis, besides the Deputy Minister you are a doctor and you have also worked in Piraeus Hospitals. Therefore, you know that Piraeus Anticancer Hospital "Metaxas" is the only one in the wider region of Western Attica, Piraeus and the islands. However, the problems are many, large, acidified and the effects are evident to both patients and workers. The Metaxas Hospital, the only anticancer in the area, has 25% of its potential. The comparison is, of course, about the organic positions which fall short of the real needs. There are shortcomings in medicines, equipment and materials. However, the biggest problem is the lack of a CT scanner. There's one, which is for very urgent, poor maintenance, and the doctors don't trust him. Of course, he does not have a magnetic tomographer, which is unacceptable for an anticancer hospital, which needs to be diagnosed, which needs to monitor the progress of the cancer patients. The lack of staff is very great and it results that people in the 'lists' expect more than three months, with what this means for the disease that the time of diagnosis and treatment is related to their own lives, while discussions are being made about the transfer of the Endocrinological Clinical to the Oncology, where there are not even the planned facilities, such as special toilets for the elimination of radioactive iodine that require many treatments. Moreover, in the Pathologist Lab, workers have left four of seven that exist. They can't even get permission. One of the microtoms - I'm talking about a machine that is necessary for biopsies to proceed and for the doctor to be able to diagnose on time - it doesn't work. Of course, this has consequences and when the patient will immediately initiate the treatment. We are asking you, through this question, to fill the big gaps in medical, nursing and other personnel, with full and exclusive employment, and above all to address the major deficiencies and the CT scanner market, which should be there, as well as a magnetic tomographer. Of course, patients should be abolished for examinations, prescriptions, medications and treatments, since the need for satisfaction in health is a social need.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Manolakou. Mrs. Big Economics, do you want the Minister to answer and then take the floor or fill in?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, I will supplement it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u171	Here, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u172	Mr Minister, after you have postponed answering the question for two and a half months, ten times, I would like to point out in relation to the hospital that the sheets are washed in 'June' because there is no technician to keep the laundry. The CT scanner has been damaged since 2014 and is down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u173	He's not broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u174	The previous Minister of Health, Mr Voridis, had been asked a question before, and he said he would be given a magnetic marker. Not given. I did an on-site investigation. I talked to the administrative staff and the medical staff. I don't have any information I saw on TV or on the press. I talked to both the patients and their escorts. I'll submit relevant documents. Not all staff are covered. There's a nurse every 50 people. Also, in anticancer there are too many disposable shortages. The 2nd RCD had said that five people of different specialties would be recruited since April. I don't know. I do not think they have been made since the 2nd RCF for 'Transition'. The largest anticancer hospital covering the region of Piraeus and the islands have a damaged CT scanner. More likely expect a communication from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation since 2014, that a CT scanner will be donated. I have the relevant documents. Indeed, Minister, the workers, who are not only working, but are carrying out a function, are loyal to the Hippocrates' oath they have given - which you have also given - and are making superhuman efforts. I also spoke to the radiologists and a lady who has been there for twelve years. In fact, he told me that I've taken my role very seriously and I'm not taking him so seriously because I'm gonna need a bed there too. I believe that the death certificate will no longer write cancer, but it will be written dead of a lack of staff. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u175	Thank you. Mr. Minister has the floor. It's a total answer. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think that you want to take the floor again after his denunciation, you will take him back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, I am not going to answer why I have to go to committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u177	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u178	Ms. Manolakou, Ms. Big housekeeper, I'll still answer with evidence, just like I did before. In 2014, the Government of Samaras had budgeted for 2015 EUR 16,454.646 as a state grant to the hospital of ‘Metataxa’. What we finally gave together with the exceptional grant was EUR 19,314,646. For 2016, we predicted that the grant from the State budget of the ‘Metaxas hospital’, a very clear increase and support of the largest volume hospital in the 2nd Health Area, of which 19,589 000, have already been granted to the ‘Metaxas’ hospital. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Secondly, from the 4K and 5K calls of 985 people, they must have been recruited by some of them - seven in total, of whom an IP of physics, an administration-economic, a PPC of medicines and two people of nursing medicine, a person of radio- radiologist and seven of the PPC of nursing. So they are thirteen of the two previous notices. Of the 585 ancillary staff, which are currently employed, there are five financial, health care, two administrative and secretarial posts and one IT post. From the intake of CIC for ICMs, four PTs, TEs and PT nurses have been declared. I don't know how many people have gone from them so far. However, the hospitals in Athens are all covered. There are thirty-four people in the next few days who are nurses, assistants, health workers, physicists, chemistry - biochemicals, etc. So far - not 'they will be proclaimed', Mrs Megalo-Economics left - ten permanent posts of doctors for 'Metaux', and there is also a great interest in the notice. They are three pathologists - oncologists, a pathologist specializing in infectology, a cardiologist, a haematologist, a surgeon, two radiation therapists and a biopathologist. Also, you should know that there were fifteen of them, nine of them went, nine of them were placed, and six of them were re-appointed. Furthermore, because I forgot to say about various hospitals before, since the 1998 ADPs, which now became the ranking and resolution of one year of injustice, go to four administrations at the "Metataxas" hospital. I think that this all creates a serious strengthening of the hospital which, of course, some have become and some is to be done in the very near future. We know that the world has set back, we know that in recent years the situation has been dramatic, but I think that the coming of these people will really be a great relief to the hospital. As far as the rest is concerned, the CT scanner is old. It covers internal patients, but it doesn't cover external patients. You also need to know that he went forward and on our own initiative, from last October - November, we took over, the PET - CT, which was installed there, the second that worked in a public hospital. The radio isotope has been supplied with the adjustment of the budget and is now in operation. As far as CT is concerned, the donation from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation has been approved to the "Metaxas" and the donation process is in the last phase, i.e. the selection of the company's supplier by the Foundation, which will also make the installation of the complex. I can't answer the MRI. I will not say 'we'll put him on'. We will see what will happen from the possibility of the next ESDP. As far as the micrototals of pathogens are concerned, it has been included in the budget modification for the current year and its supply will be completed. An effort is made on the basis of and in agreement with the approval of the new linear accelerator which will reduce the waiting time for the initiation of radiotherapy to a very large extent. That's what we've done so far. We'll try to do more. The issue of shortcomings seems to me to have balanced since increased funding and the normalisation of the cash flow to the hospitals. Also, the hospital has been subsidised and it pays back old dues that actually bring it into a balance situation compared to suppliers. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Manolakou has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u180	Minister, you may raise the budget, but it is not enough for the actual needs of the hospital, and this is clean for the largest hospital in the West Attica. As far as vacant posts are concerned, we are talking about gaps that reach 25%, two hundred vacant posts. This means that machinery too, if there are no relevant specialists, cannot function or can not work on a newspaper. Therefore, the need to complete these positions, which we say are not the real needs, should go ahead. This morning I spoke, no one has gone. You said some numbers and so far they're thirteen people. In other words, even 10% of empty seats have not been covered. But you left a gap on the microtopic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u181	I've answered your question. He joined this year's budget and will be corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u182	The pathology lab is missing people who can't even get permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u183	We've been proclaiming three permanent doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u184	Okay. You're going to make an invitation, but a timeframe in particular? The posts you say will be recruited have been declared since 2014 by the New Democracy, over a period of three and a half thousand. However, the total gaps for all public hospitals are thirty - five thousand. Since 2013 they increased by fifteen thousand, because people ran to get their pension. According to data from the Ministry of Interior, seven more thousand people are expected to retire in the next two years. The replacements you're saying are a drop in the ocean, literally. The situation is dramatic and marginal in public health. See all hospitals from Amalada to Kefalonia, through to Crete and all those written in the form of Naxos or the Forens. For any public hospital and to speak the situation is hopeless. Public health is severely ill. You may say that you do not close hospitals, but they merge clinically and reduce beds. Here you did not answer for the endocrine clinic at the hospital "Metaxas". It is one of the best ones in Greece with fifteen beds. It will really be wrong to merge and disappear. It meets specialized needs. Finally, I would like to say that when health is not a social asset, but it is a commodity, then we will have such situations. It'll be considered luxury. You may call on - as you have done to previous people - that they become lovitours or that there is corruption. We don't question it. But when health is considered a commodity, this situation will perpetuate. That's what you go on with. We call it clear. There can't be any health problems waiting. Not only will we put pressure on you in this House, but we are alerting us, calling on the trade unions, health workers and patients to make their own health case, because classic choices to trade in health are overthrown by class struggles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u186	Mrs Manolakou, first of all, I do not think it is a small injection of seventy people, especially after five years of disaster. Identify once that an effort is made and do not reproduce the devastation account yourself. Secondly, doctors are engaged in the ESS with a specific process of individual crisis and comparative crisis with other candidates. This process in previous years could last for one, one and a half, two, two and a half years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u187	Let's see. We're waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u188	We have now legislated on the parallel programme, and at the moment the new governors are controlling it. It is a procedure which must not exceed three and a half months from the time when the documents have been lodged and the supporting documents have been completed. It's a bet we can make it. Let me tell you right now that it's going to be dean and save, I can't. You know we're pushing as much as it does where it doesn't go. To say two things I forgot. There is no request, nor has there been an administrative decision on the relocation of the endocrine clinic. First of all, that's it. In the pathological field, an interconnector named ‘onclinational endocrinology’ has been built, which upgrades classical endocrinology in a specialised sector, precisely because there is the possibility in the context of the oncological function of the ‘Metaxa’ hospital that there are innovative initiatives of onoendocrinology and neuroendocrinenic tumours that make the hospital aroused by the reference centre, since it also has at its disposal the PET-CT. I don't know if you've taken this as a chance to relocate the endocrine clinic. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u189	Our doctors told us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u190	That's not gonna happen. What I'm telling you is true. From there on, the hospital "Metaxas" has no lists and has very little anticipation in the surgery.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u191	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u192	We're talking about surgery. This is inconsistent with 'if, they delay, they do, they show'. For chemotherapy, the anticipations are completely manageable. Where there is one problem, which will be improved, however, has to do with radiotherapists, which in relation to other hospitals is clearly smaller. There's an effort to improve it. There have also been alternative radiation therapists, and we also have permanent intakes. There is a serious effort being made, Mrs Manolakou, lately, which, from now on, will show an ever greater concrete result. We had to fight for a year with a very hostile environment, with commands that sabotaged and especially the previous ones, until they left in December that spent a year. Everything that could pass through their hand - in a large part - delayed, difficult, blocked, done so. New governors came in, which no one can even talk about their value and quality, because as much trouble as they did when we were prosecuting the previous ones, so much nugget have now come to see the curriculum of the next ones. So I think from now on the health picture will be better, and this thing will look like the fall it comes. For the 'Metaxa' hospital - I think I answered you in particular. I didn't leave anything you said. Whether we agree or not, I think I answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u193	We're waiting for the timeline.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Minister. Series is the sixth timely first-cycle question under the number 966/7-6-2016 of the MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health, on the situation in the State General Nice. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Paulakis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u195	Thank you. Mr. President, is my next one too? Should I do it together?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u196	And your next one is yours, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u197	Should we discuss them together if the Minister agrees?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u198	Do you agree, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u199	Of course, I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u200	All right, I'll shorten the suggestion to both of us to do it together. The next one's got to do with the C.E.D. Of course, it's an older question, two months old, but we have news. You'll tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u201	Let me give her a speech first. It is the seventh timely question of a first cycle under the number 935/31-5-2016 of MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health, concerning the shortcomings and problems of the fleet of the EKAB. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President. The first question under the procedure is the question for the State General Nice. Tragic deficiencies are described in the media as well as as as a piraeus MP, I have some regard in relation to the shortcomings in both staff and material that exist, not to a large extent as the publications say. However, there is also a question with intensive care units. I'm not going to go any further. I'll wait for you to tell me your first introduction, and we'll come to dentology to win the time. The questions arising from the situation, as described for the State General Nice, are as follows: How do you plan to resolve the tragic situation and the enormous shortcomings in hospitals throughout the country and especially in the State General Nice? How does it explain the low figure adopted for the State General Nice, while in smaller hospitals it has been approved bigger - this is an important issue - and why, while there should be two thousand intensive treatment beds across the country, there are only six hundred? How will this problem be solved and what is happening with patients in need of introduction to intensive care units? The second question, in relation to the EAW: Minister, not only from publications, but also from research that has been done and you know much better than I have done since the old conventions and what has happened, we will describe the problem that is the outdated fleet and the unqualified personnel. There is a very big issue in the maintenance cost of the patient's obsolete material, which we read is more than EUR 10 million per year. We were told the contest was done. You will tell us why we have - I think - happy news these days for the competition for the supply of new ambulances. We didn't get all the ambulances before, or we didn't get what we could get. Reports say we lost half the money from the ESRB. You will analyse all of this to see what happened and what the situation in the ambulances is. We say this because it is a very sensitive part of the patient's lifestyle in a safe way, in a secure way, with specialized staff, on time, to save the lives that we need. We ask: How many ambulances are in operation in Greece and how many decommissioned? When the fleet will be renewed - it was an old question, did you answer it that it was renewed - what responsibilities of the previous governments since 1907 for the purchase of new ambulances despite the approval of the NRP, as I said? Finally, how are you going to deal with the phenomenon of hypotension and unskilled personnel and how are you planning to deal with the phenomenon of illegal trafficking in patients with private ambulances? I will come to that, because it is very important to check private ambulances in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u204	As regards the State General of Nice, which was the hospital we learned many things, because that is where I specialize and specialize and I have a special connection with this hospital and learning and racing, I will tell you: Well, in 2015, the previous hospital had planned to be sponsored with 18,436,000 euros. Finally, we gave EUR 19 856 000 and after many years, this year, for the '16 budget, precisely recognising the role of this hospital and the fact that his on-call is actually holding defence from the entire West Attica, we increased the budget to EUR 23,231 000 - I mean the grant from the state budget. Time needs to be increased, but unfortunately in the health regions, as things had done in the past, any Member or agent who had edges at the Ministry of Health would raise the budgets of some hospitals. We start this, and we make it, because there are also hospitals in the province, where you see a difference of two and three million in state subsidies, which are not justified by the capacity of each hospital. We are correcting this, however, Mr Colleagues here in relation to Attica there is a disharmony in these hospitals. Except that is not the case from one moment to the next, you must gradually balance and increase the distribution to the State General of Nice. Now, with regard to staff, twenty-two assistants have been declared, nine have been posted and another thirteen have been reopened. Since the 4K and 5K notice of nine hundred and eighty-five, the hospital is being strengthened - and some have already been hired - with eighteen staff. Of the five hundred and eighty-five additional staff, nine persons are assisted, as well as nine, who are in the appointment process. Since the CIF's notice for the IMC, out of the seven people have gone four so far and out of a thousand six hundred sixty places that will be announced in the next few days for the hospital, there are forty people who are a serious "injection" of staff and eight permanent doctors have been declared and seven people will be brought from the notice covering the '98 CCPs. I think that this for many years is a serious 'injection' of staff in the hospital and financial and staff. Also, to say that because it belongs to Athens and Piraeus, it will have a serious part of the eight hundred nurses that are from the proclamation of the thousands of two hundred who signed the day before Mr. Vernardakis and Mr. Now I shall refer to the EAW. Look. The ESAB currently has, without the ninety it receives, seven hundred thirty-two vehicles. The ninety ambulances are being received, and at the moment it remains practical to receive Eastern Macedonia and Thrace another ten ambulances and close to ninety, because the others have been given, twenty-five in Crete, fourteen in western Macedonia, eleven the other day in Epirus, etc., six and two in the north and the southern Aegean. You know that this was a competition that started in 2007, was reopened, did not find them in the parallel benefits, we arrived at a situation where you had a contest that told you "the ninety ambulances will get them with 48,000 euros, the other ninety-six ambulances that are the same, another company but the same ones, you will get them with 68,000 euros". That was the situation. The ninety to 48,000 contest has been awarded. There was a very big run after the second elections in September, in order for the Court of Auditors to complete control over the pre-contractual, to commit the appropriations from the NRP, to make the first payments and advances to deliver these ambulances now. For the other ninety-six, we don't proceed to a competition. We are now opening an invitation to tender for a hundred and six new ambulances that are part of the budgets of the respective regions. There has been a serious work on spending on workshops, because in fact the data we had for 2015 was that, for all the annexes, the cost of the existing fleet for spare parts and fuels was around EUR 5,565.681. It's a big expense. We made an effort to see that fuel could be supplied, like the Police and the C.O.D. from the Army, etc. That hasn't thrived yet. We are also trying to activate in better terms the workshops that the EAW has throughout Greece. For example, Thessaloniki is a workshop that the private sector does not have, but there are specific features missing, so that it can function. They are not missing at random, because in general the EAW does not have a little staff, it has about four thousand two hundred people. In the Thousand Six hundred sixty I said before, we provide for twenty technicians for the EKA and also for hundreds of crew posts - most of them in Athens and the others in other parts of the country - which were not included in the notice, which was the first to be implemented in Genoa that passed on to us and concerned the hundred and eighty-seven people who have undertaken service. It is really a wager for us and our Government, the SYRIZA - ANEL, to implement the provision of the hundreds of seventeen ambulances in visible and fast times, and not with the misery of the previous ones, who were fighting the companies with the various ministers and made constant appeals. The technical specifications phase is over, there have been consultations with the regions elected, because they will go back to the competition. The EKRD does it, but the regions are paying for their own programmes and I think that is where we are going on another day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u205	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much, Minister. It's important the news you've brought us. As far as the State General Nice is concerned, I would insist that a fairer sharing should be made. You're right about this, you know that better than we do, but I, as a member of Piraeus, know the strategic importance of this particular hospital. As you said, he's keeping the Western Attica on-calls. The funds should be proportionate not only to staff but also to their strategic role. So when you have half of Attica, half of Attica is one and a half or two million people. In a newspaper you don't know what will happen to you and you should be credited in proportion to the importance of each hospital in Greece, so that we don't have inequality or risk not having money for the staff or logistics infrastructure to treat the patients. Now for the EKT. We have the question of private patients, which we need to discuss, if there is any control, who controls them, who certifies private ambulances, which cost EUR 50, 100, 150. As they get you, they're charging you. We don't know if the companies are cutting off documents. I don't want to say personally now that I had with my mother, who was at some point very ill. I didn't use it, but the cards came to the public hospital and advertised us that he doesn't have proof. Anyway, when someone needs a bit of it, it may at some point fall into this trick, but we as government, you as Minister and we as Independent Greek have to be very careful and control over what these people are for tax and health reasons. The second part I want to discuss in relation to the EMCDDA is helicopters. There is again a huge issue, because we have three helicopters, which are entangled. One I've learned has almost been destroyed. Their maintenance or repair costs exceed 1 to 2 million. I don't know if the numbers are right, but I have this information. There's been aerial spaces in the Army, which have another business role, plus having a double-cost per flight time, which I don't know if someone's paying for it. Because at some point, we had gone to the engineer and we saw them, they told me they owed me years from the Ministry. Any cost would never have been incurred in either the FAD or the flight time for either the fuel or the money to be paid or the money to be given by someone using the military helicopter. So service is provided in the wrong way by the wrong service, which is the Army. Our three of EKP's are encased. To find a solution to what it takes and to discuss it here. That's why we're coming to self-help. And let's see the cost. Because there are - I don't know the number, but I've heard - a lot of aerospaces. If this is again a point of hatred or remula or I put it down to go privately, in the need now it will also get an ambulance, it can also call a private helicopter with 2,000 euros to go from Rhodes to Agios Nikolaos in a hospital, bring it to Athens. Let's see and solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Paul Paulakis, Deputy Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u208	To say a few words - because there is a great deal of talk - about aerospace, because we have done some things, we have not been in nothing since we took over, although there is a hard core of a system that resists. Look, there are three ambulances, three helicopters left in the EKA, because the other three fell and we don't know where the compensation that this company is supposed to have paid, ‘ALITALIA’. We cannot find the Ministry of Health even though the compensation he must have paid for what he has fallen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u209	Did he pay her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u210	For the first time, for the first, yes, for the rest we don't know. There's no one who knows in this world. It'll soon be discovered. Let me just say a word about the others before I tell you about the helicopters. In the parallel programme, we voted for a single register for ambulances and for private ambulances to be checked by the Service and by a committee that entered. Secondly, there is an ongoing investigation of the ESS, which, after complaints made, shows the suspicion of underground routes between some of the circuits that act in the field of transit and transport, which will slowly come to the surface, because it is also the reason that some are screaming very much in this regard. Now for the airspace. After the three helicopters fell, the Army took the flight project and did well, because since then we haven't had any unfortunate events. This year, in cooperation with the ministers for Maritime, Civil Protection and National Defence, who also had the initiative, we incorporated all the means under common cover in order to come out of a joint operational plan. The fire helicopters in the firehouse, which are under the Ministry of Civil Protection, are now involved in the aerospace stations, with the flying people that have from there. Recently, we, in cooperation with Mr. Toska, sent a helicopter in Halkidiki, which, within two weekends, has saved four - five lives. Because, you know, there in Marmara, the road is narrow and the distance of Halkidiki - Thessaloniki is more than three and a half hours away. People have been saved from what happened Friday weekends and we will probably extend it all week - if we can make it this year, but certainly from next year - with the huge movement that this region has. Watch out now. A competition was opened to repair the three horny helicopters. Watch out what repair this is. It's the installed rollover of the engine. It's about electing, after they completed a few hours, the engine. It's not like he's definitely damaged. The first competition was opened with 6 million euros. Do you understand? Now we've reached 1.2-1,4 million for the six engines. Sadly, "where many doughs speak, they are late to dawn", because they are EKAB, but the Air Force controls them, others go in the middle. We, as Ministry of Health, asked on purpose and sent an official document as Deputy Minister to PRATT & WHITNEY, which has the engines to tell us how much the engine control costs. He's not answering me. The representatives here are not allowed to answer. To see what kind of mob circuits we're in trouble. But we're gonna get out of this either way. In other words, we have considered the four engines to put them into the cross-border programme, INTERREG, and for others to find our own funding. It's just the thing is who does it. Because every moment they take you out, "no, the beam, it's taken chassis, it's like this, it's become the engine" etc. And they don't tell you the truth. But because we can't wait when they'll tell us the truth, they'll get those repair programs out. We are also in agreement now with Mr Kammenos on some Huey-engines that exist, which must go to Crete, Syros and Mytilini, to make stations there, because we do have useless aerospace facilities. We have data from 2012 and 2013 that 45% of the Aerospace Aerospaces or the East Aegean to Athens the next day is discharged. So they shouldn't be transferred there. And yet a rural doctor, who is in Agathonisi, who does not have the experience or the logistics infrastructure, in case he has a grandmother or a child in pain, could be transported somewhere closer. That is why we are talking about a base in Syros or Mykonos, which will make the internal routes of the Cyclades. In addition, there are six exceptional helicopters in the port, which are in agreement with Mr Dritsa to join the power of the conferences. And here, of course, the question of their repair is still coming in, the control of their engines at flight times. These port helicopters are really excellent, they are what the American coastguard has, which can make the aerospace. It just needs to be made - and we are in agreement with Mr Kammenos - a central political decision on who runs the test, who repairs and throws these helicopters. Because the Port doesn't have many pilots, but they can be thrown away fire-fighting pilots or other pilots, who are in the units of the EKA. That's what we're trying to solve now. But we've really opened up a closet with a lot of skeletons. And we thought we'd get it over with fast. There's a lot of defenses out there, because there's a lot of money going on there, but we'll figure it out, be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Minister. The eighth is the eighth under number 1080/4-7-2016 question of the first cycle of the MEP of the Independent Greeks, Vassilis Kokkalis, on the staffing of the EKA in Larissa Law and the creation of EKAB areas in health centres in Larissa. Mr Cockfield has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, following on from my colleague's questions, although I am not a doctor, I will use these phrases. For the past two years, the EKT has been in intensive work. We are called upon to take it out of the intensive, transfer it to a short-term hospital ward as soon as possible. In Larissa, where the headquarters of the 5th Health Region is located, there are two areas: EKAV Larissa and EKAV Elassonas. However, in Farsala and Agia there is no EKAB area. In Farsala recently, because of the damage of the one and only ambulance, fifty two villages in the province of Farsalon had been left without an ambulance for too many months. For the province of Agia, especially in the summer months, there is an urgent need to create an EAW sector. There is no rescuer in this health center. Residents use many times even agricultural, to transport patients to health center or hospitals. Given that there are refugee camps in Larissa and the ambulances in Larissa almost daily carry special young children to the hospital, it is imperative that the exit of the EKA from the intensive one in the last three years is urgent. In view of this - and you have already dealt with my colleague's topical questions - what you intend to do on the one hand to recruit staff, a rescuer and, secondly, whether it is in the Ministry's view to create areas of responsibility for Farsala and Agia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u214	Mr Colleagues, I will be brief because I have said a lot before and to other questions. For Larisa. The NSAB attempts in the prefecture with seven ambulances in the morning, seven in the afternoon, four in the night from Monday to Friday and six ambulances in the morning, six in the afternoon and four in the night this weekend. It is not very small in relation to the population and the geographical distribution of the county. Elassona Health Center serves eleven people and attempts an ambulance on a 24-hour basis. For Agia there are three drivers, several shifts are covered. In Farshalla, there's only one person. That's not where the shifts are covered. We also support health centres with drivers above. The EMCDDA will now open up positions for about 100 people. He has made a call of interest and for travel from Athens - because the sixty people from the one hundred to Athens are for the other - in an effort to make moves to other regions, to cover them. Agias is specifically considered - and there are also a number of three drivers - for the creation of a sector there to cover that area. Indeed, the EMCDDA was active at one or the other level, without meaning that it has a little personal overall of the EMCDDA. There's just a big unequal distribution of this staff. And this is happening inside Larissa, in relation to the city's size and how many ambulances are in the city and how much it could be out there or how much such an area has been built. I think we will slowly be able to find solutions at this level, with the creation of the sector and with the strengthening of staff. In addition, I would like to say that three people will be recruited in Larissa for an ambulance crew under the refugee programme, which will obviously be for the treatment of hospitality centres, but they will clearly offer their services and the public health system more widely, as did the hundreds of fifty people we have taken - and within them were thirty to forty people rescued by the EKA - on the islands of the eastern Aegean during the very great crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Minister. My colleague, Mr Cooke, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u216	Minister, the redistribution of staff will help very much in this direction that you have said. If you can, specify in time when this redistribution of personnel will take place. And especially for the province of Farsalon - as you said - where there are not all shifts and who are only one person, is there anything? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u217	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u218	We are currently in a phase of complete reorganisation of the EMCDDA, because it is not possible for some areas to take out five ambulances at night and some other areas, with a corresponding population, not to have an ambulance for either a sample. This thing can't be done. A solution must be found, but, in agreement with the workers too, because families have been made, lives and others have been made. But on the other hand, you cannot in the name of the client state of the past, maintain a situation in which, while staff in theory covers, on the other hand, they are concentrated in some areas and some of them are not so. There could be a circular rotation. We're trying to put the drivers of health centers into synergy with the rescuers of the EMCDDA. This is a bad idea, in my opinion. Clearly it cannot be done in Athens and Thessaloniki, in the urban centers. But, when you have a health centre next door, near, an EKAB area, why can't these shifts be combined? Do we have the luxury? The guide to the health center will be the driver of the ambulance and crew of the rescuer, who will also be responsible for dealing with the patient, with whatever specialised services he provides. That is all we need to make use of. That's what the administration does. And the Commander and the Deputy Commander of EKAV turn all over Greece, we collect the evidence, we change some situations, we break some established interests, just so we can do this thing. And don't forget the eighty-seven who were appointed and the hundred who are to be proclaimed now, who will strengthen. I don't like talking. I can't give you a certain time horizon. However, they really have orchestrated all Greece and the Commander and the Deputy Commander, just to see the situation in this particular place, to say "we can do this, we can do that, we can do the other." That's what I can say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u219	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers" as in force on 27-7-2016, firstly, a criminal case for the former Minister of Finance, Mr. Ioannis Varoufakis and, secondly, a criminal case for the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Nicholas Friend. He also forwarded on 28-7-2016 a criminal case file relating to the former Minister of National Defence Mr. Ioannis Papantoniou. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to take a few minutes' time off to get the Deputy Minister back to the Chamber, who has been outside for a while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The twelfth will be discussed under number 1098/6-7-2016, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Piraeus Union, Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Health, on the reflection of the subsistence and subsistence of the Zakynthos Hospital. Mrs. Big Economics, you have the floor for two minutes to begin with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this timely question I made it on the basis of reports I saw in the press. I didn't go to Zakynthos, as I went to "Transition", to say things by their name. I just saw that the hospital was denounced by the doctors, that they are serving eighty-seven nurses - out of the two hundred who should be - that there is only 50% of the subsidiary doctors and the hospital operates with the incredible sacrifice of the nurses. I understand that solutions need to be found, because Zakynthos is a place that has a lot of tourism, and especially at this time of the day there can also be accidents, apart from illnesses. I'm also making press reports. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Theodora, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Question: What do you intend to do, to have a full hospital staff, especially during this period?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u223	Ms. Big Economics, your information from the press alone is not correct and I will explain it to you with evidence. First, for the Zakynthos Hospital for 2015, the previous government had foreseen to be financed with EUR 2,013,000. Finally, we gave in 2015, with the exceptional grant, a final amount of EUR 2.293 329. For 2016, it is foreseen that the State budget grant of the hospital will increase to EUR 2,963.311. Now you're not saying that. That's the first. I mean, we've got a million increases in a year. In two million, you add one more and you do three million. From there on, in relation to the staff, from the notices known, 4K and 5K, it takes six people, appointed. Four are nurses, a medical lab TE and a radiology - radiology TE. It takes four more from the ancillary staff. As soon as they return from the IACC, they shall be appointed. Some must have returned. Three doctors from the CDC have been proclaimed, one has gone. There are eight nurses, because they were scheduled for the ITH to end. We'll see exactly what the recruitments will be based on the applications they've made. Because we really went to open it up with this CEDEFOP notice, but there must be availability. They've been proclaimed for seven people. An anaesthesiologist, a curator II for the ICU, a surgeon or anesthesiologist or nephrologist - again for the ICU, for permanent staff, I am speaking - a radiodiagnostic, two psychiatrists and a pediatrician. One of the assistants has been awarded four posts, one on three, and one on the other has been reopened. Also, for the Zakynthos PEN, two were proclaimed, one went. And she's got two CPUs from the CPU's notice. I think what I told you right now is a serious - and personal - financial support for the hospital. I think that this is a bet, so that the nurses, who generally apply, can also be found, because in the four hundred staff seats I know there have been more than two thousand applications, but they were not all in the universal division that we put in. Of course, if they don't, we'll call them back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u224	My colleague Mrs. Big Housekeeper has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u225	Minister, you tried to cover me, but you failed. I do not think the doctors from 16 June, in the middle of summer, in such a tourist season and in particular in Zakynthos, still have mobilisations. I read their publication in this regard: "The hospital is going through one of its worst periods and without any prospect of improvement immediately. Substitution is a real problem and leads with mathematical accuracy to the deterioration of the health services provided. The people of Zakynthos and also the visitors of our island are finding the staffing gulgot every day in order to serve the volume of patients, who, unfortunately, because of the economic crisis has increased quite a bit." First of all, that. Secondly, a few days ago - the Minutes of the Zakynthos Municipal Council were not sent to me because of the heat of the city hall closed before 14.00 p.m. and the minutes were not sent by e-mail - we had this agenda for Zakynthos Hospital. Today I expected. So I don't think they're happy. Also, I don't think these are small-scale games. We want direct answers, because it is about people's health, especially at that time and on an island that has so much tourism. Workers cannot make such mobilisations in the middle of the year and put such a reflection on both residents and tourists. In fact, the departments, as far as I know, because I've been called, operate at 100% and exceed the safety limit the doctors have. The urgent need is particularly heavy because of the tourist season and operates very often. At night one nurse per shift. It's too dangerous, Minister, to be a nurse per shift at night. If anything happens, the nurse can't do anything. For the truth, I have two other publications about Zakynthos Hospital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u227	Look, the announcement and announcements of some are not real mobilisations. First of all, that. Secondly, in the communication I did not hear anything specific, because I spoke with specific figures. If some people want to make announcements in general and vaguely, they're fine and they're good. We respond with specific figures, and I think I specifically answered you both for the money and for the staff. From there on, if some want to return to the age of Adones, Loverd and Vorides, they can want it. What can we do now? We're going someplace else. We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-01-S1-commons.u229	With the consent of the House at 20.50 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, August 2, 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
