ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the topical and urgent questions agenda, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to the House - in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and with Article No.3126/2003 'Prime responsibility of the Ministers', as is the case - on 29-2-2016, a criminal case for the former Deputy Minister of Development and Competitiveness Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis. Also, congressman Konstantinos Skrekas sent a letter requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from the period from 2-3-2016 to 3-3-2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u2	The House approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u3	We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The third question, with number 563/22-2-2016, will be discussed with the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the abolition of double and triple pensions granted to MPs and members of local government. The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mr. Petropoulos. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President, as I thank the State Secretary for Social Security, Professor Tasos Petropoulos, who, in his presence, seven days after the timely question was tabled, shows that the government has the will and the courage to answer even the most difficult questions. Minister, Mr Petropoulou, my question, Mr Katrougalos, is based, in view of the statement and discussion of the new insurance system, on what you and your colleague, Mr Katrugalos, have called 'the new architecture of insurance'. We want uniform rules of equality and equality for all Greeks, from the self-employed and the scientist who cut the first card on his block, to the President of the Ice Bay, to be treated in the same way in terms of the contributions they pay and the benefits they pay. And the question arises in a firm manner, on the basis of the relevant time-consuming question. Is it possible for these single rules to exclude parliamentarians and local authorities? Point two. Uniform rules in pensions, uniform rules for replacement, uniform rules for contributions, uniform rules for public and private sectors, uniform rules for all. The uniform application of the rules on contributions and benefits abolishes any discrimination between older people before 1992 and young people after 1993. We have heard you many times and you and Mr Katrugalo say 'before 1992, after 1992, before 1982, after 1982'. This ends in this single system of equality and equality. Is it reasonable, therefore, to have Members before 2012 and after 2012 to this question? In which axis of law does this distinction rest, although adopted? The third point - and with this I am closing down, to come to my dentistry - is, Minister, most importantly, the power of the experienced example. What we are proposing to adopt and suffer the citizens, who are in the sixth year of a torture process within the path of monumental cannibalism, first we must adopt it and suffer it for ourselves. How, then, do we ask for and legislate on the citizen, for example, to retire to sixty-seven when pre-2012 colleagues, those who are already retired or who are to receive, can retire to forty-five, forty-eight and fifty-one? These are the three axes on which I stand my question and ask the government: Mr. Petersburg, how many double and triple pensions are granted to MPs and local rulers, prefects, mayors and colonists? Secondly, I would like to ask whether the government intends, in terms of regulation in the new insurance sector, to introduce an obligation for the Members and local authorities to choose directly to receive a pension - or their parliamentary status, and only that one, or that which comes from their business space alone - and not both together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u5	The State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. You're right, Your Honor. The government is moving towards a fair social security system for everyone, and it would be a omission if we did not take into account the possibility that some would receive multiple pensions for whatever reason. At the moment - because you are asking yourself - I will say about pensions that are not worth mentioning. Four retired people get four. But it doesn't make any sense to talk about such numbers. It is not worth talking about anymore. It's important to say the big numbers. Three pensions get about thirty - five thousand pensioners. Two pensions get nine hundred and ninety-five thousand pensioners. One pension only gets a million two hundred eighty-eighty thousand pensioners. But I say not to refer to the many pensions for the few, because that is not a good reason, as the maximum amount to be paid by the insured, whatever pensions they have, on the basis of our new plan, which we will introduce into our discussion bill, is the maximum amount -3.088 euros. At the moment, the ceiling is close to EUR 3,680. And the ceiling for one pension will be EUR 2,773. I must say that the percentages of those receiving such pensions are very small and the effects on the problem of our deficit funds are not very large.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u7	Mr Triantafylliides has the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u8	Minister, I understand what you say with the highest plaque. Let me say that my own reasoning and political perception are based on what is called the 'power of the living example' and under no circumstances on the downside of political and gossip, as is developed by other individual wings of this House. And to repeat once again that when we say about the power of the experienced example, we mean that when parliamentarians propose and legislate difficult measures for citizens, they must first propose and apply them to themselves. It is therefore of particular symbolic value that this choice and this distinction should not be included in the nine hundred and ninety-five thousand or in the thirty-five thousand people who have just said that they receive two and three pensions and other uninsured persons are entitled to pensions that have been classified - not from me, from my humility - as 'friendliness' pensions, which cannot cover the minimum standard living. In this sense, I consider it to be symbolic and substantial reasons that the government should commit itself to abolishing double and three-fold pensions of MPs and local leaders. Because I claim that the logic should be stopped, based on the uniform rules mentioned above and your colleague, Mr Katrugalos, said that, while we abolish culling before '92 and before '82, we adopt this cue for Members before '12' and after '12'. And I think this will also help to strengthen, if you like, the devastated political system in terms of credibility, that, in other words, it teaches, in its actions, exactly what must be done with the insurance system, first legislating for itself and then asking the citizens to suffer difficult measures. After all, Minister, I would like to hear the opposite arguments, namely to hear from a former MP or now a Member, elected before 2012, that he should receive - which I have not heard from anyone - two pensions. From anyone who claims this, I sincerely want to hear his arguments, to understand the right, if you want, of this side and this approach. In any case, in view of the new insurance policy, I expect you, Mr Petropoulou, to make a very clear commitment from the Government that it is going to abolish double and triple pensions and for those who are receiving and for those who are going to receive a second pension - beyond the parliamentary system - and from their professional area. I return my proposal, which is not punishable, is a choice. In other words, whoever wants only to choose the MEP and only gets the one or the one who receives from his professional space, if he is a doctor, a lawyer, a journalist, and only this one, not both. I think that symbolism is something we all understand very much about what the citizen hears and receives outside this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to the State Secretary, there is the question from the world and I would like to put it. Okay, pensions for the good of the country or economy - whatever you say - to cut down, but there are people who have given money to the insurance funds, they have paid money and you need to adjust them. What about that money? There are a lot of them and they may be resorting to the European Courts or anywhere. That's what people say. As far as Members are concerned, do what you want, because you realise that I do not want to intervene. However, I would like to say to Mr Triantafylides that today I have been called by Mr Pylarinos - I say by name - who is the chairman of the former Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u10	The retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u11	I don't know if he's taken you, too. I was called because a Member of Parliament, former Minister, has been operating and has asked for his expenses to be paid - because he has not had to operate - from the Members' Fund. And since this did not have any money, he asked for the matter to be brought to Parliament and the Conference of Presidents will be involved. Why am I saying that? Because everyone thinks the MPs are too much. It's not like that. There are also MPs or former Members who fall. I cannot say the Member's name, but I mention the name of Mr Pylarinou, who called me today, to bring the matter to the Conference of Presidents. Things need to be seen with justice and nothing else. So let the Ministry of Labour resolve the matter. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President, for completing your thoughts in the country's collective thinking. We want to form a social security system, where citizens, the insured, will receive a pension, which will not only correspond to the amounts paid but will ensure decent levels of living. This is going to happen. And what we are saying goes on to say that there is no way that the pension we are going to grant will be such that it does not respond to the contributions, of course it will be multitude. And our criterion is to ensure the level of decent living for all. We will have the opportunity, in the debate that we will develop when we introduce our bill into Parliament, to say the details and we are sure that the Greek Parliament will be proud of the social security system that we are doing, which will be a social security system, which will not work for the sake of the bureaucracy that exists in social security, but which will really serve the insured. In the context of Mr Triantafyllidis' question, I see a real interest, which I think the National Representation is expressing, that is to say, fair rules for both Members, and in that sense I take the question raised by Mr Triantafyllidis as interesting and essential. However, I would say that our logic is that pensions paid should not be reduced. The existing pensions currently paid should not be reduced and we are not making an exception here. We have taken into account that the level of pensions today will have a maximum amount. The multiples will be up to 3.088 euros. Now it is EUR 3,680 the planned limit, but there are no such pensions. It's minimal. I said that they are those of the four pensioners who receive ten pensions, seven who receive nine, forty-nine who receive eight, three hundred sixty-four, who receive seven pensions, four thousand six hundred and fifty-nine who receive six pensions, but also for them the amount paid in total, will not exceed the amount we have said, namely EUR 3,088. So there is an adjustment of justice in relation to the rest of our fellow Members, and the other members of parliament will not have such a discrepancy that they will not be tolerated. And the one pension paid will be EUR 2,300. I must say, however, that 0.8% of the pensions paid today exceeds EUR 2 000. For the technical and architectural reasons of the system, we must set ceilings and, where we identify them, I believe that there is no longer any such distinction between those insured who are to be paid, any sense of injustice and imbalance in the right of everyone to receive decent pensions. Obviously - I will agree with you - it is important that at least one does not come out richer than the term of the parliamentary term or office it will exercise in public matters. That's what matters, and that's why there's 'avoided', which I imagine you're all making sure you keep with piety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u13	The fourth question, with number 543/15-2-2016, will be discussed with the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the response from the NRP of the project Heraklion - Mesaras and its late completion. Mr. Aggenakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. And here we are in Parliament again, Minister, on the same subject. - Messara Road. This is a project which is not only a work of breath and development in Heraklion, but also for Crete as a whole. It is a road that would have been completed if you had started your duties properly. It would have been complete if for a year you didn't block the procedure. Your inappropriateness has led to valuable time being lost. It was lost in 2015 and together the European funding of the project was also lost. Let me remind you - and remind you of those who are following us - that in early January 2015, the competitive process for the work St. Varvara - Excerpt of the road axis Heraklion - Mesara, control by the Council of State was completed. Only the compatibility of the project was left. Time spent, without doing anything very important, to solve the problem of objections submitted by the contractors. I was in vain trying, as it seems, with my parliamentary interventions, to turn your attention to the work. Already, I pointed out that on 25 June 2015, I had pointed out that a possible delay in the installation of the contractor in the project would cause significant problems in terms of its funding. I also pointed this out to the House in the debate on my topical and urgent question on 27 July 2015. I continued to knock the alarm on 9 October 2015 and on 9 October 2015, with a new parliamentary question, I stress that valuable time has already been lost and the project is at risk. In fact, my concern seems to have been shared by the relevant Secretary-General for Public Investment and the ESDP, Mr Corkolis, who in his reply in October 2015, to say that to the extent that the project cannot continue to be co-financed by the NSRF, every effort should be made to bring about a direct compromise and start work. Minister, not only have you ignored all these calls but you are showing a attitude either of total ignorance or of total indifference. You even share false promises and criticise me because I exercise parliamentary control and I try and care about matters relating to my constituency and my special place of origin. As early as July, during the debate on the road issue - and more specifically it was 27 July - you assured us from here, from the same point as you are sitting today, that we will be dealing with and that a solution will be given immediately. You also shared fruitfruits hopes to their citizens during your visit to Heraklion in December 2015, where you said that the problem will be solved in the next week and that there is no problem with the work Heraklion - Messaras and free of charge, which Augias is always asking questions, because it is all you found in your Ministry, to discredit you unfortunately the Commissioner responsible for Regional Development, Mrs Kretsos, who left no room, saying that for the projects that have not been completed and need funding after the end of 2015, national resources need to be found. And, of course, until today we are talking about, no move has been made about the project or if it has been done, it is good to let us know. Minister, I ask these three questions: what actions will you take for the work of Heraklion - Messara and from where will this work be paid? Is there a relative line in the lazy and with few projects, IPP money? And one last thing and important thing that you have avoided answering: Do you know if there is a risk that we will be called back as a country the entire amount of Community funds available for the Messara road?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, as usual in the topical questions, parliamentary scrutiny is taking place, but it is the most recent time, which I answer for this work - I have answered to other Members from Crete - but, according to the dear method of the Members of the New Democracy, acts, actions and events of responsibility of the previous governments are removed, in order to create the false impression, as is the case with all the rest of the rest, that for a year the government has not made any progress and has not taken the necessary steps for this project. In other words, they are trying to cover the terrible responsibilities they have for these projects by the previous governments once again. We - and I, too, do not come from Crete - love the place and its people, so we will do what the previous governments have not done for so long. So, let me remind you of what has happened all these years, so that there are no shadows or actions that have not been brought to Parliament and see who has responsibility and who does not have and what has not happened in the year when we are government. As you know, there have been two contractors for this specific file. In the first contract, the contract was signed on 14-2-2007, it was Mr. Souflias and the budget was EUR 58,000. There is still no final receipt of this project. The second contract was a budget of 54,500,000 euros. The contract was signed on 16-1-2008 again under Mr Soufflia's office and this has become the final receipt of the project. Since these works were so well-designed, the two contractors did not arrive and a third cleaner competition came out to build the remaining works of the two contracts, which did not have time to do. I'm telling you this so we can all figure out what was going on. That's what we brought in the House. It was done, there was a competition. We presented it to the committee responsible, and it was lacking in signing the contract, but we had complications and delays in relations with objections, which had been made for the competitive process, which had been preceded by the previous government. But let me introduce a little what's left of it. We have also presented it in the House. It's the third contractor - broom. I'll testify to the Minutes. They're small technical projects. They are large bridges, they are the tunnel of Agia Barbara, orbits, restorations of landslides, unequal nodes and a series of projects, which should have been completed within the two contractors, but they did not last. Also, here is a scorch, which shows, Mr Aygeakis, that it is not a part of the work that has not been done, it is a number of different sections, which were left by the two contractors. That's how good public works were in our country! What you are hiding now and where we discovered it with an interview - because it has never been notified to the Ministry - given by the relevant head of the OECD - because these projects were already transferred to the Agency for the Development of Crete - is a 2013 report from the Directorate for Planning and Control. What does it say about this project, Mr President? It says: "Saving 2: Failure to comply with the criteria for the maturity of the studies when the act is incorporated and a substantial finding". So the EESC admits on page 9, page 10, page 11 that these projects had been done without mature studies. There's a question of the maturity of the projects. That's why the projects are in the state they are. And the two contractors have not arrived, but we also want a third ‘gut’. We have also found an authorisation for the disposal of EUR 47 000 000. This has been done by Mr Chrysochide. And here we wonder how we would find this money from the previous government, because they hadn't been written anywhere, Mr. Ausgeakis, who said you had planned the project. In the end, we have to see that the work had thirty months to go. If, in other words, a Minister of Huntini with magic wand signed a contract and illegally overrun all bureaucratic processes at the beginning of 2015, the project would not be completed in March 2017 and would therefore not be financed by the NSRF in this programming period. What did we do a year? I will briefly mention the steps, so that Mr. Aegakis knows them: A complaint was made on 31 March 2014. Following the complaint concerning the valid fiscal information of the Contractor, the General Secretariat of Revenues on 6 April 2015 recommended to the Ministry and the General Secretariat of Information Systems to apply, because the fiscal information of the Contractor is not valid. The electronic system of the General Secretariat of Information Systems has shown that tax information is not valid, and on 8 July the Department initiated disciplinary proceedings against the company and issued a plan to withdraw the information of the licence. On 20 November the draft was referred to the Legal Affairs Council of the State. The Law Council of the State issued an opinion and forwarded it to my office on December 14, 2015. The acceptance took place on 5 January 2016. Therefore, we have not been delayed one day. In addition to these, there have been insurance measures, Mr Augias, by the contractor - all I say to you, I will submit one - one - that has been dealt with, from what my colleagues are informing me here, with the suspension decision to be on 16 February 2016, a few days ago. I will submit to you all the relevant documents showing and documenting what we say about the court, about the acceptance of the opinion of the Legal Council of State, the acceptance of the opinion on 5 January. I'm also going to tell you the service's answer, which says there's no problem, to blow up this work in the air, because we're all right, if you see the tables in the EDP. We've put the money needed for the next few years to finance it. We have a reply from the relevant Ministry of Economy which answers all the three questions you have asked: First, it answers why it could not be a bridge project, as you can see from the answer that I gave you. Secondly, he answers that the project must be ready by March 2019, so that there is no problem returning money back. And it will be ready by March 2019 with real timetables and real budgets. I would also like to recommend, Mr Augias - because I have just been able to find them - to give you the report from the Planning and Control Department from 20-12-2013, to really understand who is responsible for this project and who have done everything to make this work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u18	This picture is at least embarrassing for Parliament, Mr Spirtzi, when you cannot even read the titles of documents which you have just taken in your hands. So interesting you have shown for this project. So much you have dealt with such an important project.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u19	Today they sent it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u20	Lie. In fact, lie for a pluralist time trying to cover your inability. You have once again discovered persecutors and critics of your work and you have not answered anything at all about what I asked you. And one last thing. It is immoral, Mr Spirtzi, to refer to Mr Chrysochoidis. I am not defending him, but you, as a former pasocchio, were a partner of him, and today you are discovering papers and incompetence and ineffectiveness in Mr Chryssohoid's work. Shame on you! You don't tell us where the money will be found to carry out the work of the Heraklion - Messara road, but you only tell us that you have secured it in the years to come... What years? What project? What code? Answer directly and not generally and vaguely. Custom grass no one eats in Crete, and of course you may constantly invoke your love for this place, but this place understands and has felt it by many of your colleagues now, even those who are elected to Crete that the deception has arrived on the medal, has arrived in red. That's it. That's it! We have a well-dressed, Mr President, Public Investment Programme. The needs of the country are such that it is criminal to lose money from European funds and load up to the national resources we do not have, at the time when national resources are few, very few, and the needs of the country enormous. Mr. Spirtzi, if you don't know, you need to find out after so many months in the Minister's chair. It is disastrous to charge the EDP with projects that could have been completed with European money. You have predicted, in the 2016 budget, expenditure on the Heraklion - Messara road. What's the code? Say straight, then. And if so, when? Timetable and dates, not arithmetics. Because I mentioned earlier dates, statements by you, replies by you, and not vaguely, rather than vaguely, as if we were again to blame for the evil work, for the difficulties of the country. I told you your statements. You told Crete in December that it would be settled in a week. It's been weeks. Who's gonna believe you now? Nobody. You have to lie systematically. You are an incompetent and unfortunately ineffective Minister. And the question is: Is there a risk that we will be asked to return money to the European Union, because the Heraklio - Messara road has not been completed? Do you know, Minister, or at least, please, at last know something - that the non-completion of the road will oblige us to call us as a country to return all the amount of Community funds that will have been allocated to the Heraklion - Messara road? I do not sincerely want to be a veteran of unpleasant news, because the way of Heraklion - Messaras for us Messarites is a work of breathing for the development of the local economy, for the easy and safe movement of the population, for the better movement of agricultural products, for the development of tourism. Like all the issues that concern the Greek people, you let matters develop on their own. You leave them on the autopilot one more time, Mr. Spirtzi. You've left the country on the autopilot. Unfortunately, the truth is bitter. I get it. After a whole year in the chair of the relevant Minister, you have decided to deal with - and indeed you are having trouble reading the titles - with the work Heraklion - Messara. Otherwise you love Crete. But that's not the way love is. Love seems different from the result. They're all intent. I have told you in private, and I say so in public. All the ministers begin with the best intentions, but the result shows that you and your government are extremely dangerous. I'm closing up by saying that you were telling us the dangers. You were telling us the dangers in this Chamber in May 2015, you personally, when we discussed the future of major projects in a timely question, which I had tabled as a sectoral infrastructure manager at the time. Unfortunately, Minister, so far our fears have been confirmed. Do something. Here we are, to develop these projects. And if anything positive for Crete is done, you can be sure that all Cretans - regardless of what political wing the MPs belong - will support it. But do not have the impression that, because you sow love, but on the other hand you have incompetence in the result level, you have automatically thrown "golden dust" in the eyes of the Cretans. That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I understand that it hurts Mr. Aygeakis the way home to make SYRIZA. But SYRIZA will. What can we do? And I'm returning her because she really wants you to have two contractors on this road - it's not even Athens-Thessaloniki street - and you can't complete a project. He really wants incapacity. But it's not the issue of incompetence, Mr. Augarian. I've told you many times. You don't want to understand it. Fortunately, it has been found by an interview from the relevant committee and this report from the EPP, which says that things are what New Democracy has done over the past few years, how we have found the works of Mr Souflia - and not just - better today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u23	I told you that on Chrysochoid...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u24	No, Mr. Chrysochoidis said another. You don't want to understand it. I'll go to Mr. Chrysochoid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u25	The Samara Government did the work...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u26	I'll go to Mr. Chrysochoid. Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u27	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u28	Since 2013, there has been a report from the EESC that appears to be “stop going to hell”. It was your report. You ruled then. Let's go back to Mr. Chrysochoid. I have never been a partner of either Mr Chrysochide or any minister, even though I have been given too many opportunities at ministerial offices.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u29	Are you kidding me now? You weren't the president of the TEI? But I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u30	The President TEE is elected, Mr. Augenakis. You should know. He's no adviser to any minister. I want you to understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u31	You weren't an advisor? You were a government advisor. That's what you were.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u32	You're welcome, Mr. Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u33	I have never been a adviser to any Minister, although I have been given too many opportunities and to be on an organization - I have never been to anyone - and to serve in a minister's office. The path of a man is not hidden and neither can he defend nor muddle nor say 'you were a consultant' and I did not say anything about Mr Chrysochide. Mr Chrysochoidis was anxious to cover what he also found, namely a project that was air-tracked, which could not be completed within the NSRP, signed what he said, that he wanted 47 million euros to end the road in the third contractor, which had not finished. We forecast for 2016, 21,500,000. The numerical one, why do you ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u34	I have a right to be informed. I have a right to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u35	Of course, you're doing well and I'm telling you what we've done, because you're questioning it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u36	I'm not questioning it. I'm in the middle of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u37	It's 2010SE071810. Today he has a remainder of 21,500,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u38	The account... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u39	It's today. The project will be completed by the Public Investment Programme, because we have promised the Cretans and the people of Crete, as government and as SYRIZA. I know that displeased New Democracy and not just. We know that there is a problem with how we proceed with infrastructure projects and the effectiveness we have shown. We know we found all the highways stuck, and they got out. We know that we reviewed Morea with hundreds of millions less than your own governments had arranged. We know that we dismantled the subway when you said that it would never get off the ground and proceed. You should be aware, Mr Aygeakis, that both the specific project and the BOAK and other infrastructure projects in Crete will be carried out by this government and will not be the way you have done. They'll be normal. We won't have any delays. So you were talking about the airport in Kastelli and the competition's over soon. We're gonna have dealers. It will be done, after the necessary serious studies, expropriations, archaeological work and not work in the air and the Greek people pay them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too. The third, with number 570/22-2-2016, is a top-stage question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on redundancies in the Hellenic Defence Systems (ESA), will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr Katrugalos abroad. Mr. Katrugalos is in Brussels. Also, the fifth under number 545/15-2-2016 topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKA, will not be discussed. The second under number 572/22-2-2016 topical question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of National Defence, on the abundance of refugees and non-legislative immigrants in Kastelorizo, will not be discussed, because the Minister informed the service that he has already responded. Unfortunately, as you know, a week ago, for one night, over eight hundred immigrants were in Kastelorizo and of course you realise that the inhabitants - who are fifty to two hundred - cannot feel safe when faced with such conditions. The Minister assured that NATO ships will be in the Dodecanese. One would expect protection from NATO or - if you will - from our warships. I think people are asking for clarification on this matter. The question will be asked again, given that three hours ago CNN responded to the Athenian Agency, the Greek french "SALAMIS" patrols between Ikaria and Kos and the Turkish french "BARBARBAROS" patrols west of Rhodes. These are NATO forces, of course. This means that it is understandable that the Ministry should force these units to be between the coasts of Turkey and our territorial waters. Otherwise, when they are where they are, what protection can they offer? The issue is even more alarming when, on NATO's uploaded website, the NATO Secretary-General officially confirms: "NATO will not stop the boats. NATO will not Turn back the boats with the Migrants." In other words, NATO will only provide information, as it says below, to the services of Greece and Turkey and FRONTEX and it does not intend to deal with the matter in substance. I would like to mention this in the Minutes, and the question will be retabled, in the hope that it will be answered for the benefit of the Greek interests. Because no one asks the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or National Defence for any other reason, except to defend Greek interests. Because NATO recognises that at the moment history is not over, that is, the business plan has not yet been fully developed, it is important to protect our populations and islands from this story. [[At this point, F Vice-President Dimitrios Kremastinos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] Also, the first time under number 577/23-2-2016, the first question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gerasimios Balaoura to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the delay in tabling a bill on regulating the residence permit and work of illegally staying migrant workers of the land, will not be discussed due to a workload of Mr. Musala. That's understandable. The second, with number 566/22-2-2016, is a top-stage question of the New Democracy MP Evros, Anastasios Prussias, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, about the emergence of the "Samothraki Victory" as a pan-European symbol, because Mr Baltas is currently having a scheduled event in the Congregation of Music. Also understood. Furthermore, the first question under number 567/22-2-2016 of the new Republic MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the imposition of municipal fees by the Municipality of Patras on professional establishments in the area by decision of the municipal council, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. Also, the sixth question, number 466/1-2-2016, on the second question of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Kassiri to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the "millions shared by the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL to the bankrupt parties", will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister. As far as the workload is concerned, it is important to know something more. We are now moving on to the first with number 2379/15-1-2016 question by MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Vassilis Katrivanos to the Minister of Health on the subsecution of KETHE. The question will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos. Here, Mrs. Catrivanu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the vulnerable social groups are one of the first victims of the ongoing prolonged crisis and, of course, the supporters, especially now that we would like more than ever a reinforced social protection network. We know that dependency is intensified. We have worsened user psychosomatic condition, constellation, spread of infectious diseases, use of new substances, reduction of stimulus for treatment and greater difficulties in post-treatment reincorporation. And, as we know, the CECH is the largest network of rehabilitation and social reintegration in our country and has a major problem of subscribing. From the start of the crisis, in 2009 until now, by the end of 2015, it has lost a hundred ten people in total, without being replaced due to the budgetary adjustment. Today KETHE has four hundred and fifty - three employees that meet the needs of a global network, which has a hundred units in twenty - six cities and nineteen penitentiary shops. There is a great deal of work going on in the field of treatment, counselling, rehabilitation, prevention. Let us say, the treatment provides services to thirteen thousand people and prevention to five thousand people. Subscribing concerns the region, but also the sensitive area of the prisons. For example, the recently inaugurated unit - in October - and by the Prime Minister in Diavata, "Prometheus", is understood. In 2015, however, the operation of the seven multivalent diagnostic centres of the CECE for persons with a dual diagnosis, namely also dependency and psychiatric disorder, was interrupted due to the termination of the ESDP contracts, staff contracts. The interruption was also a blow to the body, but also to users who are difficult to get into other treatment structures due to the specific situation, the dual diagnosis. The Ministry responded - we recognise it - and allowed forty-two members of the medical staff to be re-entered for the centres, but only for eight months. Thus, in the second half of 2016, multi-powered psychodiagnostic centers will be forced again to shut down, because the contracts will have expired. We ask, then, when will the CDE be able to carry out the thirty-five recruitments of medical staff for indefinite duration, which have been announced and how will the forty-two therapists who manage multi-diagnostic centres after the end of the eight-month contract be granted the permanent staff of the CDE, in order to avoid further interruption of their operation and new suffering and a new cycle, especially since they have these vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. Here, Mr. Xanthi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u43	My dear colleague, I think your question is a crucial question, it has also been discussed with a representative of another parliamentary group in this House. It expresses a genuine anguish and local communities and their families for a structure which was indeed of a pioneering nature. These seven psychodiagnostic centers were an innovation that was missing, especially in the province, to deal with people who had a co-ordination of addictive and psychiatry. It was very important that they make a contribution. For two years the needs of more than a thousand four hundred people and members of their families have been met. There was an external evaluation, which was very positive. The evaluation of this work was particularly positive and for this reason, the CTEH has proposed on the basis of the criteria and the data of the evaluation in three regions, namely Athens, Thessaloniki and Crete, to continue the operation of these structures in the current form, the classic, multivalent psychodiagnostic centre, all four regions, Epirus, Thessaly, Peloponnese and the North Aegean, to develop into multi-powered centres of advice and support, trying, in addition to dealing with people with double diagnosis, to cover the entire range of dependencies and alcoholism and emerging dependencies, such as gambling and the internet, to have short-term hospitality, especially in young people and adolescents, and to have a more systematic effort to interconnect with other services to address either the needs of rehab or the needs of mental health. There is therefore the possibility, because it is precisely the development of these centres, of seeking funding from European funds too. We will proceed to a call for thirty-five permanent staff, which will be announced next month, once the first package of recruitment of permanent staff has been completed in the health system. Another two thousand four hundred forty employees. Eighty of them are dependent treatment structures and thirty-five of them concern the JET. They're private law contracts of indefinite duration. For the first time after 2006, a notice of such positions shall be issued. We therefore believe that, by strengthening the ERCF from these recruitments and by allowing European funds to be allocated to these retrained centres, the overall sustainability of all seven psychodiagnostic centres across the country can be ensured, beyond 15 September, that the eight-month contracts are concluded. I think the CEDEFOP is doing an excellent job in this field, too. Its contribution as a critical public body offering much to the part of treatment, rehabilitation and social reintegration and prevention is, I think, undeniable. The will of the political leadership is to support these programmes, precisely because we also know that in the crisis demands are increasing, the impact of dependence and needs are increasing. A modern state must also raise social care at this level.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u44	Mrs Catrivanu, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u45	Thank you. First of all, we are pleased that in the next month we will have a contract notice for the thirty-five employees at the CHETHE with contracts of indefinite duration, for all the support you have shown - we know that things are difficult - and that you presented to us the program, planning for Athens, Thessaloniki, Crete, as well as Epirus, Thessaly and the Peloponnese. You said that the other resource would be the ESDP, that is to say it would be European funds. However, experience shows that state and stable funding is needed, because the needs are stable and lasting and cannot be restored by the NSRP, which end up again, leaving uncovered operators and users and creating an insecurity. We would therefore like to insist that, in addition to the NRP, stable state funding is needed to meet these standing needs and that this turmoil does not exist twice a year, such as with the JRC and the psychodiagnostic centres. We also want to ask you, at a more general level, how the national action plan on drugs is to be activated, which was the result of consultation between various bodies and organisations and, of course, the Ministry of Culture, in order to proceed with the decisions taken there following projects and studies. In this direction, of course, you will have us on your side, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u46	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to inform the House that the Minutes of Friday 18 December 2015, Tuesday 22 December 2015, Thursday 7 January 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u47	The minutes of Friday 18 December 2015, Tuesday 22 December 2015 and Thursday 7 January 2016 were therefore validated. The seventh under number 426/19-1-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the immediate reopening of the recycling plant in Heraklion Crete and the re-uptake of workers by WASTE SOLUTIONS, will not be discussed due to an impediment by Mr. The second question by no. 1829/10-12-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the lifting of restrictions on the issue of tourist visas from Russia, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member. Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u48	The need to have stable funding from the state budget for all of this range of actions and the supply that those who have a problem with dependency are undeniable. This year, what we have achieved is within the 2016 budget to ensure that these positions are financed. It is a signal given by the government that after years of inactivity, gradual depreciation and degradation of these services on the part of the state - because of course the workers, the healers continued, giving their best self, to offer reliable services - this period of shrinking, cutting resources, etc. It stops and we enter another phase, during which we place particular emphasis and priority on both the part of dependants and the part of mental health and, of course, on the overall effort to strengthen public care. Because this will be a long-standing case, our intention - and this is what the government has said - is that, in the medium-term budgetary adjustment programme, there will be a gradual increase in the social budget by 2019, in an effort to converging with the average European conditions in terms of social expenditure - which we are in a very large discrepancy - and in this way we are creating a financial space in order to support such interventions and such social programmes. The question of dependencies and synergy between the various structures and bodies is an open issue. In our view, we need an operational interconnection now. Each programme and each body has a history, a contribution, a specialisation, a special scientific identity and experience. We believe that today the crucial political demand is that everyone who is dependent on having the right to individualised care, depending on the particular problems he has and the possibility of responding to these programmes. So our attempt is indeed to have a national plan. We need to update the processing that has been done, that is to say we need to go to a more coherent project, which will not just be a stitching-up of the individual projects of each body. That's our will. We have set up a committee at the Ministry of Health headed by the Secretary-General, in which we are in practice trying to plan together the co-existence and co-existence of all the structures and institutions and bodies of the Ministry of Health and the OKANA and the '18 UNO' and the prevention centres and structures of PNA and PNTH. I think it is a demand today for society to make the best use of and try to synergy with all these actions, precisely in order to have the best possible therapeutic effect for citizens. I believe that, when we are ready to have an updated action plan on dependency, we will also have the pleasure of discussing it in the Committee on Social Affairs, so that Members will also be informed, because it is an important issue that the crisis has raised and created needs to be met.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much. The topical and urgent debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance was then concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-29-S1-commons.u50	With the consent of the House at 19.05 p.m. the sitting on Thursday, March 3, 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
