ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 22-3-2016, the minutes of its meeting of Tuesday 22 March 2016 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the Council of Ministers, on Tuesday 22 March 2016, with regard to the adoption of all draft laws: 1) ‘RACVIAC - Security Cooperation Centre’ and 2) ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation: (a) the provisions of Directive 2013/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 and (b) Article 1 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 28 March 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. H under number 693-22-2016, a topical question of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Chryssolou Katsavria - Siropoulou, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the proper management, pricing and exploitation of water resources of the Plast and Somov lakes. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 684/21-32016 by MP Evia of New Democracy Mr Simeon Kedicoglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the change of the tax framework towards higher taxation in the Greek shipping sector. 3. The question by No 689/21-32016 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michael Jeleighis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the recovery of agricultural aid. 4. The Question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs concerning the problem of the operation of the Epirus TEI from the lack of teaching staff and equipment. 5. The question by No 688/21-32016 of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the maintenance of the twenty-seven workers of the Social Structures of Chalkida. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. H under number 685/21-3-2016 a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister for Health, on the need for health control of migrants and refugees entering our country. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 686/21-32016 by F Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the Emergency Department of the Rhodes Hospital. 3. The Question by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the reintroduction and restoration of the wage bill, based on European Regulations. 4. The Question No 639/10-3-2016 by the Deputy of Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michael Jeleighis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the Greek Sugar Industry. 5. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the reconstructing of the Labour Housing and Housing Organisations. 6. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios PKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKNKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakak 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 640/10-3-2016 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of National Defence, on the Greek Defence Systems (ESA). 8. The Question No 624/7-2016 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafili to the Minister of Finance regarding the privatisation plans of the company "LARCO" and the safeguarding of the jobs of its employees. 9. The question by No. 548/16-2-2016 was raised by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Georgios Germenis to the Minister of Finance, on the "sales of the Star Bulk from the TEAD". 10. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the progress of the projects for the development of the former airport of Greece. 11. The question by No 429/19-1-2016 of the Athens MP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the resolution of the "SAPIS" Group's problem and the determination of the time schedule for the payment of the compensation to the beneficiaries. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. H under No 3163/15-2-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKEKKKEKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOGOKOKOKOGOGOGOGOKOKOKOGOKOGOKOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOK 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 745/38/2-11-2015 - an application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy Mr. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the stay of Mr. Kim Glen, as advisor to the Government. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the reduction of charges on the use of plastic money and transactions via e-banking. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that on Tuesday, March 29, 2016, at 19.00, a debate will be held on the agenda for the debate, at the initiative of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, at the level of party leaders, on developments in the field of justice, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. We also have requests from Members for their permission to be granted abroad. MP II Thessaloniki of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis is applied for a absence abroad from 24 March to 29 March 2016, for personal reasons. Parliamentarian and Quaestor Mr Nasos Athanasios is requested for family reasons to be absent from Greece, located in Naples, Italy, from 25 March to 27 March 2016. MP of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos on account of an official visit to the Democratic Association in the Republic of Cyprus in which he participates, seeks permission from his absence from 23 March to 25 March 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u2	The House approved the requested permits.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 679/21-3-2016 of the First Circuit of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panayotas Vranjas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the allocation of rights to support the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) for the period 2015-2019. The timely question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Apostleou. Mrs Panagiota Brandza has the floor for two minutes to develop her timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by expressing my grief and my anxiety about what happened in Belgium, the capital of Europe, that is, our home. Minister, among the problems that we inherited from the previous government of New Democracy and PASOK, the Common Agricultural Policy of 2015-2019 was implemented. The national proposal tabled by Mr Karasmanis, the then Minister for Rural Development, and approved by the European Union in the summer of 2014, was tragic. Unfortunately, we had to get to the implementation, to see the size of the damage that this project will eventually bring to the primary sector. With regard to the basic aid, the previous government has chosen the complex and unfair way of implementing partial convergence, based on the existing rights of the previous periods. The selection of fifteen associated aids was still a micropolitical and customer tactic. Finally, the unambiguous way in which the national reserve is distributed re-establishes opaque practices to serve the ‘masters’. All this creates unfair competition between farmers, mainly affecting the healthiest and most productive parts. They lead, with mathematical accuracy, to a dramatic decline in production at the end of the period, just as happened in the previous years of the same practice. The question therefore is whether there is and to what extent the possibility of lifting this gross injustice by changing the allocation method to the mid-term review of 2017 and whether you intend to table a corrective proposal. Does the Ministry intend to make the necessary improvements to the overall management system so that at least the national reserve is distributed more fairly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Vanja. The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostolos, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u6	Dear colleague, your question is very important, so we in the Ministry of Rural Development have already set up a working group, a CFP monitoring team, because we want to monitor its development on the first day of application, to present us with its views on small or larger issues that arise. Above all, however, we want to see the national choices that have been made, how they will be corrected, because it is indeed a common agricultural policy that causes us problems and we must definitely resolve these in the mid-term review of 2017. That is why the Greek farmers must understand that any problems encountered in the allocation of rights and payments in the first application are mainly due to the architecture of its implementation, which, like you said, is a reality, was predetermined and agreed by the previous governments. Nevertheless, we managed in December and gave the first instalment of the basic payment, when even today there are countries which have not completed their payments. Most importantly, however, we have complied with the Rules of Procedure, we have complied with the legal procedures, in order to avoid new fines and charges, which have actually evolved into a curse in the rural area. The 15% reduction in the common agricultural policy, which has been agreed by the previous governments, is pale in the face of the losses which have caused us by the earlier uses by imposing fines and charges, which, of course, is what it is doing? The Greek farmer, the Greek citizen, pays them himself. Let me remind you once again that we have received financial corrections and allocations of more than EUR 3 billion. All this results from the mismanagement of aid and also from payments made in the rural area, without the corresponding approval of the European Commission. In 2015, however, this is the first year we have no fine when - let us not forget - we had 320 to 350 million per year for the great problem of pasture management. This year we made it. That is why what we are aiming at is through the review that will come in 2017, to make the CAP fairer and above all to solve many problems that you refer to in your question. In my dentistry, I will focus particularly on individual issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Brandza has the floor for three minutes for her denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. I am very pleased, Mr Minister, to hear you - and this is not the first time - that you support and seek rationalisation in this big issue. The European Regulation is quite clear, detailed and also quite flexible, leaving a lot of room to the Member States in both planning and implementation and necessary corrections. I personally do not share what is very widespread in our country, its doctrine is nothing and nothing changes, as is also common in our country - and I do not share it - that technocrats and service actors are creating, rather than applying as required, policies. Like all things in the European Union, the common agricultural policy is a question of tough but, above all, of serious negotiation. We are here, as you said, to formulate and implement agricultural policy with effort, with negotiation and with conflicts. You know that about 80% of subsidies are collected from 20% of farmers. This in itself shows the extent of distortion. In the partial convergence chosen, there was partial care for the new entrants since 2013 and then completely out of distribution, those who started their activities before 2013 and had no rights. The fact that old holders of historical and other rights have decided to lose as a maximum of 30% of the value of their rights, regardless of their number and unit value in five years' time, leaves no room for non-existent people. In simple terms, this means that today we are talking about, there are farmers with the same cultivation in the same region, one who receives basic aid of EUR 1,400 per acre and the other EUR 30. We have reached the point of getting rights from the national reserve pensioners, even older new entrants. It is clear that these aids do not result either in actual producers or in production and that this will again have an impact on the national economy. Minister, we all know that the primary sector is one of the main pillars of development and without it we will find it difficult to achieve it. The rational and fair distribution of agricultural subsidies is an essential element as ever of productive reconstruction. The model that has been applied over the last decades has led to a sharp decline in productivity and agricultural income. The unscrupulous distribution of agricultural aid was the only thing that managed to keep chips. It is our left-wing government's duty to change things and change them! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Vanja. Mr Evangelos Apostolos, Minister for Rural Development and Food, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u10	The description you have made, Mrs Vanja, for these cases is indeed accurate and is in fact correct. The value of the rights has, as I have said before, been achieved in line with the choices made by the previous governments. Today there are some estimates which tell us that there is no possibility of reviewing these options. They say that in 2017, in accordance with Article 53, we can revise decisions relating to related payments rather than the allocation of basic payment entitlements. Why? Because the decision of the mode of convergence was taken with serious disadvantages, and in particular as a criterion it was attached to historical rights. It is an issue that we must definitely see because they do not give the farmers' profession access to young people, especially those who want to remain in the province. For our part, we say this in every direction that the failure of the national dossier in how to deal with historical rights will be creatively addressed in the prospect of production and in the fair distribution of aid. That is why, as I said before, we set up the task force to prepare for the revision. In accordance with the rules laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council, the national reserve is to be allocated to young farmers who are just starting their agricultural activity. So there, in these two categories I have told you in stock and in the allocation of the basic payment, there will be substantial intervention on our part, for which I will give a characteristic example: when the value of the rights already held by a young farmer or a new entrant is lower than the regional average, then the annual unit values of these rights will be increased to the national reserve limit as the average of the region at least, so that we can really support these young people. This increase was not applied when the provisional rights were issued, but will now be applied to the issue of definitive rights. In any case, the management of the national reserve will have certain rules of transparency, through the Monitoring and Evaluation Group, will be fully informed of where the national reserve is going, how it is managed, because for us the principles of transparency and transparency in accordance with the Rules of Procedure will prevail because they are the ones that create a framework for non-payment of fines, charges and at the same time fairer distribution and transparency in the management of Community aid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u11	Thank you to the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Apostleu. The third, with number 683/21-3-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Eitolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the risk of the national network of Amphichia - Lefkada - Preveza - Igoumenitsa, is not being discussed due to lack of competence. The first, with number 674-17-2016, topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament, Eitolokarnania, of the New Democracy, Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the increase in the number of importers in the pan-Hellenic exams for the academic year 2016-2017, from earthquake areas of the Prefecture of Itolokarnania, is not discussed due to the absence of the Minister abroad. The fifth under No. 643/10-32016 topical question for the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs concerning the "expiration of the Orthodox Hierarchs from the Greek schools", was not discussed because of the absence of Mr. Friends abroad. Similarly, the sixth question by number 648/11-3-2016 of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the educational needs of the Municipality of Phaistos Heraklion of Crete, is not discussed due to the absence of Mr. Friends abroad. The eighth Question No 567/22-2-2016, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the introduction of municipal fees by the Municipality of Patras in professional establishments in the area by decision of the Municipal Council, is not discussed due to the obstruction of Mr. Kourublis. The ninth under number 466/1-2-2016 topical question by Attica MEP - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Cassiri to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the "millions shared by the SYRIZA Government - ANLE to the bankrupt parties", is not discussed due to the obstruction of Mr. Kourublis. The tenth under number 615/3-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the possible establishment of offices of Turkish Organization in Greece, is not discussed due to the impediment of the political leadership of the Ministry. The fifth will now be discussed under number 682/21-3-2016 top-level question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on the exclusion of contract workers in all areas of OTA cleanliness from tax obligations to professionals. In this timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Mr Katsotis has the floor to develop his question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is known that under Law 4235/2015 and Article 49, the continuation of employment was treated with an exceptional extension of workers' contracts in the cleanliness sectors of Ottawa and general public. That extension shall have a duration of up to 3-12-2016. With Circulars of the then Minister of the Interior, Mr. Katrugalou, it was clarified that they continue their work as before, with the continuation of their insurance in IKA. By Law No.4351/2015 and Article 50, it is considered that these workers are now engaged in business and are therefore obliged to engage in a tax profession and to issue the documents required. This is explained by a circular by the Director-General of Tax Administration, Mr Jakas, who, invoking Law.4318/2014, states in the fourth part of the circular: “Since the rental contracts of the natural persons involved in the cleaning of your municipal buildings are extended until 31/12/2016, this activity is not part of the occasional incidents. The income of these persons is derived from business activity and is therefore liable to keep books and data on the fees paid by the municipality.’; We believe, Minister, that this treatment deprives workers of basic rights, such as the permits, the hours worked by mothers of young children and other rights which workers have in these specialties. These workers provide work necessary for the functioning of public services and cover permanent needs, despite the fact that all the governments so far face them as opportunity workers with flexible employment relationships. Work in the field of cleaning by an individual contract is not, as is well known, a choice of workers and in no way a business activity. What we are asking, Minister, is whether you intend, as a government, to take measures to exclude these workers from these tax obligations and their income from being taxed as if they were entrepreneurs and, of course, not to deprive them of the other rights they have as workers in these services.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Tree Alexiadis for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, Mr President, you raise a serious issue with your timely question, because workers who have been very badly affected in recent years - many of them for a long time have been in mobilisation - are coming back to their service and are forced to keep books and data while they are normally working. What's the problem? With Article 50 of Law No4351/2015, as you said, this government has given a solution, extending these contracts to 31-12-2016, because we had to deal with the existing problems and, anyway, these workers also cover real needs in the area of cleaning and other sectors. We have the problem with taxation and we have the job. The problem is that workers, who actually have a job, are working in the public with individual rental contracts, because we were obliged to do so. These contracts were and we extended these contracts with Law.4351/2015. When one has an individual contract of hire and not a contract of subordination - because these are two different employment relationships - it has special tax arrangements. There is no specific taxation or case law for these workers, but there is general legislation which provides that, when there is an individual project rental contract, specific tax provisions are enacted. The taxpayer must keep books and must operate as an entrepreneur, unless he has specific conditions, i.e. whether or not his work is opportune, which he does not need to keep. Of course, that is not the case here, because these workers are not opportunityal, nor are their jobs side by side, but they are their main job. On the basis of the provisions in force, therefore, these taxpayers must keep books. However, in so far as the conditions laid down by the Act, namely their professional establishment, are the same as their residence and provide services, under contracts for services or works contracts with natural persons or legal persons, which do not exceed three or, if they exceed 75% of their gross income from business activity such as that remuneration, they must come from one of the natural or legal persons receiving their services and, if they do not have the commercial property. So these taxpayers, on the basis of the existing legislative framework at the moment, which - I repeat - has not been specifically done for them, are obliged to keep books, but will be taxed on the tax scale of employees, that is, they will be treated as employees. That's very clear. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall close immediately, Mr President, so as not to delay. As far as this issue is concerned, the political, financial and economic framework in which the government is moving is at present very clear. There is at present no possibility of changing both these industrial relations and the issue of taxation. Immediately after the negotiation, however, of the major changes that we will bring to the income tax, we will also look at these cases, because it is indeed an injustice that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Christos Katsotis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for three minutes in order to give a second answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u16	Minister, these are the ones provided by the laws that have so far been passed on to workers and insurance. There is, however, a specific situation which has arisen in recent years, not only from the memoranda, but even before the memoranda, on the subject of industrial relations. These flexible forms of employment have changed the landscape as a whole in the "work market", as it is commonly said. We therefore have a large number of working relationships, so that the employer is relieved of many rights provided for by collective agreements or by the rights granted by the full and stable work of the workers. Here, in what de facto was done by the employer at workplaces, the government comes and legislates such arrangements for these employment relationships, which prejudge business activities. But now these workers have the reward the previous day, the one they had when it was their first contract. They had the rights under the first contract, what the rest of the workers had. As far as tax legislation is concerned, you include them on the basis of the extension of this legislation - that they are no longer contractors, but have an individual contract of work - and you put them in this tax arrangement, which requires of them books and information, and thus also those rights which they had before, in their previous convention, from the municipalities. But that's not fair. I understand that there are these commitments, the commitments of the memoranda. However, such an issue, which concerns these workers, could be dealt with, with the exception of, or at least, going to this category of other workers, which is opportune. They are, contracted, ending at the end of 2016. They are not permanent workers, they do not engage in business. They're not trading. So it could be with a clarification circular, as you did, that the Ministry did not exclude them. It's not something, that is, they'll be one or two or three years. It is a contract, which has been made in this way, because you cannot prolong the conditional employment contract, but this matter could indeed be overcome by an amendment - you have passed various regulations here yesterday - which regulates the issue of these workers. Of course, the scale, as you say, is the scale of the employees. That is the way you have said that they are taxed. But a number of other issues are lacking. Why should they be deprived of them? First of all, these workers are deprived of their milk and their milk to say so. They take away what is necessary in cleanliness, behind the car that collects the garbage, the milk that is necessary for them. Why, then, should they be deprived of these? I think that it will have to be considered by the Ministry and see what solution it will give on this issue, which is important, it concerns many workers and perhaps it is not just for now that it concerns another solution of this kind, because it seems that elastic forms of employment are in life and only with the struggle of the workers can overturn this jungle created by the employer but also by the governments so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. The answer to the current question will be completed by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Tree Alexiadis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u18	I would agree with you, Mr Kattotis, that with struggles these things are overthrown, none of them are given, and the workers must fight. I agree with you in this area, but I do not agree with you that we have legislated something specifically for these workers. Well, let me make that clear. There was a possibility from us and under Article 50 of the law we extended the contracts for one year. I think this is a good thing, and we have to put it down. There are two issues here, however: taxation and labour. As far as the employment issue is concerned, I am not competent to tell you. It is the responsibility of another Minister, but there must certainly be no different forms of employment for the same object in a ministry. At the Ministry of Finance we had permanent cleaners, endless cleaners and contract cleaners. Unfortunately, these things are things that we inherited and we have to deal with them as quickly as possible. However, as far as the tax issue is concerned, you can understand that we cannot bring in a provision, which states that if someone works with alpha employer, it also has this treatment with beta, it has the other one. In tax legislation, the provisions are general. Generally for these workers we will try to deal with it, because where it is, in fact, a dependent employment relationship and it is a relationship that hides a wage-paying job behind the contract, so we also have to deal with it in tax terms. I want to be honest. It is not something that we can deal with at the moment because of negotiation and other commitments, but it is in the areas before us, in the major changes that will come to income tax, to deal with this as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Tree Alexiadis. Ladies and gentlemen, the twelfth under number 614/3-2016 is a topical question by MP II Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about 'creating the climate of tension and the methods of the Turkish consulate in Thrace'. The thirteenth question under number 583/26-2-2016, on the issue of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the "delegation of our Macedonia's name to the Skopje", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The third, with number 677/18-3-2016, is a top-stage question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the "delay of the inclination of the Greek fighters of 1940 in Albania", not discussed because of the impediment of the Minister. The second, with number 685-17-2016, timely question of the first cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Health, on the subscribing of the General Hospital of Rhodes and the problems of functioning in neural areas, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The seventh question, number 606/1-32016, of the new Republic MP Evros Evros, Anastasios Prussaki, to the Minister of Health, concerning the need for a direct staffing of the Xanthi Hospital's radiodiagnostic clinic, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The eleventh question under number 621/7-2016 of the Second Cycle of the MP Elias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Estathias (Ephis) Georgopoulos - Saltaris to the Minister of Health, concerning the work of building the new wing of the Amalada Hospital, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourth under number 681/21-3-2016 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kosilis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the review of the amount of the fine imposed by the Labour Inspectorate and the IKA - ETA for every undeclared worker, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fourth under number 67317-3-2016 topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the lack of strategic planning to deal with the refugee problem, delays in disbursement of European funds, and failure to implement the law granting Greek citizenship, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The sixth question under number 680/21-3-2016, first question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the removal of Greek citizenship by relatives of the former USSR, is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The second under number 678/21-3-2016 topical question of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, regarding the publication of the award of supplies, services and works to deal with refugee - immigration, is not being discussed. Since Mr Kegeroglu is here, I would like to tell you that, in consultation with Mr Muzala, he has told us that this matter is not his responsibility, but Mr Vitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, may I have a word?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u21	Yes, I will, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u22	Thank you for giving me the floor, Mr President. We did not address the question to Mr Muzala, but to Mr Kurublis. It concerns all immigration policy, which belongs to the Ministry of the Interior. Immigration is also the responsibility of the administration of the programmes, regardless of who performs them - another ministry or organisation. Immigration policy, however, is the Ministry of the Interior. As you can see, even if we accept Mr Mouszala's justification, if Mr Alexiadis was not here today, who is - from the figures - consistent with the obligations of parliamentary control...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Apostle was here, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u24	Yes, Mr Apostle was here earlier, which is similarly consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u25	If it were not, we would not have parliamentary scrutiny today. This has been done, Mr President. It's too much! It's no longer like that. We should see what we are going to do in the Conference of Presidents. If it is, we should abolish it. Don't be handwriting in here. Because that's what this is about. Thank you for giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u26	I fully agree with you. We'll have to find a way. We are already thinking about a number of things, such as having a specific day of the week on which all the questions about a minister should be raised. Finally, the fourteenth question under number 545/15-2-2016 on the second question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of operation of the EKA, is not being discussed. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-24-S1-commons.u27	With the consent of the House at 10.15 p.m., the sitting on Monday, March 28, 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed.
