ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 17 October 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 77/11-10-2016 topical question of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Maria Triantafyllou, Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the completion of the work of the Marina Mesologios. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 65/10-10-2016 by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the resolution of the problem created by the implementation of Law 4412/2016, setting out new rules for the award, award and execution of public contracts. 3. The Question No 61/10-10-2016 by MP Pireos of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the calculation of the main pensions of the Naval Apartmental Fund (NAT). 4. The question by No 44/10-2016 of the Deputy of Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR. Michael Jeleighis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the submissiveness of the Directorate of Police of Serres. 5. The Question No 84/11-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems at the Centre for the Health of Moors of the Municipality of Faistos Heraklion Crete. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 78/11-10-2016 of the First Vice President of the Parliament and MP for the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition Mr Anastasios Kourakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the need to re-establish the single price of the book. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 66/10-10-2016 of MP II Athens, New Democracy, Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou, Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the request to cover the empty organic positions of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors. 3. The Question No 62/10-10-2016 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred ninety-sixty Greek children from nursery stations. 4. The 85/11-10-2016 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Health about the problems of operating the anti-cancer Hospital "Theagenio" in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today, two topical questions will be discussed. But for reasons of registration in the Minutes, I have to announce what is being postponed. The eleventh question under number 23/3-10-2016 of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the "action of national moderation from the absence of a Greek flag at a meeting of the Prime Minister with the President of Turkey", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member. The tenth under number 344-10-2016 topical question of the second question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the progress of the work of remote heating Florina will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The first, with number 75/11-10-2016, a top-circuit question by the MP of Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the upgrading of the Messara Agricultural School in Heraklion, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister and will be redefined for discussion. The first, with number 76/11-10-2016, a topical question by the MP Halkidikis of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Catherine Iglezi, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the strengthening of the producers of green olives in the Halkidiki Prefecture, will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the relevant Minister and will be redefined for discussion. The fifth question under number 83/11-10-2016 of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Ministers for Rural Development and Food and Finance, on compensation for the damages suffered by olive trees in the fire in Larisa, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and will be redefined for discussion. All three were timely questions that Mr Evangelos Apostolos had to answer, but he is out of Athens. The second question under number 63/10-10-2016 of the First Cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliamentary of the New Democracy, Emmanuel Konsolas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the revocation of Rhodes from the cancellation of the establishment of the Department of Tourism, based in Rhodes and English-speaking sections of tourist studies, which will be addressed to foreign students with tuition fees, will not be discussed due to an impediment of ministers. Mr. Friend's here. But it was for the Deputy Minister to answer. The third, with number 59/10-10-2016, is a timely question of the first cycle of MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulia to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, about the "decrease of the national sovereign administration of justice through the ratification of the CETA agreement between Canada and the EU", will not be discussed due to a Minister's blockade. The seventh under number 69/10-10-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the proposal -'remove' for red loans, will not be discussed. The ninth, under number 21/3-10-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, Potamis, Jason Fotilla, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the reintroduction of the single book price, will not be discussed. Mr. Stathakis was about to answer. The reason why these topical questions are not made is the visit of his counterpart from Arab Emirates. The fourth under number 67/10-10-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Haras Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the new burglary in the Theatre Museum, will not be discussed. The timely question was to Mr Baltas. The seventh under number 80/11-10-2016 topical question of the first cycle of MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the analogues of the Greek Police, will not be discussed. It was to answer Mr. Toskas. The third, with number 60/10-10-2016, a topical question for the Evian MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the conduct of a thorough inquiry into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos, will not be discussed. The twelfth under number 26/3-10-216 topical question by Independent MEP Lakonias Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Health on the procedure for selecting directors to the National Health System (NSS) will not be discussed. They were to be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Paulakis. The eighth under number 30/4-10-2016 topical question for the second parliamentary assembly of the Radical Left coalition Mr. Irene (Nina) Kasimatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, regarding the suspension of operation of the sales store PPC Salamis from 1-10-2016, will not be discussed. The fourth under number 68/10-10-2016 topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of National Defence, on the decommissioning of the Greek Defence Systems, will not be discussed. The sixth question under number 79/11-10-2016 is the first-round question of the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and MP I Athens of Potamio Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the regeneration of the Picrodafni stream in Attica, will not be discussed. The second, with number 64/10-10-2016, a topical question by MP I Athens, New Democracy, Kikilia, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the new complaints by former Secretary General of the First Welcome, Mr. Odysseas Budouri, who require direct answers, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr. Muzala, abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u2	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u3	Mrs. Zaroulia, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, Minister Stathakis intends to sign the CETA Agreement of the European Union-Canada Summit, which will take place on 27 and 28 October. That is why I wanted to come or send one from his Ministry, because it is not possible for a Minister to sign something, for which the Greek people have not been informed, which has not been voted on by roll-call vote, so that each of us can assume his responsibilities and finally understand what the Greek people are about, who are acting for the benefit of the Greek people and who are not. This signature Mr. Stathakis is going to put...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u5	Do not go into the substance of your timely question. You are expressing your protest because the Minister is not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u6	Look at that. I have to be seated, and I'll tell you why. This must be heard now, because if Mr Stathakis comes then, after a celebration, and this debate takes place, it will be unnecessarily reason and substance. Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u7	Yes, but you are not planning to develop your entire timely question. Say it briefly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u8	I won't develop it. That's what I'm telling you. If I were to develop it, I'd talk ten minutes. I've got a minute. I'm entitled to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u9	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. The signature that the Minister is going to sign with CETA and Canada is a precursor to TTIP, which means that we will grant national sovereign rights. We are guided, in other words, safely, by the conclusion that this agreement is predominant in specific areas, crucial for its economic survival, such as trade, liberalisation of services, including transport, climate change issues, food issues and the protection of our national products. We therefore lead to the real concession of our national sovereignty by agreement other than that of the European Union. In view of this, therefore, our view is that ratification of the agreement must be done with the provisions of Article 28(2) of the Constitution, which you have circumvented, namely by a majority of 3/5 of the total number of Members. That is why we want to relinquish the government. There is no way a minister can sign and make the fate of our compatriots a Japanese communist yaphka. The Greek people must be informed and it must be done in a timely manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u11	As you know, like the other colleagues and the President of this House, I am very strict when, without any specific cause, several ministers do not come to parliamentary scrutiny. But today, as an old parliamentarian, I would like to say that we know that Mr Stathakis and other ministers are at the SYRIZA conference. The conferences of all parties are a respected function and perhaps today is the only case that most of the ministers are justified. The fact that Mr. Friend and Mr. Bernardakis are here gives me pleasure and honor. However, we must keep up with them. I heard this, indeed, is serious. I must inform you that you can return it on Monday and by 27 will be able, if your party proposes it, to put it either on Thursday or next Monday, so that what you say does not happen. First of all, as I heard it, I cannot see what you said. But I have to say, in order not to complain to other colleagues who are not in the Chamber, that today is the only time that there is a real justification for the absence of the Ministers. This applies to all colleagues in all parties when their parties have a conference. We shall now proceed to the debate on the two topical and urgent questions. The fifth will be discussed under number 82/11-10-2016 timely question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis, Minister for Research and Religious Education, on the problem of the country's professional high school. As I said, Mr. Friends will answer. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I am focusing today, Minister, on a subject that broke out a few days ago with a ministerial decision, which causes the mobilisation of pupils and teachers. I'm becoming more specific. After merged last summer, in cooperation with the education directorates, dozens of sections of sectors and specialties in professional high school, you came with your ministerial decision on 28 September, a few days ago, and you close several dozen sections of the ESDP of several sectors and specialities across the country. These are parts that you characterize as a small member. This is the case, of course, with a view to justifying their closure. For example, to give few numbers, sixty sections in Attica, five areas in Piraeus and seven specialties, fourteen sections in Dodecanese and the majority of sectors, nine parts in eastern Thessaloniki, four parts in Achaea. All this and more to all of Greece, you're shutting it down. Your aim, as you say, is from about 35% that was last year the percentage of the oligoberal parts of the ESDP, down to less than 10%. But do you know what this ministerial decision means? It is that you too, in this decision, bear a further burden, among the things that your own government has loaded on the backs of the people's family, since you, literally, let the students who had made their choices, in the first, second, third grade of the professional high school, in the departments and areas that you are currently coming and dismantling. What choice do you give them, Minister? To change school after two to three years, to continue and finish their studies. This means that in Attica they should be moved to two - three or more municipalities. From the Galatians, for example, they should move about eighty kilometers to find a corresponding specialty or sector. Let's not talk, of course, about the islands of the Argosaronic, which will have to leave Aegina and Salamis and come to Piraeus to find the specialities and areas you're closing up. Your policy, Minister, is the policy of cuts, of so-called rationalization. I'll see you in our second. What we are asking, Minister, is for you to withdraw your ministerial decision so that they can reoperate as these departments and specialities should work, so that every young person who has made his choice can continue to do so at the school that he has chosen to do so. Of course, with all the requests we have made from time to time concerning practical training, which must be organically integrated into school and, of course, with all the work rights that students in apprenticeship must have on insurance and payment when they are practicing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u13	The rest in your dentistry, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u14	We ask you, once again, to withdraw your ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u15	Before I give the floor to Mr. Friend, I would like to say the following: The Members of the Golden Dawn etc. Salvation of Vlacho and Ioannis Shahinidis request permission from a short-day absence abroad as of October 17, 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u16	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry that you're reproducing out-of-date and inaccurate news of the closure of departments in professional high school. And even more so, I think it is wrong to prejudge, on the basis of this inaccurate information, the mobilisation of students and teachers. We don't know them. We're listening to them today. The PES operates nine fields of study in the second grade and thirty-six specialties in the third grade. If we start, then, on the self-evident assumption that it is impossible for every PCA to have all the areas and all the specialities - there are no laboratories, there are no educational infrastructure - obviously, we will agree that the few sections must be created when geographical, transport or even particular social conditions are imposed. The notion that every student should have a section - I say it schematically, but a section of three and four children - what it means in large urban centres is a notion of a mistaken school, not in a school, but in another function, more so, anyone would say at home of teaching. Our design doesn't close sections. On the other hand, it provides thresholds for the operation of sections in each PESA class, as is done in any case for all levels of education and each type of school. In fact, the lower number of pupils needed to create departments has not changed. In the first class, it remained fifteen, in the second class, for the creation of a section and a field of study, thirteen and in the third class, for the specialization section, ten. The only change is in the second order because of the change in the structure of the ESDP. I would also like to tell you that by decision of the regional training director, they can operate in remote areas and departments with fewer than eight and six pupils. That's a reality, but it can't be a rule. It's the exception. Especially for the next school year, in the third grade, the departments will operate basically with a guide to their last year's distribution. What you said, we want to go to 10% of the few members, we discredit reality. Last year it was 35% of the parts of the oligomol, this year a thousand seven hundred members have already been approved in total in six thousand two hundred sections, i.e. about 30%, and the slightest difference is due to the change in the structure of the ESDP in the first and second grades. For specialty books, I would like to tell you that, while all the books of general education have been in schools, in PESALs, as in general education since August, specialisation books, as happens every year, are sent, after the registrations have been completed and the departments are finalised. These days it's happening, and then the books will go. To know who's looking for, to what specialty, to what sections, to send the corresponding number of books about these specialties. Also, you should know that PSA books number two hundred ninety-eight different book titles for sectors and specialties and already start their school mission and will be completed next week. The distribution, as you know, takes place on the basis of the apprenticeship potential at the PSA school units based on the "myschool" system. This procedure does not include fourteen ESDP specialisation books because they were amended by ministerial decisions adopted in September. These books are in the process of production and will be delivered to school units in the next period. The PSAs have been upgraded this year and operate just like the rest of our country's schools. It is not, as was the case in the past, a "Cave" for children from underprivileged social categories or a second-class school for children with learning problems, as we were told so far. In my dentistry I will have the opportunity to reply to the last point of your question concerning the incorporation of practice into school. This is a dangerous proposal of early class selection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u18	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u19	Minister, I don't know if I heard you well, but do you deny your ministerial decision? You're saying we're talking here, or are we dispersing out-of-date news? But it's your ministerial decision to cause this problem and it's the one that mobilizes teachers and students. We are not announcing any mobilisation, but there have been several mobilisations, as far as we know from outside your Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u20	None.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u21	It's done. In fact, I was in one of them, too. In any case, you also said, in a cynical way, that we cannot guarantee in all the ESDP the necessary infrastructure. Why, Minister, can't we? What is it that prevents it so that every student in his place can choose what he wants to study, the specialty he wants to follow? What prevents this is your policy, is the policy of cuts, of rationalisation, is the policy of giving as little money as we can and define education, as of course other'social goods', as individual responsibility. In any case, Minister, with your ministerial decision, which exists - and you know it very well - you have signed it on 28 September - you are brutally hitting the cultural rights of pupils and those who come from the people's backgrounds, because we are well aware of the class origin of students who choose technical training. At the same time, you strike and turn this ministerial decision against the work rights of teachers, because in this way you have applied him throughout the range of education, you disappear the gaps, you put them under the carpet, and suddenly surpluses arise and, of course, you are making compulsory transfers of teachers. What we have to say to you, Minister, is that in fact, despite your great words, you continue your predecessors' policy, the Diamantopoulou policy which closed two thousand schools throughout Greece, the Arvanitopoulos policy, Minister, which sent two thousand teachers to availability. That's what your plays show from kindergarten to high school. We want to set a parameter, which is indicative of the toxicity and brutality of this decision. And we're talking just about those students who are in the summer school. Let us tell you, Minister, if you are not aware of this, that in this Esperian PAPAL Kalamata, you are abolishing this specialty, students who are also working at the same time on the day or who will have to leave this specialty or go from Kalamata to Corinth. In the Dodecanese, in Rhodes, which has the only school structure in the summer high school, there you close two areas from the second class. That is the change of structure, which you have said. In fact, with your policy, Minister, you degrade technical training and its theoretical place. This is what your decision to reinstate the language course in the second class, where Literature is being expelled, because you probably don't think these children are capable - or I don't know what else you think - of teaching literature. You also degrade this technical training in terms of its technical part, since you too know very well that from these schools and 11% do not have, Minister, technology laboratories, and about half of them have science laboratories. And now you come to say that we cannot secure these necessary structures in each school unit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u22	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u23	In any case, to conclude, let us say that you are continuing, Mr Minister, and you - with particular passion and commitment - the strategy of the European Union and the capital, so that, on the one hand, the participation of children in technical education is increased and, on the other hand, this technical education will come to a closeer commitment to the current needs of the large companies, which are changing. That's why you enter the concept of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Delia, please. I've left you twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u25	I shall close, Mr President, by saying to the Minister: Minister, we know very well that you are committed to this policy. After all, you have signed it in the Memorandum. We are simply saying that this policy is overturning you. It is reversed by the struggles, which continue, multiply and continue, believe me, because this is how the interests of the Greek people require.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u26	The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Friends, has the floor. A similar tolerance will be for you, Minister, if you need time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Colleague, you spoke on a case-by-case basis about one, two, three cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u28	Indicative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u29	On a case-by-case basis, I repeat. If you had a lot of evidence, mass, you'd say thousands and you'd mention. There isn't. Secondly, your argument that we are going to 10% of the sections to be a little bit dismantled by arguments. The oligomembers are at 30% of 35% last year. And I mentioned why, because we have a second-class change. Thirdly, you admitted that there are no labs everywhere. So, where there are no workshops - and do not put this to the SYRIZA Government too, why have there been parties with Community funds in the past 15 years and have not been built where workshops should be - how will there be such areas? Fourthly, you said that we are the policy of Mrs Diamantopoulou and Mr Arvanitopoulos. This is where people hear and draw conclusions about how biased you speak out of reality. I would remind you that these situations, the previous government, have kicked out two and a half thousand teachers from technical education, which the SYRIZA Government has brought back. I say this again: Two and a half thousand were persecuted by the Samara - Venizelou government and returned with the Tsipras Government. That's the reality. And coming back means areas were reconstructed, specialties were enriched, not mechanically, because, when specialists come back to technical education, they obviously come to teach their skills. So, in fact, what you say does not apply. It doesn't mean it's all good and holy. For God's sake! There are a lot of problems. We also want in the crisis in our country, in technical education to be upgraded and given a special role. Children who will go to technical education should not necessarily go to school, that is to say, technical school should not be a structure of distinguished disciples' leakage, but be a school which gives children a full education and at the same time also a direction. I would like to refer to a point which you have said. Are we downgrading the schools, which we give children a way out, to go to universities with special examinations from technical education, both at TEIs and at IEIs? In other words, we are making ourselves equal to Greek education and this level, this direction, the PES. Are we downgrading the PSAs when we establish apprenticeship as a fourth year? You suggest the apprenticeship enters the class. Is that what it means? That means, firstly, we're going to have a school downgrade. The apprenticeship is six to seven hours a day. That's the apprenticeship. So when we have six to seven hours a day a child working in a business for apprenticeship, when is he going to go to school? Also, what does a child mean to go to school from his fifteenth year? This means lowering secondary technical education to a technical school. We want the child to have a full-time education in the first year to acquire, through a sector, a broader view of the general direction, which he wants to follow in the third year for specialisation and then go to apprenticeships, apprenticeships, which, for the first time, will be through OAED, namely the state, and not a naked relationship between the child and the employer. This means that we will have IKA for the period of apprenticeship and cash sickness benefits. So we'll be guaranteed. This also means that we will have a guarantee that there will be a pensionable time for this apprenticeship insurance. Moreover, the remuneration for the period of apprenticeship will be 75% on the minimum wage of the unskilled worker. Is that what the capital wants - as you said - in Greece? Oh, no. The chapter wants a schoolteacher's naked relationship with the employer. Do you know what that means? A full farm. This is where the state intervenes, the school intervenes, the OAED intervenes and lays rules for apprenticeship. And now - I say it again - in the 15 years' time you will simply have a child to learn to turn a screwdriver - because this means apprenticeship in fifteen years - without a more general view of education, this is a deterioration and - I repeat - a harsh class option early. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u30	Here is the sixth question, under number 81/11-10-2016, from the Member of the Hellenic Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the addition and mobilisation of the sign language to the recruitments through ASP. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Christoforos Vernardakis. Mr. Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, allow me to begin with a brief historical regression in relation to the vulnerable group of deaf and hard, saying that our country's first attempts to train people were made at the beginning of the last century. The first in Greece deaf school was founded in Athens in 1923. Until the mid-1980s the use of sign language in deaf schools was vertically forbidden. The official recognition of the Greek sign language was only a few years ago, with the vote of No 2817/2000. Deaf people communicate with each other in this language. The sign language is not international. So deaf people in each country use their own sign language. Today, unfortunately, no public service can respond to the needs of a deaf or boring person. In particular, this phenomenon is found in the province. Article 21 of the Constitution expressly states that the State shall ensure that the State ensures the health of its citizens and takes specific measures to protect disability, be it spiritually, physically or sensoryly. The State must therefore, by taking concrete legislative and administrative measures, show in practice its interest in disabled people. In accordance with Article 26, the human rights of deaf and hard persons as members of the social group are, like all other citizens, guaranteed by the State and its organs, required to ensure their exercise without impediment. Recognising and protecting the fundamental and indiscriminate rights of all citizens, therefore the disabled, of any category, by the state, seeks to make social progress with freedom and justice. Minister, the recent meeting of the Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights in this House, which I am a member of, on the subject of accessibility of deaf and hard people in public services, was the recent meeting of the Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights. During the debate, and indeed in the presence of a Hungarian MEP, Mr Adam Koza, we heard the difficulties facing these people in their daily lives. The aim of this question is to achieve the best service and to facilitate the everyday life of citizens who are faced with gravitational issues. With the recruitment to public services of people who know sign language, there will be free access to deaf or dull people in all the Services. It is very important, because this is how we respect the language of our fellow people with this particular need. You ask, Minister, what you intend to do in relation to the competitions of the AACC, which, among other criteria, also includes the knowledge of sign language, which brings about an increase in moulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u32	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you have raised a very serious issue, not only for the functioning of the state and the administration but also in general for the functioning of society. It is obvious that the Greek society has serious deficits in handling such issues. The issues of disability have been raised by priority and administrative and administrative practice in many areas. It is not only about people with deafness or increased grief. It concerns all persons with disabilities, blindness, motor disability and so on. So, before us, we have a duty to try to change this model of administration. We've got a lot of things to do. In relation to what you are asking me, that is, in terms of recruitment to the ADP, yes, they are in our objectives and to the law, which we will have the opportunity to discuss next week. As regards recruitment, in fact, for the first time, a percentage of special posts are established through the recruitment of the ADP to a rate of about 15% for disabled persons as a whole. This was announced last week by the Prime Minister at his meeting with the paralympians. However, we also have many other things that need to be done in addition to this regulation. We should fundamentally change many infrastructures, both electronic and institutional, so that these people have equal access and they are probably also served by people who are shareholders of the problem. This means specific practices in the part of the public information infrastructures. This also means special positions in public organograms, which take account of these peculiarities. It is certain - and with your question you are making a great deal of contribution, in my opinion, to this area - that you are bringing this policy at the heart of the debate, which must now become much more systematic and much more continuous. It's a fact that things have been done. If I am not mistaken - to add something - the recognition of the sign language, for example, made by Law 2817/2000, only concerns the field of education. Here we now need to see how the introduction of semantics will be of a wider nature. And we need to see this because, if I am not mistaken, I have a reservation on it - as I have said, it is only about education. So what I want to say is that we are moving in the same pattern as the question. There is a lot to be done, starting with the change in the recruitment system for disabled people in the next few days, which will be legislated in the next few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and two trainers from the 4th Coropi Municipal School. On behalf of the House, I, the Minister, and incidentally the MEP of the region, Mr Katsikis, welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, I tell you as a doctor, as far as 15% of what you said is concerned, I have the impression that this 15% has to be categorised, because there are diseases that cover much greater proportions. I'm saying this so that no more problems are created. And that should be provided for either in the law or say that by ministerial decision - to better process it - this thing will come out after that. 'Cause I'm afraid we're not going to do any good, and we're in trouble. Here, Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President, and in particular your intervention on this matter. I agree with your position. I am also very grateful to the Minister for his general awareness and awareness of the current government in dealing with this problem. I just wanted to clarify that among the other categories that make up the image of vulnerable groups, disabled, etc., especially this group is a group that I need - I want to believe, without discrimination - more than any other person with disabilities, its better access to public services. Therefore, in that legislative framework that you will define, I would very much like to ask you to focus, in particular, on those services which have a greater frequency of citizens' visits to them - so that they and the group of boredoms and deaf people - so that these services - as far as possible - are served by a person who is aware of the sign language for the better service of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you twice for the formality of taking the floor, but also for the substance of your remark. Yeah, it's something we need to take care of, because all our data here is useful. We have changed from the past decades to the whole of this population. We have disabilities now that science prevents them through prenatal checks. But we also have new disabilities, such as motor disability, which is unfortunately on a rise as we see from statistics, blindness, etc. All of these are very serious issues that need to be anticipated, so that we do not legislate poorly. I also take note of the remark you have made. Yes, we need to see how and the administration have slots so that it can serve all this population, which I am passing away is great. In Greece we have created a social system that we have made them invisible in some way. It is, however, a very large proportion of the population, with great problems and administration must, in the context of equality and equal treatment of citizens, take this very seriously now. In this respect, I am very grateful for the question, and I think we will work together to do our best. And that is no longer about ideologies or political advancements, but I think it is our national duty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u38	Since you are students, I would like to tell you this: with what the Minister said, that the motor disability has increased, he meant - in other words - the accidents caused by the petty machines. You guys are still young. Watch out for the bikes. And when you get on the bike, when you grow up, always be with a helmet. Keep these in mind. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-14-S1-commons.u39	With the consent of the House at 10.44 the sitting is closed for Monday 17 October 2016 at 13.00 hours on the subject of this House's work: (a) legislative work on the agenda to be distributed and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate.
