ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 17-3-2016, its minutes of Thursday 17 March 2016 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Requirements for the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the new Antidopting Code of the Antidopting World Organisation and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Under the RACVIAC - Centre for Security Cooperation'. First of all, I would like to say that today's sitting will be held in two parts. We will begin first with the first draft law which is very short and then we will discuss how to proceed with the second draft law. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House by the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Based on what happened in committee, the Golden Dawn and the Communist Party of Greece voted against the Agreement. So the two representatives of the two parties, Mr Papapas and his colleague from the Communist Party of Greece, will have the floor if they wish for five minutes. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, Minister, as we have said in committee, this agreement is supposed to implement arms controls and confidence-building measures in the south-eastern Europe through a specific centre. This agreement was supposed to control the equipment conditions of south-eastern Europe. It seems to us that this agreement is pretext and insinuating. RACVIAC - Security Cooperation Centre is something that has absolutely no use in practice. It is another NATO construction, another creation of multinational centres, centres that defend NATO interests. So the following question arises: What exactly is this centre? What's he doing and what's his mission? Because in his mission and in his field of activity we read: '... promotes dialogue on security and reform, arms control and confidence-building measures'. Even if a well-meaning person accepted that this can be done - control - it is not defined how it will be done in practice. It is not defined how these issues will be dealt with. Will there be any sanctions if something is diagnosed that moves outside the framework of the agreement and, by extension, this centre? Who will these sanctions be imposed by? The control of armaments requires mainly broader will, and it is not something that can be achieved with any agreements or conditions that are actually concluded to create structures in the mechanisms of the European Union and NATO. In practice this centre is another NGO, whose high surveillance NATO and Brussels have, an NGO that inspires the naval interests and neo-tax policies. So we're talking about NATO. What NATO? What brought us twenty-five Turkish observers to the Greek islands, such as the Turkish observer who stepped foot in Chios, who had a seal of pseudo rulers on his passport. And various governmentists are trying to tell us that there is nothing wrong and that they sealed a paper accompanying the Turkish passport. And when local authorities - quite rightly - said that he is illegal and should leave, the remaining six Turkish observers said that 'if our colleague leaves, we will also leave'. Why didn't we let them go? When are we going to bend the head? So this question remains. For us, for the Greek nationalists, the current government's policy - I would say, rather, the heirly coalition of the irresponsible dangers, i.e. Tsipras - Kammenos - leads to a national suicide. For NATO, which Mr Kammenos so proudly told us both in the Commission and in the House that he agreed with Greece to supervise and persevere the Greek Aegean, will be NATO, under the supervision of which our Aegean will share in the middle, in the twentieth mediterranean, namely exactly what Turkey has been seeking since 1974. NATO never played a clean game, did not play clearly as far as Greece and the Aegean. The same is happening today. And for the sake of NATO and the old days of America, the Turkish government's mass media were dismantled. We read: 'We will take our islands without army'. They say it clearly: Without an army the Turks have set foot on the Greek islands. Mr President, in 2016, a few days before the celebration of our national anniversary on 25 March, an explosive mixture of national degradation was created. On the one hand we have lenders, the artificial economic crisis and the economic dictatorship of the European Union. On the other hand, we have NATO in the Aegean, and lately we have the "lathromatic" or "refugee", as you say, which is an explosive problem, in combination with demographics. Last night - I think you were not here, Mr President - the spokesman for the Golden Dawn, Elias Cassidy, and he strongly denounced the SYRIZA's policy on national issues, such as illegal immigration. He accused the Minister, Mr. Muzala, of acts of fundamental national treason and said that we, the future national government of the Golden Dawn - God also give the people to support - will deport him to Skopje. In Mr Cassidy's dynamic complaints, we noted that SYRIZA's advocate, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Kikilias, should also respond to the appropriate answers from Mr Cassidyris. New Democracy was revealed yesterday as the Corporal in essence of SYRIZA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We tabled yesterday - and I conclude, Mr President - in the Minutes the proposal for a law - will also take it in its normal form - of the People's League - Golden Dawn to combat illegal immigration. When this national law is implemented, the major problem of Greece's settlement will cease to exist. Mr President, I will be presenting to you in the Minutes, because a lot of discussion has been held lately, so that the Greek people can also be informed about the Official Journal of the Government a few days ago, on 9 March 2016. With this decision by the Minister of National Defence, the Greek army, the Armed Forces, the children of the Greek people, the permanent and militant people, who have the duty to defend national sovereignty and security, are made in essence - and let not be misunderstood by the expression 'Philippineza' because it means that they are a servant - 'Philippines' of illegal immigrants. They become servants. I'm getting text messages from permanent officers, but also from soldiers. The army's boiling. They can't take that anymore. And we see some huge, 74 million euros being given for feeding, health and entertainment. This decision is scandalous, Mr President. Something has to be done. We are fighting to give the conditions and the money to the Greek people who are falling rather than the settlementrs. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the agreement is concerned, you have understood that we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-four students and students and five teachers, from the first part of the 1st High School of Nice. Welcome to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the ratification of the agreement on the participation of our country in the Centre for Security Cooperation, the so-called RACVIAC. But let us see what a centre for cooperation and security this is. If you see only when, for what purpose, which countries are participating, you will easily understand that this is a multinational instrument for the processing of transnational relations between countries, whether they belong to NATO or cooperate closely with them in promoting the pursuits of these agencies. The objectives and objectives of NATO and the European Union are well known. The fact that this centre was established immediately after Yugoslavia was dismantled does not mean much for itself. The role of NATO and the European Union, as well as of the United States of America, is well known in the dissolution of Yugoslavia. Because they financed the counter-regulatory groups, as they do now, of course, in Syria and acted for their own projects, carrying out the famous air bombings. They also contributed, of course, to the GPS of the various non-governmental organisations, which were supposedly monitoring the migration of birds, and they provided information on where NATO planes should be bombing more accurately. Now they come back to the area to take care - you hear - of the security of the area, build confidence measures and check the equipment they have provided. In view of the third article in the agreement which says that we are controlling arms, they certainly do not mean reducing arms, but basically and in line with NATO's demand, first of all, increasing funds for equipment, and that is what it seeks. That's for granted. Secondly, it seeks to standardise the arms, i.e. equipment that serves NATO's designs and actions and, if any of these materials already in existence are considered to be outdated, to go for destruction and certainly to take new materials that will in no way serve the interests and needs of our country or every country participating in this centre. It simply serves the interests and needs of NATO's aggressive imperialist organisation and the European Union against the peoples of the region. It is therefore clear that we cannot vote with what is being done today in Syria, Ukraine, with the new attack in Libya, with the presence of NATO in the Aegean Sea, which, on the one hand, is questioning our country's sovereign rights and, on the other, is involving our country in new adventures and the expenditure on equipment that serves only these NATO and the European Union projects in the region. We cannot vote and vote against this convention because it not only reduces the equipment but increases them. And it even increases them so that these equipment can be more oriented towards NATO's war demands, which it is carrying out for its needs and, of course, for the defence of its own business groups, capital and multinational operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u5	Mr Minister, you have the floor for five minutes, as you are entitled. If you take less time, even better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because things have been heard, what I want to say about the agency is that it is a regional organisation. It is an internationally independent non-profit organisation with educational and educational orientation. In other words, it has a mild diplomatic activity. For our reintegration as a full member of this organisation there are reasons for political pursuit of course and consistently in our country's policy to support regional initiatives and multilateral institutions in south-eastern Europe. It has nothing to do with what has been heard. What's his purpose? It is the stabilisation of the region in south-east Europe, especially after the dismantling of the former Yugoslavia. It is information and exchange of views. It has nothing to do with arms controls or anything else. It is our country's interest to participate in such organisations so that it can intervene and defend its national interests. That is why we are asking for ratification. I would like to thank the parties, which, for their overwhelming majority, have agreed to this ratification. I would also like to inform the House that on the Agency's website there are all the Agency's accounts since 2008. Any colleague who is interested may visit her. These are the results of conferences, working parties, conferences, etc. My last assessment is that one day after the world day against racism, I believe that speeches and opinions, which have been heard in the Chamber at the moment, have no place in the heart of the Greeks, who have been with their action and attitude toward refugees, an example for the whole world and for the whole of Europe. In Greece such sermons will never find fertile ground so that they can bear fruit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u7	The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is closed: "Following the RACVIAC Agreement - Centre for Security Cooperation". Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u8	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u9	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u10	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the RACVIAC Agreement - Centre for Security Cooperation" was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue with the second draft law. Only a discussion and a vote on the principle of Articles and of the whole draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adjustment of Greek legislation: (a) in the provisions of Directive 2013/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 and (b) in Article 1 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents unanimously decided at its meeting on 16-3-2016 on the draft law at a meeting. I propose that the draft law should become uniform, namely, in principle, the articles and the amendments. First of all, from the Golden Dawn Mr. Papas, from the Democrat Party Mr. Loverdes, from the Communist Party Mr. Karathanasopoulos, from the New Democracy Mr. Danellis, from the Golden Dawn Mr. Papachristopoulos and from the Centroon Association Mr. Karras, while rapporteurs will be from SYRIZA Mr.Ioannis Golias, from New Democracy Mr. Apostolos Vesiropoulos, from the Golden Dalis, from the Golden Dalis Panagiotaros, from the Democratic Complex Mr. Ioannis Kotsoukos, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. I now propose to you in view of the fact that at night we have the known meeting to finish as soon as possible. The proposal I am making to you is as follows - if you accept it to end it earlier - and there will be a relative tolerance: the time of the rapporteurs from fifteen minutes will be twelve to win half an hour, the parliamentary representatives will remain twelve minutes depending on how many colleagues will be written - you have a right with your e-mail card to the first two rapporteurs to sign up - and we will see how much further. In addition to those adopted in committee, two amendments have been tabled. From what I understand, they may also be signed by Mr Stathakis, but it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Tourism. I assume that Mr Stathakis or Mrs Koundoura, before the rapporteurs are finished, will come to present the two amendments. I also hear that it will be tabled - it has not so far been tabled - and yet another amendment from the Ministry of Finance, not by signing Mr Alexiadis but by Mr Juliarakis. This means that after we have been developed by the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives - if they so wish - the new amendments will be able to take a second place to the two amendments tabled and the one on the one hand, which are en route, as I have been informed. Does this House agree with this process?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u12	Good, thank you very much. And so we start with the first rapporteur from Syriza...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u14	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u15	I would like to say something which, I think, reflects the House together. We are watching with great concern what is happening at the moment in Brussels, the security issues, and I think it will be different from today. The Greek Parliament, therefore, because it is meeting at the moment, I think it has the utmost concern about what is happening. We are expecting precisely - and we must say that - to see what happened, whether it is terrorist acts or not, and we certainly hope that there will be no victims.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u16	I take it one step further and say that if it is proved that it is terrorist, the condemnation of this act is unanimous. Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr. Giolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the main axis of the new regulations is transparency regarding the financial situation of listed companies and rationalisation of existing stock exchange legislation. The new draft law is capable of improving the investment environment, contributing to the stimulation of the market and the economy, and of providing legal certainty to trade, as part of the reconstruction of the production base, which is also the main objective of the Government. With a view to offering more flexibility to listed companies and reducing the pressure on securities issuers, the new legal framework abolishes the obligation to prepare quarterly financial statements for the first and third quarters. So they will have two for each financial year. The listed companies will publish half-yearly and annual financial reports, and this will reduce the financial burden on small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. In addition, the deadlines for publishing the annual and half-yearly economic report shall be extended. On the other hand, however, these reports will be made available to the investment public for at least ten years instead of the five planned to date in order to ensure enhanced publicity and security of trade. In the same context and in order to facilitate the submission, accessibility and analysis of the annual financial reports, a new arrangement is added whereby, as from 1 January 2020, the annual financial reports are now drawn up in a single electronic format, provided that the European Securities and Markets Authority has carried out a cost-benefit analysis. The same positive assessment is made of the new provisions of the draft law, which clarify and simplify the definition of the issuers' Member State of origin and provide for greater choice of a new home Member State so that it can respond at any time to the actual situation of issuers in a constantly changing economic environment. The definition of an issuer is further specified in order to include legal and natural persons. In addition, transparency shall be strengthened regarding payments made to governments by issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market and which are engaged in primary or logging activities, as such payments shall be disclosed to the public on a separate report and on an annual basis and shall remain available to the public for at least 10 years. In order to ensure that issuers and investors are informed of the ownership structure of the companies, but also of the protection of the public of the investment, the obligation to disclose financial instruments for all instruments having a similar economic impact to the holding of shares and shares is extended. In order to avoid the creation of an incorrect picture of the ownership of listed companies, compulsory disclosure now covers and includes new types of financial instruments such as securities, options, futures contracts, swaps and others. As regards the mechanism for the central storage of information on securities, introduced for trading, a new obligation is introduced for the mechanism to be interconnected with the portal, which will be a European electronic access point, known as the ‘access point’, from the start of operation. This also promotes and ensures easier data exchange and information on a single European basis. Given the need to ensure compliance with the law requirements, the new arrangements strengthen the responsibilities of the Securities Committee and its powers to impose sanctions. In particular, where it is established that financial reports submitted by issuers are not compiled in accordance with the provisions in force, the Securities Committee may request their re-issuance or publication of a corrigendum. The Securities and Exchange Committee, supported by the power to impose higher financial penalties and strict administrative measures, such as the public declaration, which shall mention the responsible natural or legal person and the nature of the infringement. It is permissible to suspend voting rights and even to delete securities. It also provides for the publication of the decisions imposing such penalties and measures, so that publication is made public and has a deterrent effect to the general public. Article 1 of Directive 51/2014 amends provisions on the public securities offer and their admission to trading. Improvements are therefore introduced in the way the final terms of the offer are disclosed, not included in the basic prospectus or in a supplement thereto. Furthermore, the Securities and Markets Committee in the event of cross-border tenders or where securities are to be admitted to trading and a regulated market situated in another Member State, shall notify the conditions to the supervisory authority of the host Member State and to the European Securities and Markets Authority. We now enter Article 6 of the new law, which is a national choice and an arrest of the government. This aims to increase transparency in relations between credit institutions and the media. In particular, all credit institutions are required to publish in their annual report and their official corporate website all payments made for advertising, promotion or promotion, directly or indirectly, to the media enterprises, as well as all amounts paid as a sponsorship or by other charitable reason, to natural or legal persons. This political initiative by the Government promotes the truth and transparency in the operation of the written and electronic press, and it is necessary to deal with phenomena of opacity and possible unfair transaction between credit companies and the media. The new draft law significantly improves the rules of the financial sector and contributes to stimulation of the market and the economy, stability of trade and the creation of a secure investment environment. Financial stability and confidence in the stock market system are essential for a beneficial investment strategy, for economic sustainability and growth. At the same time, the Government - as I said before - on the initiative of the introduction of Article 6, on the relations between credit institutions and the media, increases the guarantees of transparency, promotes the truth and confidence of citizens in the institutions and contributes to dealing with unfair trade and interconnections. And, of course, we have listened with great satisfaction to proposals from Elassonian Anti-Population, perhaps other shares, to extend this measure to other companies in the wider public sector as well as to the public sector, which, as the Minister has said, are looking positively at the government, even though I must point out that the whole of the parties, which have been ruling for over forty years, had not taken such an initiative and had not taken any legislative measures to combat opacity and unfair trade, which, unfortunately, had a negative impact on public life. I now need to stand by the four ministerial amendments that have been tabled to the committee. With Amendment No 282 and specific number 63, as now incorporated as Article 7 of this Act, the necessary measures are taken to staff the Directorate-General for Budgetary Control so that it can now obtain a sufficient number of staff with sufficient control experience to ensure that the necessary checks are carried out. With the next amendment, which has now been adopted as Article 8, there is a new provision which has emerged from the adoption of the cohabitation agreement, so that a joint declaration by the cohabitants can now be submitted. In addition, by extending a similar arrangement, in force for the tax year 2015, people such as unemployed, householders, students, participants in work experience programmes and vouches are treated for the purposes of justice, and since they have a real income which does not exceed EUR 6,000 and their imputed income does not exceed EUR 9,500 and are not engaged in business, they are expected to be taxed in the scale of employees, in which case they have the well-known reduction in the tax of EUR 2,200. With the third amendment tabled so far, number 284/65, as incorporated into Article 9 of the draft law, the issues of the loan contracts concluded by the Greek Horse Riders Agency, the FDI, with credit institutions and for which the Greek State guarantee had already been granted. Following the same practice as the Concert Hall of Music, the outstanding balance of the above loans is taken over by the Greek State. Finally, with the relevant amendment, the fourth, which is now incorporated as Article 10 in the bill, is extended for one month until 3 May 2016, in order to introduce professional loans and small businesses into regulation, in order to enable them to alleviate or remove part of their debts. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the amendments necessary to regulate financial data, stock exchange practice and the normalisation of the economy have been made in this piece of legislation. It is a piece of legislation that is deemed necessary, repetitive, that is a directive of the European Union, that we have incorporated these articles, and I think it should be accepted by all of Parliament's forces in total. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u18	We move on to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Vessiropoulos Apostolos. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law adapting Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2013/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22-10-2013 and in Article 1 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16-4/2014 comes to Parliament at a time when the government is trying to disorientate from the major and serious problems created by its policy. This is part of the evening's debate on the pre-dated provision, which has been selected at the time of the government's being led to a new tax raid on medium and low incomes, when a bill on insurance is being prepared with pension cuts and extinct insurance contributions that are impossible to operate effectively within a climate of recession. The Deputy Minister of Finance has already begun to prepare public opinion by saying that the hard things have been done and the worst is here! How far away all this sounds in relation to the flawless memory program of Thessaloniki, which I'm sure you don't want to remember and more you don't want to be reminded! The New Democracy is a power of responsibility. With a sense of responsibility it is addressed to the citizens. Any attempts to disorientate, even if the government does, the problems that are accumulating in its policy are here. They can't hide. They are experienced and suffered by every citizen. And we are here to highlight them by speaking with the language of truth, tabling realistic and reliable proposals. We're here and we won't let anything fall down. Nothing will be left unanswered. The famous moral advantage your government has long lost. As far as the draft legislation we are discussing today is concerned, the adaptation of the two specific European directives and the amendment of the legislation in question, which is being drafted, has two main objectives. Firstly, transparency regarding information on the specific characteristics of issuers whose securities have been admitted to trading on the regulated market. In this way investors will have full information and knowledge about the structure and ownership of the companies they invest in. Secondly, flexibility in the context of securities issuers, in order to reduce the administrative costs burden, but without any transparency reductions. It is defined in specific terms and in a new legal framework by the Member State of origin of those issuing debts from third countries, in accordance with rules and procedures which include the obligation to disclose such debts on the part of the issuer. You are well aware that the New Democracy has worked constructively towards this bill, which we support in principle. I do not want to be tempted to remember how SYRIZA acted as opposition during legislative debates, which provided for the adaptation of European directives to Greek legislation and, in particular, to the cooperation of the tax authorities of the Member States of the European Union on tax evasion. The memories are fresh. We all remember the sterile and unexplained refusal of the then military opposition to support even the self-evident ones, as we are doing today. I imagine that you have seen all the constructive way in which the New Democracy approached this bill, but also the amendments that have been tabled, which, of course, have nothing to do with the bill. The arrangements of the European Directive 2013/50 aim at the obligation to disclose financial instruments on the part of the issuer. Why is that so? Because, quite simply, the possession of some financial instruments can have a similar financial impact on having shares or similar rights, and investors must know that. The choice and designation of the home Member State for issuers making the issue of debt securities was also necessary. In accordance with the arrangements of the draft law for issuers of a third country which issue debt or shares, the Member State of origin must now be what they choose between Member States, in which their securities have been admitted to trading on a regulated market. It must also be clarified that the reference to debt instruments concerns those whose debit value per unit is less than EUR 1,000, as referred to in Article 2(2). The definition of ‘issuer’ is also fully defined. The issuers will henceforth also be considered as issuers of non-listed securities represented by repositories, which may correspond to a number of shares. In this way, we have a comprehensive definition of the issuer's concept. Most importantly, however, this regulation makes it clear that securities issuers can be natural persons. With regard to the securities issuer's obligations to establish transparency and sound functioning rules, these are condensed in the following: The issuer must disclose the Member State of origin within a period of three months from the date on which its securities were first admitted to trading on a regulated market. If it does not, as a Member State of origin, it shall be considered as the Member State in which the securities of the issuer have been admitted to trading. If the issuer's securities are admitted to trading on organised markets located or operating in more than one Member State, those Member States shall be considered as issuer's home Member States until the issuer of the securities makes public one single Member State of origin. An obligation to inform the issuer in the event of the acquisition or disposal of financial instruments is made clear and unnecessarily binding, and there are penalties in the event that this rule is not complied with. With regard to the other aim of the draft law on the reduction of administrative costs for enterprises in order to strengthen and develop the money market sector, this includes the abolition of the obligation to draw up quarterly and monthly financial statements for listed companies on the Stock Exchange. The financial statements will henceforth be issued by listed companies every six months and the deadline for making these statements public, with a maximum period of four months for the annual financial statement and three months for the half-yearly period. The reduction in administrative and financial costs is apparent from this arrangement, while the abolition of quarterly and monthly financial statements is linked to the minor supervisory importance that they had at a net practical level. Why? Because only the half-yearly and annual financial statements of listed companies have a certified supervisory value, as they are signed by a sworn accountant and not quarterly or monthly. In addition to the reduction of administrative and financial costs, this arrangement provides a way out of the difficulties faced by certain companies to provide the relevant information in time and before the expiry of a quarter, despite the fact that there was no problem of legality in the transactions and their management. In many cases these companies were threatened with sanctions, while the untimely disclosure of financial statements per quarter was the cause of shattered and malicious rumours. We have a positive view of extending the powers and powers of intervention of the Securities Committee and, in particular, requiring additional information and information that should be included in the annual and half-yearly report of the board of directors of each listed company, but also in the annual and half-yearly financial report, which may relate to the activity of the issuer or the companies controlled by it. We have, however, set a prerequisite for this regulation not to be an empty letter of content. Who was that? It was the need for support with the staff of the Securities and Markets Committee to be able to carry out its supervisory role effectively. This need is as important as the provision of more stringent economic sanctions and fines included in the provisions of the bill. There is also the provision that the investment public will have access to the half-yearly and annual reports for at least ten years, while until now the time limit has been five years. I would like to make a reference to Article 6, which will make public the decisions taken by the administrations of credit institutions for payments for commercial advertising and for amounts considered as sponsorships. We have all agreed that this provision should be extended to all public enterprises and organisations. But the problems of the banking system have not been solved by this regulation, which you and your policy have created, and I have pointed them out in detail during the debate on the draft law in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing down with one reference to the amendments tabled. I think it is unnecessary to point out this anti-parliamentary practice which, instead of exception, has turned it into a rule. What has long prevented you from bringing the amendment to the tax year 2015 of the arrangement that stipulates that low incomes obtained by unemployed, households, students and those taking part in subsidised labour experience programmes will be treated as wage-earning income, in which the amount of the tax reduction of EUR 2.100 will be calculated? In fact, I had tabled a relevant question to the Minister of Finance, and I had pointed out that this would have to be done immediately and well before tax declarations were lodged. And you're literally coming in at the last minute and bringing in concrete arrangements. At the same time there are other open issues. We are at the end of March and the system for submitting tax declarations has still not been opened. This will have an impact on the number of instalments and on the dates for payment of income tax, in the sense that they will accumulate citizens' tax obligations, so that the latter cannot respond, and that there is a negative reflection of public revenue. Is there any chance that the first instalment of income tax could be paid in May? On these issues we have still not received an answer or, to be more precise, the government has no answers. I shall now refer to the amendment setting a different date for the submission of tax declarations for natural persons who have participated in legal persons. I told you and the committee that the condition of the profitability of the legal person should be removed from the explanatory statement, and I am glad that you understood it, since a natural person cannot know whether to close the financial year with profitability for the legal person in which he is involved, in order to submit the statement. We also continue to have serious objections to the amendment mentioned in the register of financial controllers and auditors of the ESA. There must be full transparency in the process of displaying interest and choice, just as it has been with the provisions that our government first introduced and implemented. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy supports the bill in principle. The responsibility we are adopting is a long way from the position of sterile denial and populism that you have adopted in the recent past. But it must not be misinterpreted. It's not a white check. You don't have a white check. On the contrary, you have accumulated many gray clouds over the country. Your government has lost the people's confidence, because instead of winning this trust with a weapon the truth, it has attempted to win it with false hopes and promises. The time has come for the account, except that a large part of this account will be called upon to do so by Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Besiropoulos. Ilias Panagiotaros, on behalf of the Golden Dawn, as a special speaker, has the floor. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. We have now heard the rapporteur for the New Democracy who has told us very good things. He told us that the New Democracy is a power of responsibility, when his party owes 230 million euros to the banks and of course he will never repay them. We have heard that the New Democracy does not issue a white cheque to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, but you were also voting together on the third memorandum on 14 August, the most disgraceful of all, as you are trying to justify that you did this so that we would not get out of the Eurozone at the same time as, in general, you are voting for what everyone else is voting for. We have heard that the New Democracy is here to solve any problems that exist in Greek society. But you have created these problems in Greek society, colluding with PASOK for over forty years. We also heard the SYRIZA rapporteur speaking, as did previous rapporteurs in other bills. They have become king-in-laws of the king or even - to put it better - Memorandums and the most memorandums. If anyone listens to your speeches, your positions and your intentions before 15 January 2015, he will certainly think that you are a completely different party, which has nothing to do with what this country has been ruling for a year with the important help of the Independent Greeks. We read today in the newspapers - you will have read it and deserve a comment - Mr Stournara's statement - you know - this banker, who went bankrupt several banks until he becomes commander of the Bank of Greece and went bankrupt as well. He said that the memorials didn't cause the crisis. Maybe he's right. The crisis was caused by the politicians who brought our country here and forced the gun to the top - as they say - to vote for the memorandum to take the money, the bankers who broke down the banking system not one but many, borrowed over 200 billion euros from the Greek people. The Greek people were required to borrow the banks to go bankrupt and back bankrupt and rebank the well-known scenario. And from everything they show, we will soon also have new bank lending again by the unfortunate Greek people. Do you really think the engraved Greek economy will recover? This is how our financial system will be refined, which is intolerable at the end of the earth, with incorporation of directives according to the European Union. Because that's what this is about. It is a bill that you were brought out and which obliges you to incorporate several directives based on European Union standards. And it says the title of the bill: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation: (a) in the provisions of Directive 2013/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 and (b) in Article 1 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 and other provisions’. They're more technical provisions. Articles 1 to 5 include in the Greek legislation the directive we have before us, which amends another directive. We're talking about purely technical provisions. The only thing you can see is in Article 2. The companies listed on the Stock Exchange will now issue financial statements for six months and annually instead of quarterly and nine months. As if this will help recover the Greek stock exchange, which is choking the stones. The deadline for these situations is also extended to four months for the annual financial statement and to three months for the six months from the end of the reference period. This is done in order to reduce bureaucracy and the cost of these reports. The powers of the Securities and Markets Committee are also strengthened, as high financial penalties are provided for. We see an article that is interesting and needs comment. It's Article 6. It provides that each credit institution will publish in its annual report and its official corporate website the total amount it has annually for all kinds of commercial advertising directly or indirectly, as well as the distribution of this amount in detail by legal person - mass media. In addition, it will make public any payment that does not fall within the budget of commercial advertising, for example, a grant made in the context of its public relations or other activities to the media, as well as any payment made as a sponsorship to anyone. Disclosure shall be made in detail by a legal person who is the final recipient, and if the recipient is a natural person, the amounts concerned shall be disclosed as aggregated. By joint decision of the Minister of Finance and of the Minister responsible for the supervision of legal persons and bodies subject to the General Secretariat for Information and Communication, the obligations of credit institutions referred to in this Article may be specified, in particular as regards the degree of analysis and the way in which the relevant information is presented. It's an article that's interesting. It shows that an effort is being made to stop this money out of the banks to various, my ad for advertising. But - as they constantly come out day to day data - most of them will obviously be other kinds of dealings. Of course, we'll have to think about the ads, because it's worth commenting here too. If anyone watches the ads of the four banks left, he will see these days, either at bus stops, on television or in other media, that if no one knows what these banks are, he will think that we are in Switzerland or in another country where the banking system is literally blossoming, developing and moving. The total deception of the Greek people through these ads! I mean, money that they're being thrown into to advertise their many bankruptcies. And surely this should be an object of investigation and control, how it is possible to deceive the Greek people in front of their eyes in such a sloppy way, as we said before, of advertising.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Panayiot, I'm sorry for a few seconds, I'll keep them for you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after having previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the School of Moraitis, and fifty-six students and students and six educational attendants from the second part of the 1st High School of Nice. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Keep going, Mr. Panayotare.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u23	This is done at the same time, I repeat, where the Greek people rank the banks in a very low order, through a barometer, which saw the light of publicity a few days ago. He thinks the banks are completely improper. And at the moment when the Greek people are falling, when the Greek economy is being destroyed for the seventh consecutive year and nothing is being done about the substance to correct the bad texts, we are bringing formal amendments in the view that this is how we will save the Greek economy and the Greek society. You have also brought some amendments pointless, which could have come to other bills more relevant, to have something to do with them. It's four so far, and now you've told us that one more thing we're looking out for will come. In the end, we will tell you our opinion. Amendment No 283/64 is an amendment containing three regulations. The first arrangement provides for a different deadline for the submission of an income tax declaration for natural persons and legal entities keeping census books. The second regulation allows persons who have concluded a cohabitation agreement to submit a joint declaration of income tax and have the same treatment as married persons, i.e. a common cover of documents and a transfer of tax rebates. Fortunately, all this is being done and society is moving on and on. Finally, it was extended until 2014 - the relevant provision, whereby income acquired by occasional or opportunistic employees, unemployed, householders, students, participants in work experience programmes and, if they are not professionals, has not done, i.e. start-ups of work, to be treated taxly, for reasons of tax justice, as an income earned by the amount of the tax reduction of EUR 2100. Whilst the amendment contains a positive arrangement, it must be voted down by us and voted against for what I have said, for the second regulation, which simulates those who conclude a cohabitation agreement with those who are married. We see another amendment, on 228566, which extends until 3-5-2016, from 31-3-2016 currently in force, the deadline for the submission of applications by viable small enterprises and professionals with regard to their relief and settlement of debts to financial institutions, public and social security institutions. In this way it is expected that more small enterprises and professionals will be included, due to the extension for one month of the possibility of applying, in the provisions on the relief and deletion of part of their liabilities to credit institutions, in whose funds the State participates through the Financial Stability Fund, TF. It is a positive amendment that we shall be voting in favour of. There is the amendment on the FIFG. There is also the amendment on the Register of Financial Auditors. We shall vote against the amendments to the IPO and the register of financial auditors. I would like to point out again that the banks are basically bankrupt, since depositors cannot take their money because of the capital controls, which you have brought them up for a short time, but it seems that they will perpetuate until people's funds are exhausted, because they will have been taken away from them all or have been bankrupt or everything else that is going on in our country. At the same time as our homeland is under attack from other sectors, we are talking about the banking system. But if you look at the map of Attica, dozens of hot spots exist or are built perimeterly in Athens, at hub points, next to camps, next to ports, next to PPC units, from fuel or electricity plants, and we do not see what has happened in other countries, which had refugees, illegal immigrants, had "incorporated" them, and today we have new bombings in Brussels. We do not know what happens to us, they pull us under our feet, not only in Greece, but throughout Europe, and we are curled by other things. Development will never come by incorporating European Union amendments and directives into our national legislation, while at the same time the trunk, the pillar of all healthy economy and society, which are the small and medium-sized, craftsmen, farmers, are literally being exterminated. Those who can, have fled abroad, to neighbouring countries such as Bulgaria, Skopje or Albania, countries that are others are not within the European Union, which means that the European Union offers us absolutely no good in this area. Large companies have resorted to other countries, such as Luxembourg, which are tax havens within the European Union. They have gone to Luxembourg, which, through Mr Juncker, constantly shakes our fingers, pushed us, put us to the ground and continues to the detriment of the Greek people. We are voting in favour of the principle. When the time comes for the articles, we will tell you what we will vote for and what we will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u24	I would ask Mr. Ioannis Koutsoukos to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is sometimes the harsh reality, which sets the agenda differently in politics than we define and programme it. It is clear that this new terrorist strike this morning in Brussels will test the resistance of democratic Europe, the rights and freedoms of citizens, as it is clear that the democratic Europe and its conquests cannot be a firm fortress to deal with the phenomena of upgraded terrorism, unless there are international initiatives and cooperation to hit the root of evil and stop some playing with their geopolitical interests. This is an observation because I believe that this is the central issue of today. I'm coming to the bill now. With today's bill we harmonise the Greek legal order with two directives, Directive 2013/50 and Directive 2014/51, which aims to facilitate public information procedures by listed companies on stock exchanges, so-called publishers, and I will make a comment on this. Also in this bill, the government has tabled a number of important amendments. I was in a hurry to congratulate Mr Alexiadis on bringing forward four amendments in time, and we were able to discuss them, but bad habits, Minister, you are not going to avoid them. The six second nature! Last night you tabled two other amendments. Let someone tell us if she could read them. In any case, I will make a reference to them and see what we are going to do in the end. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the global financial system faces various challenges and risks. Obviously this environment is being exploited both by well-intentioned investors to attract capital and also by small savers to securely and with the expectation of a profit, their money and the various speculative funds, which often exploit this framework, to create huge crises in the international financial system. We've seen all this. We have seen them, and they have even fallen out of their predictions and international organisations guaranteeing a credible interpretation of financial phenomena. Unfortunately, global or international organisations with the responsibility for supervision are in these cases too late to make arrangements, so those who want to take advantage of the procedures find new methods and we are running from behind and so on. In any case, it would be worth talking about the checks, transparency and operation of the Stock Exchange for Greek citizens if the Greek Exchange were to be of interest at the moment. At the moment there is no interest in it. The Greek Stock Exchange fully illustrates the crisis and deterioration of the Greek economy, and it is obvious what happened some time ago with the recapitalisation of the banks, where simple investors and shareholders lost their money. However, the directives that we are coming today to incorporate into national law have a number of regulations which make it easier for publishers, those who are listed on stock exchanges, by the pressure to publish quarterly data and to make profit by transferring this communication of quarterly data on an annual basis. They shall be granted extensions in certain cases where they have not been able to prepare their data and the obligation to notify them is extended. There are some provisions which will in future be very useful, such as the one mentioned at the point of access, namely a portal, and the one which allows for the single electronic format to be available, that is, in total within a platform that has uniform features, that this information can be published. This is very interesting regulation, despite the fact that it is actually referred to in the future, because the technical infrastructure at the moment, not only in our country but also throughout Europe, is not there and has not even been worked out. I would say that no one can enter a dilemma, whether or not to vote on these provisions. It's self-evident. In order not to abuse your time, I will stop the directive and come to the amendments which have been tabled in good time and are articles of the bill. Before I arrive at these amendments, however, I must refer to Article 6, because it is an article, which is not linked to the directives, despite the fact that the government has attempted to divert it from one distraction. What does Article 6 say? Article 6 states that credit institutions are required to make entries or publications they make, make annual communications. Minister, from your rush, you have not seen that the obligation for quarterly announcements is abolished by the previous article. In other words, Article 6 cannot impose obligations that we are abolishing with the previous article. See the comment of the Scientific Committee and correct it. In any case, the government has a sensitivity, as it says - because this is not really the case - against the so-called interlocutory. I imagine we'll hear a series of known stories again this afternoon. In other words, instead of the government telling us how what it has in its hands - the Lagard lists, the lists of fifty-five thousand that we brought with the Bank of Greece's stamp, with the provision that SYRIZA has not adopted, with the opening of accounts, the Liechtenstein lists, London and so on. - that he will use it to collect money, we will rehearse the well-known story of complexity. It is a wrapping, with which the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group is also to vote for the difficult things that are coming. So, as you say, you are going to hit this interconnection, which gives money for media advertisements, which then support it, because you do not do so - the proposal I made in committee was very clear and I repeat it in plenary - and in the case of the ECJ. The excuse you are telling me that this bill has nothing to do with it is not based anywhere, and the provision of Article 6 has nothing to do with the bill. So if you want to hit the source of maliciousness - because, as has recently been proved, there is a hive that creates either blackmailers or blackmailers - then you need to extend this provision where the Greek people manage money. Greek people's money is managed by the CECE, listed on the stock exchange. Because the provision you make on the basis of the n. 2190, it concerns listed companies on the stock exchange. So you have no institutional problem. Once you have decided to intervene in the operation of a listed company on the Stock Exchange, such as a credit institution, in the same way you can intervene in the need to make advertising and media benefits and by the ECIs public. I repeat that the latest phenomenon that needs to be investigated in depth, to see who is blackmailing, who is blackmailing and how this mediation takes place, makes us all not just suspicious but obliges us to insist on this argument. I believe that, above all, you personally have no reason to adopt this provision, Minister. I now come to your own amendments. Minister, you have told us too many times that you would speed up the procedure for submitting tax declarations this year. You said that you wanted to do that - and I have no objection to this argument - to break the doses in much more than two-monthly instalments. That was very right. What prevented you, Minister, from bringing the previous regulation to the House in time, and it concerns having a tax on those who have an income of up to EUR 6,000 and are not professionals? What prevented you? The coexistence agreement - that is to say the harmonisation of the procedure with the coexistence agreement - has been passed for too long. Is that also in the negotiation process? You're putting under the approval of lenders so simple things? So, you, who would rip out the memorials that you would have pushed out the troikas that you didn't even say the word troika, did you put it self-evidently in the negotiation process? Because the regulation you have brought us is self-evident and that is why we are voting for it. On this occasion, Minister, I would like to ask you this: can the Greek Parliament have any further information, apart from the fact that the Catholics have Easter and that our lenders and our partners will return after Easter? For we have also caused you and Mr Tsakaloto, and we have not received any response. It is not a question of whether the negotiation has to do with the implementation of the agreed and voted for by the Greek Parliament, this framework of what was voted in the summer. The question is, if the debate is being held at the moment is about a plus memorandum, that is, if our partners find that by 2018 there is another budgetary gap - for which there is a dispute between the IMF and European institutions, whether it is 5% or 7% or 3% minim - and which obliges the Greek Government to take additional measures in budgetary and fiscal and insurance. This is the major issue, which concerns not only SYRIZA - who says that the people knew what they voted for in September - and which I repeat are additional measures but also the Greek society, to know. I now come to the other amendment concerning the Law Treasury. We told Mr Stathakis last time - who brought us here the extension of the deadline for those who guarantee the first residence - that we have so far given three extensions and failed to resolve the issue. So now an amendment is coming, which gives an extension of a month to the Law Nine. The Law does not work. The government has included him in the negotiations on so-called red loans. Of course, I'm afraid we'll get green loans too. Anyway, if it is not certain that this one month deadline will reach you, let's give you six months, and I hope you'll solve them well. As far as the other amendment on the financial controllers is concerned, I have told you that we will vote on it. But we want some guarantees of how the register is to be completed. Of course I have a reservation to the end, because we have asked for explanations - which you did not give us - about why the state should take over the non-currency loans of the IMI, which is in the winding-up process. I would also like you to see the Scientific Committee's comment on whether this is contrary to the state guarantees rules. I won't insist on that. But there must be a justification for why, while an agency is being wound up and can, with the product of liquidation, pay the loans, we have transferred them to the central government. I don't understand why this is happening. With regard to the two final amendments - and I shall end, Mr President, in half a minute - I would have no objection to voting on the provision, so that the medical sources may be cleared. There's a relevant law. You have been a government for over a year and you could have arranged the licensing procedures for medical sources. You didn't. Let's go get an extension so they don't close, because the summer season is coming. Let's also approve the licensing process for ski resorts, even though the season is over. But you can't bring us along last night, so we can vote on them this morning. I think we need a little seriousness in the legislative work process and better processing of the provisions! This is not one of my findings, but a finding by the whole House whether we belong to the majority or to the minority. I shall conclude with that, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u26	I would ask Mr Athanasios Vardalis to come to Stepma from the Communist Party of Greece. I would remind you that for the late amendments and whatever is tabled, after listening to the ministers, the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives will be able to answer and place themselves, if they so wish. Mr. Kutsuko, I left him because he was short. Just keep it in mind, so that you don't consume this time. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the debate so far both in committee and in plenary today, what we feel is clear to us is that all parties agree - and, indeed, make the point - with the harmonisation of Greek legislation by means of Community directives that shield the interests of the stock exchange and promote the integration of the capital markets of the Member States of the European Union. It seems that the issue of the operation of the Stock Exchange is not on offer for two-party fights. In other words, your Stock Exchange unites you. But let us see what you agree on: First of all, in that the proposed regulations stimulate the stock market and favour investment and the economy in general. You have all said that it offers more flexibility to listed companies and that it reduces financial and administrative burdens by abolishing the obligation to draw up quarterly financial statements for the first and third quarters of the financial year. The deadline for publishing the annual and half-yearly financial report is also extended, while ensuring that issuers and investors are fully informed about the ownership structure of the companies. You all agree on this, which has nothing to do with the interests of the workers, but concerns the few, the large capital, those who speculate through the Stock Exchange. You see, the modern and expanded needs of capitalist production and traffic must be served. Now we still have a directive of the European Union, which is incorporated into national law. After all, many directives have been incorporated and the permanent argument has been that trade in the stock market is transparent or equal access to information from all investors. But from the experience so far, even if one simply observes developments around the Stock Exchange, one will understand that this is a mechanism for raising capital and redistributing incomes to the benefit of business groups. The stock market has not been made to produce wealth nor for people's well-being. It is clear that this reality cannot be changed by laws and state regulations, such as the ones you are trying to do in the draft law that we are discussing. This is because any arrangements do not affect the nature of the Exchange. The big words of transparency and control are 'other words to be loved'! They will always find a way to deceive the so-called 'investment audience'. On the substance of this directive, listed companies are facilitated by reducing costs and bureaucratic functions, in particular through the publication of their financial reports and the extension of the timeframe for their publication. It is an attempt to create a single market of values so that businesses with greater ease and security can be sold and purchased. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of stock exchange transactions is a matter of - and it must be - the holders of capital. It does not concern those who have some savings, regardless of whether the capitalists lubricate them, in order to strengthen the overall volume of funds on the financial markets. Workers and people must be aware that the way in which stock exchange transactions are conducted is increasingly reminiscent of an unprecedented gambling. In other words, it is easy to find the enormous distance that exists between various sectors of society's productive activity and those on the Stock Exchange. The question of trade economic relations will come and return to the surface. From this point of view, the most important thing is that many people, that is, poor people, workers, should know that financial markets are a matter for a few. Some people in the committee have argued that the stock exchange means raising funds for businesses and thus creating jobs. They tried to convince us that, along with the increase in capital profits, there will be positive for the workers as well. They also argued that we should not be afraid of capital, because capital is what will bring jobs and growth and so what is needed is to lay rules and that is what the current government does. Therefore, workers, back-to-back workers, must have a meaning not only for the operation of the stock exchange but also begging for the price index to go well. This argument, of course, does not fall within the logic. As long as you see that a number of companies that raise capital from the Stock Exchange, at the same time proceed to redundancies, transfer their productive activities and their headquarters in other states, etc. A characteristic example is the 'COCA COLA', which has made redundancies of two and a half thousand workers, has closed in the past seven factories in our country and has transferred its productive activity to the Balkans and elsewhere to shield its competitiveness. Maybe you'd better ask yourself. What's wrong with the whole story? There will be profits, investment, jobs will be opened, unemployment will fall, growth will come and, in the end, years will be restored and the losses of workers in recent years will be restored. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case. First of all, the anti-grassroots, anti-grassroots framework, formulated in previous years, will remain inexperienced, because this is a precondition for investing in large business groups to regain capital profits. That is why the government only guarantees the people are certain crumbs for relief from the effects of its anti-grassroots policy. Secondly, capitalists require new tax exemptions and tax exemptions, debt write-offs, favourable arrangements to reinstate their capital in our country. These facilities will not be unpaid. They will be paid once again - indirectly or directly - for workers and for the people. You are already ready to incorporate new drastic changes, even worse than the original plans, adopting suggestions of the quartet in tax, insurance, budget. It is now clear that the objective of recovering the profits of capital, whatever government it serves, means unrelentingly hitting labour popular rights, a blow to the labour market and incompatible with relief, the recovery of losses and rights lost in previous years. Reform of insurance is part of the plan. The anti-grassroots road to the recovery of capital will not be complete. The insurance will follow the work and who knows what else. All of this increases capital gains and goes bankrupt. What we want to say to the workers and the people, is that on the Stock Exchange the only winner is capital. The stock exchange was, is, and as long as there is, it will be "sea" of capital. For example, the theft that took place between 1999 and 2001 was made for the sake of the free market in order to increase the profitability of business groups. For the same reason, the insurance funds have been used up. It is an instrument to draw easy, cheap money from the people. It's a robbery mechanism to make richer and poorer. They never benefited people's forces from the stock market game. They just lost. The easy profits they promise at times are bait. Every time a circle is closed, the people come out twice and three times lost anyway. That, in short, is capitalism. That's the capitalist barbarism. As far as Article 6 is concerned, there has been a lot of discussion. The explanatory statement itself assures us that the specific regulation proposed is, firstly, compatible and is provided for in the third memorandum and, moreover, does not constitute a government intervention in the work of credit institutions. Yes, sir. It also argues that it wants to increase transparency in the decisions taken by the administrations of credit institutions in the fields of commercial advertising and all kinds of grants. The JRC's assessment is that publicity is not going to prevent any involvement. Such buds bloom everywhere in the territory of capitalism and in the effort to secure the highest percentage of profit. Clearly, they will find a way to overcome this kind of 'difficulties'. To conclude, I would like to say that the working class, the people's movement will give their answer, a response forward, to the extent that they realize, through their own experience, the need to fight for their own prospects, to get rid of exploitation relationships, to match socialised production with social ownership in the means of production. By addressing the workers and the people's spheres, we tell them clearly not to seek solutions where they do not exist. No more sacrifices of the people on the altar of the monopolies' profits. In order to better their lives, it's just their struggle, it's the struggle of the people and first of all the workers. Do not show any confidence in parties that say "the Exchange is a solution for you and the country". What is needed is deep and radical changes in the economy and society. Solution for the benefit of the people can only come if the people's struggles are strengthened against big capital and anti-grass policy if the parties that serve their choices are weakened. The indignation, the anger for the anti-popular measures taken by the ruling Left, as well as the emotion, the indignation, the anger for the caravans of the uprooted, the drowning of innocent children, is not enough, if they do not turn into a consciousness of the necessity for the break-up and overthrowing of the exploited system, if they do not become an active life stop for a society and power that will have at its centre the needs of the workers, the people and not the profits of the monopolies. It is obvious that the JRC is voting against the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u28	The special speaker of the river Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of lies continues its disastrous work. We have made a proposal for a State Secretary for Immigration to coordinate things and we see that you have accepted it, of course, indirectly. You put Mr. Fervey, a Dutchman, to be the deputy minister and to coordinate us, to coordinate both Greeks and Turks and NATO and all. It is also a step forward. Perhaps it is also the way to solve Mr Muzala's problem, since it is degraded by the Dutch immigration commissioner. So you will also be able to escape from the crisis. Mr. Muzalas told us yesterday that Amyldaleza never closed. Really? Didn't SYRIZA turn it off? He couldn't? He didn't want to? Now that we've put the immigrants in handcuffs in Piraeus, are you glad? If you're happy, say it. Please say that you have not been forced by Europeans to make this policy, that Amydaleza is a good one. Say that as long as you kept her open but empty, the more you made Idiot. This is your policy: 'Ammondales' and 'Speeds'. The worst of all versions! By the way, explain how you're going to empty Eidomeni. You made an estimate that in less than a month it will be empty. How? How do you estimate they'll leave? Violence? The worst part is that the Immigrant Ensemble is going to be emptied. But the other "Suspended"s? What do you do with the "Sinced" of the unemployed? Nothing. What about the 'Suspended' of small and medium-sized enterprises? Of course not. You're barely filled with new small and medium-sized ones on the ones the previous ones filled with. Why? Why are you incapable? Sure. Why are you lying? Absolutely. Mostly because you're unconscious, and you only care about the chair. Enjoy your chair. As handsome as the throne is, you have set him on the mud of the misery of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, your failure on all fronts, but corruption in particular, leads you to exacerbation. The Himalayan cat has proved it. You don't care how you get into it in general and how you do it. You care about their involvement in making and replacing it with your involvement. You are corrupt and the more you raise tons without result, the more you prove it, the more each Greek understands it. So we'll hear you at the miserable theatre that you and the opposition are going to set up together. Ladies and gentlemen, we come every time to pass bills and incorporate Community directives with stress what other amendments you will be tabling: unnecessarily, sudden, delaying, unconstitutional, into the limits of the functioning of the institutions. You have now brought two new ones, special ones, and we are waiting for a third that we have not seen yet. Prolongations! Legislation on your own incompetence, that is, the public. You solve no problems and simply give extensions. We need to build a commissioner to give them up automatically. We must not always have protracted protracted amendments. Of course, it is so sloppy that you tabled Mrs Kundura's amendment with a report on consequences from another amendment, irrelevant. You did not even submit the right documents to the House. So much in the leg! At the same time, citizens - and especially the small and medium-sized ones - are listening to leaks and surprise scenarios for new contributors that will increase the burdens of EUR 1.2 billion - another such extraordinary contribution, one2 billion, we get from the special levy on two to the Greek people - to reduce the tax rate for a new scale for households with a further EUR 0.8 billion to increase the excise duty on fuel. And the new fruit is HISPIA in cars. You have declared war on the owners of the IX. What about cars? HIS VIEW IN THE WORLD. At least put on the cars that are still in motion. At the same time, it remains unknown what will happen with the loans of small businesses and professionals. What happened to this red line? It's forgotten. While adding insurance to them, the total burden on specific small and medium-sized groups is expected to become huge for their potential after seven years of crisis. So you'll be ineffective. In other words, you're going to ask us for more measures. Of course, all of this is coming to the end of a trade, the advance payment of tax, to the HISA where you reduce the objective values to increase, as it now seems, the rates. Since the numbers do not come out, the concept of "civil enemy" extends to the small and medium-sized, the "class enemy". Everything is sacrificed to prevent any reform, no cost reduction, no structural change. Your policy mix is taxes, taxes and taxes. The deindustrialisation of the country, the sixty thousand companies in Bulgaria, the closure of the SOFTEX and the "CONTINENTAL" factories, ten thousand padlocks in small and medium-sized enterprises in 2015 tell you nothing. The young scientists, the minds and youths of the country, who leave massively, say nothing to you. Your failure to attract foreign investments or even convince the Greeks to make their money out of the mattresses and put it in the banks and fleeing the existing ones, still doesn't tell you anything. The dues of citizens and corporates to tax, funds and banks are cumulatively higher than once in GDP. 2015 is a year in which you increased taxes and moved outside the objectives of the original budget. However, even more critical is the fact that late tax debts increased by EUR 1 billion a month. How will the citizen cope with this last raid on his incomes that you are preparing? What makes you think that these measures that see the light of publicity will in fact not only lead to an increase in tax dues? Let me come to the amendments. With Amendment No 283/64 you are changing the provisions of the Income Tax Code. You are still regulating the topics of declarations, and once again the announcements to open the TAXIS as of 1 February remain in the air. Regarding the Minister's announcements for more doses of income tax, we are obviously in agreement. But this, in order for it to succeed, requires that the whole process with the declarations does not delay any further. In relation to the extension of Law No.4307 Nines, for one month, it is confirmed in the most official way that the arrangements for small loans are the subject of the current negotiation. We asked how many companies have made use of the provisions of Law No.4307 and whether the publications are true that we are talking only about hundreds of entrants who have joined and have not received an answer. With regard to Amendment No 282/63 on the register of financial auditors, it is good to extend the tank of individuals from which the financial auditors are drawn. It's not negative for there to be more employees who can be employed by the control workshops. There must be enough. However, earlier the movement of auditors every six years was intended, through the mobility of employees, not to establish relations between auditors and auditors. Now we see that mobility is limited to a section and not a directorate-general, enabling auditors to remain in auditing posts for far longer periods with all the risks that this entails. You are facilitating the possibility of corruption with this amendment. For Amendment No 284/65, by which the Greek State takes over the loans under liquidation, you leave us no choice but to accept it. Why? Because there is provision for a chain of bankruptcy - cross-fault - in the loans of the EMI, with regard to the guarantees of the Greek State. Therefore, if the Greek State pays them after the bankruptcy of the OLAF, the rest will, in fact, go bankrupt, the guarantees of the Greek State. Obviously, we cannot consent to finding the Hellenic Republic in a state of bankruptcy. Finally, the article on the obligation on credit institutions to publish information on their advertising expenditure and sponsorships is positive. Here we shall agree with Mr Kutsuku's proposal. It has to be extended to the ECJ as well. You don't bring it because it doesn't interest you. Do it at the CECE, to all those who participated in the Greek State. I had reported that SYRIZA's man in ELPE controls these sponsorships. All companies involved in the Greek State must be obliged to publish all kinds of grants. You also have no framework for the lending of the media by the banks - and I have asked for this in the debate of the Media Bill here in the House - while you have made the Minister a mighty force with this same bill on licensing issues. While you deceive the role of the PSE, you come with an aspirin on advertising issues. Acceptable, but it's just aspirin and it doesn't help the illness. Ladies and gentlemen, the government in economics, as well as institutional issues, brings together and designs incomprehensible practices and arrangements for a systemic perception. Especially on the front of economic policy, the proposals that see the light of publicity are counterproductive, unenforceable and intensify uncertainty and thus bring about even greater destruction. Even worse, the majority of them set the target of a large majority of the Greek people, the majority that will pay you back with the same currency you are paying for today. Be sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr Theochari. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Thursday 24 March 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of its Rules of Procedure). (Parliament adopted 1. The question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiota Vranza to the Minister for Rural Development and Food concerning the allocation of rights to support the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) for the period 2015-2019. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Health, concerning the subsistence of the General Hospital of Rhodes and the problems of functioning in neural areas. 3. The question by No. 677/18-3-2016 was raised by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the "delay of the burial of the Greek fighters of 1940 in Albania". 4. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction about the lack of strategic planning to deal with the refugee problem, delays in disbursement of European funds, and the failure to implement the law granting Greek citizenship. 5. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis on the exclusion of contract workers in all areas of OTA cleanliness from tax obligations to professionals. 6. Under number 680/21-3-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the removal of Greek citizenship from the ex-SRF. B. PERSONS OF second-circuit Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of its Rules of Procedure). (Parliament adopted 1. The question by No 674-17-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religion, concerning the increase in the number of importers in the pan-Hellenic exams for the 2016-2017 academic year, from earthquake areas of the Prefecture of Itonokarnania. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the publication of the award of supplies, services and projects to deal with refugee - immigration. 3. The question asked by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the danger of the national network of Amphisia - Lefkada - Preveza - Igoumenitsa. 4. The question by No 681/21-32016 of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassiliou Kolkalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the review of the amount of the fine imposed by the Labour Inspectorate and the IKA - EBRD for any undeclared worker. 5. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilia Panagiotarou, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the "missing of the Orthodox Hierarchs from the Greek schools". 6. The Question No 648/11-32016 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the educational needs of the Municipality of Phastos Heraklion of Crete. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 606/1-32016 by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias Prussias, to the Minister of Health, on the need for a direct staffing of the Xanthi Hospital's radiodiagnostic clinic. 8. The question raised by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis on the application of municipal fees by the Municipality of Patras to professional establishments in the area by decision of the Municipal Council. 9. The Question No 466/1-2-2016 by Mr. Attica of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the "millions shared by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to the bankrupt parties". 10. The Question No 615/3-2016 by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the possible establishment of offices of Turkish Organization in Greece. 11. The Question No 621/7-2016 by MP Elias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Estathias (Efis) Georgopoulos - Saltaris to the Minister of Health on the work of building the new wing of the Hospital of Amalialada. 12. The Question No 614/3-2016 by Congressman Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the 'creating the climate of tension and the methods of the Turkish consulate in Thrace'. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the "delegation of the name of Macedonia to the Skopje". 14. Observed. Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Health, Question No 545/15-2-2016 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKAB. Mr Kammen and Mr Katsiantoni, on your own approval, otherwise I will not stop, if you want me to give the floor to Mr Stathakis for five minutes to support his amendments and to give the floor to the Vice-President who has asked to speak on the bill for 15 minutes and continue. Only if I have your approval.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u31	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u32	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u33	The approval was given. Here, Minister, you have the floor for five minutes on the two delayed amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. We have tabled two amendments relating to extensions for ski resorts and health centers. Let me focus on the first, the ski resorts. As you know, we have inherited a situation where of the twenty-four ski resorts, only the four have full permission, i.e. have covered all the conditions of the law, including the environmental impact study. In the rest of the ski resorts there is a delay, partly responsible for some of those who really have financial difficulties. I would remind you that three of the ski resorts belong to private individuals and the other twenty ones belong to municipalities, municipal companies, the General Secretariat of Sports, various sports clubs, mountain clubs, regions and the EBRD. Under the circumstances and due to the difficulties, there is a delay in the issue of environmental licences, I repeat in part, because of the problems of the economic operators in the centres and partly because of the well-known delay in issuing, evaluating, placing and licensing environmental studies. There is one problem which we must solve immediately, and that is what this amendment does, which proposes that a two-year extension should be given only to complete environmental studies. The licensing mark must meet all the other conditions of the law, i.e. all the supporting documents must be as they are so that it can get a ski centre, that is, there is no way, but the environmental study to get the special operating signal. Therefore, only for the environmental study in the light of these problems is a two-year licence. For all other certificates guaranteeing safe operation facilities users and all other procedures, to provide the special mark shall apply as the law is without any extension at all. This is therefore an amendment which gives a two-year extension only of the environmental study to complete the permanent licensing of the twenty-four ski resorts. The second amendment under number 291/70 refers to health centres. There the problem is partly legislative, i.e. there is ambiguity in the law as to how these waste water is characterised. This legislation is usually characterised as industrial sewage, for which the law has raised various problems in its implementation. The deadline is much shorter here. Basically it is until the end of the year, 31-12-2016. The central idea is that centres should be able to operate by giving this short extension in order to complete the process for environmental studies with some improvements in the law, which are necessary in the intervening period.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u35	Thank you. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to talk about Article 6, which introduces a new practice, a new regulation, which concerns banks and their expenditure on advertising, sponsorships, etc. The regulation, therefore, provides that banks should notify their costs to the final recipient, whether this is via a paper, such as newspapers, televisions, websites, etc., either institutions or anything. The amendments tabled also provide for certain procedures for monitoring the implementation of this regulation, as well as for penalties by the Bank of Greece and the Securities and Market Committee. The first point I would like to make is the necessity. What prompted us in this arrangement, which we can say has concerned us from the start? The way the banks operate up to now has raised a number of problems, pathogens beyond formal legality or not. The particular here is that bank advertising costs are high and therefore affect not only the banks that are advertised but also the market of advertising, promotion. In other words, banks can positively or negatively affect an entire market, which is the media market and therefore affect competition in this market. A study should be carried out by the Banks Union, if possible, or by the Bank of Greece, which is mentioned in the past - particularly in the 2000s, which was also a decade of great growth, both banks and adverts, etc. - and this study put banks' loans into one column, in another column, to put the interest on these loans and in another column to put the adverts on, because the banks that provided the loans also gave ads to the media. It must be done here, because with the information I have had, I have only been making an indicative effort for one year. In many cases, the bank which provided the loans, for example in a band, covered advertising expenditure and much of the interest on the loan, in some cases and in full. So think about the relationship that is being formed. A bank gives someone a loan. At the same time, however, it has the responsibility of serving the loan, because if advertising is not enough, it is not enough, the instrument cannot serve the loan. It is therefore an incentive for the bank to give advertising to the instrument it has borrowed in order to be able to serve its loan. We understand here that this is a distortion of banking function, because next door there may be an innovative business that cannot get a loan and a mechanism of unfair enrichment is also created. I would not be surprised if the study I said it had to be done, see that advertising expenditure for some years also exceeded interest. So someone gets a loan, makes a media company with the loans, the interest on the loans is repaid by the advertising that banks and he himself has a goodwill, which is increasing. What is now the dangerous part of this mechanism which has been set up and which is often called the complexion, etc.Huh? I prefer it to be a form of capitalism, based on mediation either of political power or of other types of mediation. The problem is that when the advertising expenditure is reduced because of the crisis, the companies thus set up are not viable, are in bankruptcy and the loans thus granted are not also helpful. So it accumulates the problem, loans are not served, companies are not viable, and this whole system needs regulation. Our intervention here is a grain of sand, someone would say, in all this mechanism. It doesn't solve the problem. But it creates a treaty of transparency. It obliges the banks to be public and from there on, anyone could and can judge the policy of each bank, etc. The second reason that prompted us, especially at the moment, to take this initiative - and I am glad that a number of MPs from what I have seen and from the opposition are advocating - was, of course, what was revealed by gangs, criminal organisations, blackmails, etc. It is therefore a positive step. We can't have a delusion. If anyone wants to do this, beyond these provisions, they will be able to do so, but at least there will be the law and the authorities will be able to exercise control over the economy, the market and society. What is the attitude of the banks now? By judging some anonymous articles, some complain that this causes them a problem and makes competition difficult. Why does it make competition difficult? Transparency makes competition difficult. I have here the aggregates of advertising expenditure for one year, I think in 2014. Here we see that one band took 1,5 million euros, the other million euros, the other 800,000 euros, the other one was not getting anything. On what criteria are these? We do not intervene in the policy of banks. If a bank wants all advertising expenditure to put it on a form or instrument, that is its right. What we are asking is to be known, and if the bank wants to, it can give an explanation of its policy. I think that the measure we are introducing will facilitate competition - in the right sense - and even moves it, where competition must go, namely the quality of services and the service of the customer rather than underground and secret funds. However, I would like to say that the majority of bank managers, on the basis of my communication, consider this regulation to be positive. In fact, as a banker said to me, he also relieves them of a problem, implying that he relieves them of pressure from the press "why you gave them there and don't give anyone else". So the banks that want to do their job properly are positive too. So, I can assess that those who whine, they probably want to do other things than what they say they want to do. It is therefore a positive regulation for society, which is positive in the broadest sense of the banking system, which is positive for the shareholders of the banks that want transparency too. I heard there was an observation that the measure could be extended beyond the banks. I must say - the relevant ministers will also speak - that we are politically in agreement as a government. There are also bodies other than banks that, due to the volume of their advertising, may not have this relationship with a creditor - a debtor, but they certainly affect the market and the media sector. For example, the OPCW could do so on its own initiative, due to the large amount of advertising expenditure or Internet betting companies or the ECJ. Therefore, if the government and the relevant ministers are prepared to extend the scope of this regulation to all other sectors, I personally have no objection and I would consider it positive. If, however, there are legislative reasons for this, which requires a study, I would suggest that there should be an appeal from now to the ECJ and other bodies, at high advertising costs, to apply this provision, until specific legislative intervention on this matter has been taken. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Therefore, by means of this regulation, we are extending transparency to the sensitive area of banks. He's sensitive, because the banks manage our savings. Therefore, reputation, confidence, the image that society has for banks is important and I think that helps from this point of view. It is therefore one element of democracy and democracy is one of the prerequisites for getting out of this great crisis. I hope, therefore, that the House will support this particular regulation if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u38	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u39	What would you like, Mr. Alexiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u40	I would just like the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u41	Here, Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u42	In his speech the rapporteur from Potami referred to the members of the government with a very heavy political expression. He said: 'You are corrupted'. Because we cannot let that pass, we call on Mr Theocharis either from the Minutes to delete this expression from his speech or submit the relevant information for the members of the government to substantiate this expression. With regard to how refugees will be removed from Idomen, we will not follow the example of the then political leadership of the Ministry of Finance on how it removed cleaners and other protesters from the Ministry of Finance. We know that. We're not going to follow them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty two students and students and four educational sessions from the 1st High School of Nice (C' Department) The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Dimitrios Kammenos has the floor for twelve minutes by the ANELs. Here, Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the adaptation of Greek legislation to European legislation is something to which all parties thankfully agree that it should be adopted. It brings the rules of transparency, legality and regularity to the Securities and Markets Committee to a large extent. As I have said in my suggestions to the Committee on Economic Affairs, it is part of the European Union's strategy to bring in a uniform mechanism for monitoring and safeguarding all transactions, both banking with the banking union and transactions in stock exchanges with the stock exchange union or the association of capital markets that will follow in the years to come, so that there are common rules on security, transparency and procedures, especially those that have and hold shares and move them within the European Union, in the euro area, with the transparency that must exist. For we need to know that the European Union has an open borders on the movement of capital and persons. When transferring funds, any person or citizen of the European Union can therefore buy a share in any stock exchange in the Union. But there must be rules that ensure transparency and legitimacy. More than that, we need to be careful about money laundering, or money that is used too often for stock purchases or intangible securities, and comes from illegal activities. These must be eliminated, because we see what is happening in the world. I want to give a little parentheses, if I may. I believe that all my fellow Members here and my friends are listening to the children from school, we should be apprehensive and very sorry about what happened today in Brussels. With the dreadful act of getting a bomb into the waiting area, check in, at Brussels airport, we have - if I read well - more than twenty people dead and many injured. They are blind hate attacks which have no place in the favoured and democratic Europe. All states must be careful, tolerant and democratic, but there must be laws and order. Our older people were saying - if you were to see it in the movies - 'class and moral'. There has to be order, there has to be control. We have also seen an example - which I welcome - of the boat that came with the irregular immigrants, I think, from Chios to the port of Piraeus. They were right to be arrested because they were irregular immigrants. They had no reason to have passed, to have been blackmailed by the Turkish slaves and, of course, to have paid thousands of euros to come to Greece with a false prospect. But it was also a lie of their own application to the Turkish authorities - if you like - or to slave traders that they are immigrants or refugees. They weren't immigrants or refugees. They were irregular immigrants, and that is why they were arrested and transferred to detention areas, where the process of either requesting asylum or returning back to their home country in Pakistan will be followed. This shows that Greek democracy works, creates a sense of security and a sense of cohesion to the Greek people. The Greek people should not be concerned. As far as the laws and laws that we bring to Parliament are concerned, I would say that today's directive is also common sense and must be implemented. We must be in line with European law on the good - as I have explained - and also with the legality and transparency of transactions in stock exchanges. Article 6 is very important. This government introduces it and applauds all parties. That's good. Through Article 6 we put a regularity and transparency - if you like - on the relationship between the media and the political system and the citizens. It's a triangle. The media never gave or were forced by any legislator or government to make public a list of their sponsors, advertising companies. This ensures transparency. And the aim of this government is, to the greatest extent that we can achieve it, to have a demilitarisation of society. We do not need, by indirect blackmail, to give a sponsorship, to give a big ad every month, every week or every year in a very large media to manipulate it, and this instrument must have direct reliance on 'we', that is to say, a company or a bank, in this case, which gives this money so that it can pass its policy, which can be right or wrong. At the same time, however, the media have a very important role to play. They must be informed, as their definition is media. Information must be fair, unannounced and without being motivated or assisted. In order to have this transparency now, with this legal framework, they will give the sponsors the advertisers, so that the whole world will know who they are who give the money to live on the media. It is not illegal, it simply has to be a regularity and transparency. Perhaps the media's only revenue is advertising, and from now on, there are other television programmes, such as telemarketing selling products and having an income. However, its basic revenue is advertising and from this revenue has to cover all costs, which are payroll and all the operation of the station. So it's important advertising revenue and it's what gives him life, so it's directly dependent on it. With Article 6 we pass on to this kind of regularity, transparency, so that the people and we and the citizens and all the MPs and their competitors in the media know who gives money to whom and what comes from there. As far as the delayed amendments are concerned, we support them, for the very simple reason that we manage various crises in this government. The inability to testify in time is not a question of this government - and I am not looking at the previous ones. So it is the Greek public system and there are many co-legislative ministries. I remember that once, in order to obtain a permit for an investment in Greece, four to five years ago, we needed twenty-three signatures from twenty-three different people, for one licence. That's still there, unfortunately. This is a part that the Greek Government must change, reduce the public process and dependency of the businessman on the public. However, if we think business, we must give flexibility to a number of areas and activities such as ski resorts, spas and many other things that go through. We are saying here that we are giving the extension, that they are all legal. We cannot have illegal centers or not fully licensed, for example, ski resorts, which have tourists Greek and foreign and must have the minimum safety and service rules, because tourism is our main product. From there on, I will stay here for a while and close, because as Independent Greeks, as we have said, we are voting on the bill in principle and on the articles, as well as on the late and other amendments that have come to this bill, for the reasons I have explained. I'll be a little sad at Mr. Kutsuko, my friend. Because everywhere there's PASOK. For good reasons, I will not go into details. But you can be sure I know all the details. In other words, I know everything about this contract. These are three loan contracts: Two with ABN AMRO and one with TT. The two with ABN AMRO were made with magical German law, with loans that were of the type of bonuses, which are neither bonus nor a loan to a company, called Schulthein, hybrid schemes borrowed by the Greek State in 2001, in 2002, in 2003, with ministerial signatures by Dr. Dr. Floridis, with the relevant Minister, Mr. Venizelos, Olympic works. These in the credit contracts were supposed to have been used for real estate. In 2008, we stopped paying them and guarantees fell. The magic damage to the Greek public! The state guarantees suddenly came down, which were 100% of the two hundred eight loans, under German law. Withdrawal of TT by Eurobank, liabilities were transferred to other companies. We will see these in my timely question, which will have to do with how this money was used, because today we are torn away from the bomb, the bomber. To answer and help my friend Harry - because he had not read the loan, which I read, but to know why we are paying today, because the public is being called upon, there is a simple answer: there was a clause in the loan contract signed in 2003, in the two contracts of ABN AMRO under German law, that if the company is being liquidated all the obligations that exist since that time. There's no more next day to pay. If we don't pay today, we go bankrupt. And that's right, Harry. There's also the term cross-fault, that is, diagonal bankruptcy in any other bond that has a Greek bond, which is bankruptcy, if you like, and a default on a Greek guarantee, which is not good for the Greek economy, because the guarantees of the entire Greek state are in fact bankrupt. So this had to be done. It is happening, yes, and I would like to say that these loans will at some point be searched, why the payment stopped in 2008, if they took the money where the loan contracts were told, if they were paid with the right interest and due interest and if the 1% was paid, Minister, was provided with the public guarantee. I close by saying that I do not think we should eat too much time for today's process, because it is reasonable, fair and we should continue, see from here and now what is going on, politically, to lower tone, because migration is a very sensitive issue. There are very specific ways in which we need to deal with it. There will be a crisis management team. The crisis is specific, and all parties must agree not to use the immigration of neither of us in the government nor in the opposition, for political reasons, but to see how we can give a solution to people who are being tortured. Here I would like to congratulate - and I close with this, Madam President - and the Port, which was able yesterday, by hitting the machines of the smugglers, to capture two smugglers outside Chios, but also the secret services and the Greek legal order in the Ministry of Public Order, the Minister, who managed to catch the so-called 'provocators on the left', who shared the brochures in Idouni and urged the police to make troubles, to create a sense - in the cameras, in the BBC and in all foreigners - that it is the Greeks who attack policemen and who have provocations at the border, in a sensitive area for Greece, with Skopje. There were people, Greeks, ladies and gentlemen, who said to the tortured, "go and attack the police". What should the Greek state do for these people he arrested yesterday? Congratulations to the Greek authorities who arrested them, but the question remains open: What should we do to them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u45	Mr Alexiadis has the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u46	There are two legislative improvements. One is in Article 6, where we are dealing with the various problems, in relation to the amendment that has been tabled, and we are giving a solution to these specific issues. The other is a legislative improvement concerning the explanatory statement. We accept what the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Besiropoulos, has said, and the words 'which obtain income from the distribution of profits on 31 December of each tax year' are deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u47	Mr Katsiantonis from the Centroon Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the current bill, companies are now obliged exclusively to draw up half-yearly and annual financial statements. In other words, the quarters and nine months are abolished. The deadline for their publication shall be extended to four months from the end of the reference period for the annual and three months for the six months. We can see this as a precondition for the market. Your pursuit of a turn of investors in a longer-term strategy could prove to be unconscious. If the volume of information received from the private economy is reduced and at the same time there is no appropriate use, then it is reduced, both the transparency and the credibility of the domestic market. Of course, the truth is that the practice of publication of quarter and ninth - month statements had no supervisory value. They charged the listed companies with training and publishing costs. In addition, legislation threatened sanctions and negative publicity when some companies could not provide the necessary information in time. As is known, moreover, only the half-yearly and annual financial statements of the quoted are signed by a solemn auditor. That is why we insist that you pay particular attention to the implementation of this aspect of the bill, that is to say, to the benefit of both the private economy and the state. We assume that these arrangements were imposed on you by our partners, because our experience with your governance has not shown us that you are particularly interested in private companies. Your ideas about private capital are all known to us. Besides, there you come and now, to get money from the additional measures imposed by our lenders. Consequently, it seems to us completely utopian or at least pretextful to try to make the lives of private businesses easier. But let us move on to another burning issue of the bill. Mr Tsipras always says in his statements that the private market cannot be regulated on its own. For example, in the case of media and television licences. He recently argued in an interview, that he has limited the licenses and intervened so strongly, because the free market does not have the capacity to regulate itself for the past twenty-five years. And I ask you, gentlemen, at this point: when did we have a free market in Greece? When the state financed with banks and state advertising all the media? When the whole private economy lived with the civil servants' leftovers? When the civil servants were the number one consumer in the country and moved the market? Is that the free market for you? Take loans, appoint and eat them for retail consumption? Unfortunately, we have made the tavern, the drink and the coffee. Not because we decided strategically to do this, but because, in fact, there was a need for government officials to eat their money somewhere, who were abundantly appointed with heavy wages, and now that the private economy has dropped a little bit. This poor and barbaric economic model you were following. And I'm not just addressing SYRIZA. I am also addressing the New Democracy and PASOK, which have absolutely no difference. People's parties with a so-called liberal face. Up to five - six years ago, you paid an average of four and five grand a month. So, with what nerve do you abandon the free market that it is unable to regulate itself? Free market we have never lived in Greece. How do you judge something that the Greek citizen has never experienced? For example, in this bill you are talking about the necessary transparency in banking advertising. Banking advertising has in the past been a useful tool for the state to finance private interests for various reasons. We are talking about a political crime which has spread to all governments in recent decades. We are occasionally witnessing media entrepreneurs and contractors, who, in addition to bank advertising expenditure, were receiving high-risk loans. I say it elegantly, so I don't call it sea-loving. And as a supplement, they were taking over and advertising packages from the banking institutions. Even media of low influence received high amounts, supposedly to advertise the first or second bank. Why did all this happen? Because they had some political acquaintance. This transaction was an important aspect of the interlocutory, which exists, even nowadays. As long as there are willing politicians who have been elected by rousfetti rather than by their moral integrity, there will always be a 'blue' in such drunkencies. One side of the coin has the rushphetti, the other side has the misase and the complexion. Therefore, in the context of the European Union's requirements for the collection of banks, we are pleased that you are forced to adopt such legislative interventions. We know you're being forced. You also admit that you are willing to apply the external rules imposed on us. Now, however, you will be forced, as we have always proposed, to accept transparency in the distribution of the banks' advertising budget. I would like to refer to your amendment to the EPP. I must admit that due to my absence abroad, in the previous years, I did not know until the pretext that the Occupied Territories was an Occupied Territories. In other words, even horses, gambling is considered a public utility. Honestly, in my eyes it looks like a joke. Even in the gambling sector we found the opportunity for rosés and a client state and above the agency's managers loaded some hundreds of millions of euros, over the last decade, especially during the Olympic Games. These loans have not been able to repay them. And today, with an amendment you have tabled since last week, you are asking us to sign it in our public debt. To state the loans of the Hippodrome, which reach 208,3 million euros. Here we are, Mr Tsipras, where the state management of the economy has reached us and not the free market. Public bodies are indebted and taxpayers are invited to pay the marble. And you're blaming on top.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u49	Did we go bankrupt?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u50	I've never interrupted you. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u51	I say, did we go bankrupt?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u52	Why are you interrupting me right now? Have I ever interrupted you? The next time I'm in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I'm going to interrupt you all the time. That's a promise!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u53	I asked. I have not interrupted you, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u54	I repeat that you also blame the private sector and the market for lack of competence. Who? You yourself have never brought her to our country. We, the Centro Association, are in favour of transparency and the fight against interlocutory. That is why we want the same draft law that we are signing today for the banks to apply to all the companies and organisations in which the state is involved. We have witnessed scandalous advertising money and through PPC, and through PPC in the past, as if someone would be convinced of some advertising if they needed water or electricity in their home. It's so crystallized that public money is dispersed in these cases where no captives are needed. All this cherish of the past few years must not leave unharmed, at least for those who have remained even a little common sense. The spread of public money must be stopped. We should have understood that on our own in time, not surfing at the last minute under the threats of our partners and creditors. As far as all the amendments you have brought today are concerned, we shall look into them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u55	I shall now give the floor to the two registered speakers and then the parliamentary representatives will begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u56	Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u57	What do you want, Mr. Kutsuko?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u58	In my speech, as spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, I raised the issue of late amendments. Unfortunately, at the time I was speaking, it had not been understood - now we were distributed - that at 11:45, that is, half an hour ago, two amendments were tabled, which the previous ministers did not talk about, and which are particularly problematic. We shall be in a second place, if you give us the opportunity, as the President has said, because we have not talked about them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u59	Yeah, I'll give you the floor for one, two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u60	Wouldn't someone tell us anything about them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u61	Yeah, that's something we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u62	Not to see it. This is a matter of parliamentary order, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u63	What am I supposed to do? I'll give the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u64	The House cannot vote without saying about the amendments!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u65	The ministers are here and they'll take the floor. Don't be late to finish. Come on, Mr. Theonas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u66	We want to talk, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u67	The two speakers should be given the floor and then the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u68	And then the Parliamentary Representatives! I have asked for the floor first, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u69	Mr Dannelis has also asked for the floor from the river, because he has an unsuccessful obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u70	Madam President, I have asked for the floor first because I have an obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u71	All right, Mr. Dannelly, you'll talk second. So don't waste time. Here, Mr. Theonas, you have the floor for seven minutes. Then Mr. Iliopoulou will speak. So let's go quickly for those who are in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start with two comments. I will not deal with Mr Theocharis very much. I will only make one comment. I expected that his sensitivity would lead him today to apologise for his atom by speaking to the Committee on Finance, when he considered that he was not yet convinced that the Greek Government would support the positions of Cyprus or Turkey at the summit. I described that as a provocation. And they were sheepcats! The second thing I want to say to Mr Theocharis is that he will have to put a brake on the'small' political speech that he expresses in Parliament, using a language which is not used - I do not want to touch on the ports - nor on the ports! This is abusive and irresponsible language for a political reason. And because they were following his speech and high school students, let them know what university taught the quality of this political speech, do they also go to this university to study this huge political speech that he expresses, boiling and undermining every position, every democratic expression in this Parliament? I believe that this political reason is unacceptable to our Parliament. As far as the rapporteur of the Central Association is concerned, I will make just one comment, which I had made to another member of the same party, when he spoke to the Committee on Economic Affairs: if they want to study a little after 1944-1945, at the end of the Second World War. Throughout the world and not only in Greece, throughout Europe, but also in America, all the businesses created to promote electricity, telecommunications, postal, rail and transport, water, all of them took the form of a public body and a public company. Was that a coincidence? Has the private sector been able to play the role played by the public sector by highlighting all these sectors at a very high, high level of service provision to the people of the countries in which these businesses were organised? As far as the bill is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, as the report says, this is aimed primarily at increasing transparency in the decisions made by the administrations of credit institutions for all kinds of grants and payments for commercial advertising purposes. That, in my opinion, is positive. There must be a direction like this. But, at the same time, in my opinion, the draft law over-reinforces the powers of the Securities and Markets Committee. And I want to remind you - because I can never forget it, although I was not always an observer at developments on the Stock Exchange, but this had not escaped me - that during the years when the Stock Exchange in Greece was on the rise the Capital Market Commission gave permission to companies who wanted to make investment funds on the Stock Exchange, provided, however, that they would propose that this increase in equity should lead to specific investment sectors. However, the Securities Committee never checked at that time whether these increases in share capital, which reached billions of drachmas, were guided by the objectives set as a prerequisite for approving the increase in equity in the stock exchange. No such control has ever been carried out, and from what we have read in newspapers at the time, a company and even a media company, which has increased its share capital to promote investment and sectors that, like publishers, printers and others, were interested in doing no such investment, but has bought hotels in Miami. I'm not saying names, because I don't care about names, but the essence. I therefore believe that today we should also be concerned about the fact that we are in the front of overcoming the powers of the Securities and Market Committee. I therefore raise the question that there should be a procedure for the monitoring of the Securities Committee if it respects the checks it has to carry out in the application of the powers with which it is currently equipped. I think that these procedures should be promoted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Madam President. I want to close with this authority of the Securities and Exchange Committee and express my concern. All these responsibilities, which can often also be diverted to the service of other objectives rather than those officially recognised, must be provided for. There must be a procedure for controlling these powers. And I think that superpowers should also have a form of control to make it more certain that other objectives may be prevented. For example, when the Securities Committee now has power to fines of up to EUR 2 million to the legal person - if it is a legal person, the body to which it places the fine - and, at the same time, autonomous fines to the members of the management board, to the directors, to the auditors, to the accountants and is not in agreement, it may have other objectives somewhere. Thank you very much, Madam President, for the margin you have given me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u73	It was a steep margin.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, Mr Chakalotos, has asked for the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u75	I would like the floor, Madam President. He was reporting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u76	I'll talk to you. You've gathered a lot personally. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor. Will you talk about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u77	For the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an amendment to the technical support that the government needs in experts. Before that, however, I would say that today is a bad day for the European Union and the Eurozone with the events in Belgium. We are sending our support, our solidarity with this people. I'll try to give the Minister of Finance our support. Can I get an update on the negotiations? I don't know if I can, because I didn't ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u78	You should do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u79	I can talk to you about this for two, three minutes. You will all read what the press release of the four institutions says, that the negotiation has gone very well to the two main issues: the reform of income tax and insurance. Institutions will return a specific day, April 2nd, which is Saturday. I imagine at my level that discussions will begin on Monday, April 4th. The aim is for the first phase of these negotiations to be completed by 12 April. Then we begin discussions in Washington - it is the IMF's spring meeting - with the aim of having a final agreement on the whole package, that is to say, the government's obligations coming out of the summer agreement and debt. That's the target. I think there are many players who have different opinions, but there are too many players who want to find a solution. And I think it will be possible to find a solution by 22 April. That's all for the negotiation. I will not go into the details of what we say about taxation and what we say about insurance. Just give people a warning that what I read in the eight and nine at night is far away from what we're talking about. I'm surprised what I've read and what I've seen. I don't know which meetings they're talking about and what discussions they're talking about. Well, not the ones where I have some involvement. To connect the information on the negotiation with this amendment now, I must tell you that if the image you have is a multitude of consultants that help us, you are wrong. Not only do we have a multitude of advisors, but we are in a situation that the other side often has, the IMF that has huge experience in such negotiations, as you can see, but other institutions too, are armed with too much technology aid. By saying this, I do not want to underestimate the contribution of the officials to this negotiation at all. There are lawyers and economists and others in my ministry and other ministries that have given their best. They've worked for an unlimited period of hours without any grumbling by twelve, by one, by two. I would like to thank those children who have given themselves the best to contribute to this negotiation really beyond what a Minister of Finance might ask for. However, given these facts, there is also specific knowledge of the negotiation, in the past, of the recapitalisation of the banks, now of the debt that we cannot have from the officials, nor from consultants with the most political time each minister has. That is why contracts need to be concluded with some experts with transparency, as the President of the KYSOP, Mr Drasakis, will explain and analyse it in a little while that more specialized knowledge, too, is needed. For the other things that are being heard, for details, why did we take this counsellor and not the other one, and how this was paid, I commit on Monday that there are timely questions to answer the most specific level. At the most abstract level, I think we have an amendment here that we will be able to assign specific projects to specific people or organisations when needed, because it needs this very often and quickly. I think you'll know who you were before - and I'm looking at certain people - that there were very large contracts both for the PSI and for the privatisations for the TIAD. We are simply continuing this with much more limited expenditure and much more transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u80	I will also give Mr Drasakis the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u81	Madam President, I have had the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Eliopoule, all the ministers have asked for the floor. I can't override it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u83	Yeah, but they talked for the second time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u84	They are asking for the floor on the amendments. What do I do, Mr. Brutsi? If Mr Koutsoukos asked, he also considered it unacceptable not to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u85	Madam President, why should Mr Drasakis take the floor? He spoke a while ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u86	For the article, not for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u87	Until then what did he get through? He couldn't say it then? Does Mr. Drasakis now legislate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u88	He wanted to talk about the bill. Now he will talk about the amendments. Let's not waste time. We all benefit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u89	I'm not talking about time, I'm talking about procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u90	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Theochari, you will speak. Wait. Here, Mr. Drasakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u92	The amendment had not been tabled before. Two words, I'll just say, just for information. As the Minister said, this amendment provides for the following: the Governing Council for Economic Policy could, until now, approve fixed-term contracts with a right of renewal of up to three months. We have seen that there are projects that take longer and that these renewals are not being carried out, which at one time hide other issues, we felt it most appropriate that Parliament should approve in semester. Of course, some time in the six months can be seen, but at least they are closer to the real needs. The second is that until now KYSPOPO provided only the needs of the Ministry of Finance. Because the Minister of Finance is responsible for the negotiation, perhaps from incomplete preparation at that time, he said in the operation of the KYSOP that only the Vice-President and the Minister of Finance can sign such contracts. We have seen that other ministries can negotiate issues like the Ministry of Energy now with IPTO. Needs arise, so the shape now is that the Vice-President, the Finance Minister, who pays because he is president, has no budget - and the Minister responsible for the matter, sign. What was previously happening on these matters? Because there are external knowledge needs in matters that are specific or single, such as the recapitalisation of banks, which is not followed up to say that we will have a public service for the recapitalisations. So when you have a recapitalisation, you need to get a consultant to help you. Of course, for the negotiation, perhaps a more permanent structure could have been anticipated, because we will always have issues. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government is ringing.]] I'll be done. In any case, what has happened before is that such needs were usually covered, for the sake of flexibility, by supervisory bodies. When the Minister wanted something, he passed it through the D.C.D., T.D. and elsewhere. And this work we now want to do could be financed by an agency. We prefer it to be in transparent terms through the KYSOP, because it is auditing. Anyone who wants to be a MP can ask a question and get the evidence. So the regulation is simple, it covers a specific need and it has two elements: the process is more transparent than the past and it is more economic. In order not to waste time - if necessary, there are elements - I will simply give one element of the expenditure for advisers and support for the CFSF, which handles recapitalisation issues, PSI and others. In 2003 8.4 million was spent, in 2014 14.4 million, in 2015, which we had the well-known recapitalisation of 1 million. The proposal we are making is therefore aimed at having more transparent and more financial management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u93	Now, Mr. Theochari, wait. Mr Helios will be speaking for seven minutes, and once the circle of Parliamentary representatives begins, I will give you the floor for personal reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u94	Madam President, we are learning from the websites and we are getting a message from the cell phone that this evening's debate will be postponed at the level of party leaders on a very big subject, that of interactive and justice, for which we too have a lot to say, whenever this debate takes place, because we have fallen victim to this 'independent' - within thousands of introductory - justice in Greece. So I would like you to let us know and not learn from various news sites, if indeed the Prime Minister of the country - the one who represents the Prime Minister of the country - spoke to the one who represents the Chief of Officer Response and to each other, as good friends, because they have absolutely nothing to break up, to transfer this afternoon's debate to another day. And why is that from what we're learning? I'll do a parentheses here. We are in Parliament and I am being asked by various friends who find me 'What is going on in Parliament?' And I answer them: 'Nothing at all'. In fact, I will not speak at all today about this bill, because after many months, I have even been able to speak at all these seven minutes that the Greek Parliament gives me and to say my views, because all the bills are being brought in the form of urgency. The rapporteurs and parliamentarians are speaking, and finally, they are express procedures, such as those you have, of course, been denounced for so many years when the rest of them ruled. So will Mr Tsipras be holding a meeting on the security measures to be taken - I do not know what else - with Mr Kammenos - and I do not know who else - Mr Toska, as we read, to discuss what? Who's more dangerous than the other? Who's more useless than the other one? Who will bring more illegal immigrants? What if we serve them better? What will Mr. Kammenos say to Mr. Tsipras? Will he give him the credentials that he's doing a good service and that he's cooking well? Because he must have heard it that all illegal immigrants feed on what the Greek army cooks them. So what can Mr. Kammenos say? What if there is more pepper or salt in the gihanker's food that went and blew up in Brussels? I read some messages of sympathy you send out as government - you are both unexplained and embarrassed at all - to the Belgian Government. You send messages to Europe that you are devastated. You shouldn't send such messages. You should apologize to them for all this harm you have caused, which you have left the border unguarded, holes - as the Greek people say - to get these jihadists in, shaved, and keep a baby in your hands to mock you and then go to airports and subways and blow up. And you think we're going to be sad and nothing is going to happen in our home, in our country, but you're laughing. Because these people who belong to this religion hate everything Christian, they hate everything European. It is never going to happen, however much you want, with any perverted idea of all of you in SYRIZA and in co-government, that these people are integrated into a European, in a western way of life. You may see that these bombers have already grown up in Brussels, but that does not prevent them from doing anything. When the time comes when their instructor tells them to blow up, they will kill all the world, those who are toward them, against their religion. He is also there in the European Union, a Culloglou, a state-runer a life, who has been dating and swearing the Golden Dawn as racists, as I do not know what other vulgar expression this man is using, and today he may have been there in Brussels. If he was injured, or if one of his own was hit or himself, what would that man say? Would he say that all these millions were doing well in Europe through Greece? And I have the pleasure and honour to have the President-in-Office behind me, the symbol of the indiscriminate illegal immigrants. Illegal immigrants from all over the world were united to accept your challenge, when you were responsible for this and to come to our country. Because you said they were melting and we're losing them. Of course, when someone wants to go to illegality and listens to the Minister saying that illegal immigrants are being melted and lost in the country, they too will prefer us and their families. You were very consistent in your programme. Because all these years SYRIZA said they'd call their families. Don't be alone here with the jihadists, have their families together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u95	Jihadists are all coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u96	A lot of them are jihadists. Yeah. Did you mind? Well done. If you want SYRIZA, not personally, we have told you many times that you can...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Heliopoulou, you won't have a dialogue. Continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u98	No, we won't have any dialogue. I have no appetite with you who have the idea of having any dialogue at all. I will just repeat our position too many times, that you can take them home, do not load them all over the territory, do not load them all over Greece. It is not the 100 inhabitants of Idomen to suffer the torture you have allowed them to suffer. As in all of Greece, it is no coincidence that apart from some bits of dogs and some so-called humanists who go and feed them, all the other Greeks with the sound of a rumour that they will come to their side of the illegal immigrants and show their opposition in every way. Of course you don't care what the Greek people say. You're interested in the illegal immigrants having fun and having all the cabotage. That's what you're interested in. That you go next door to miserable Greeks - who have made them hungry - and other problems, not even cross your mind. Golden Dawn has clear positions on this matter. Clearly she does not accept any hot spots anywhere in Greece. Clearly, we are tabling a proposal for a law to expel all illegal immigrants and return to their countries of origin. No Greeks want them. We did not receive our country with either rot, with Muslims, with jihadists, or with all these people who are against the Greek ideal. It's against anything European, western, Greek. We, of course, as a Greek people, have invented the Trojan Horse. And through this discovery some people are trying with a very organized plan, with a Trojan Horse, to fill Greece and Europe Islamics, to Islamize, to muslimize our places. They're not refugees, don't be fooled, and don't try to take us as refugees, like refugees, who give them 20 euros to take a picture of no child. Part of them are jihadists. The others come from countries that have no war. We did not ask them to come to our place, we will not accept them, they do not want them to integrate into our way of life, so neither do we. We say no to the occupation of Greece by foreigners, not to the Islamization of our country, not to the settlement. In closing, then, I will say that Golden Dawn is the last line of defense in all these plans against our country, but also the first line of attack, to regain our homeland. Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Eliopoule, to you and to many others who give me these supernatural qualities to move my hand and the refugees, immigrants and all the desperate people on earth come here, thank you, because I seem to be a superhero.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u100	Madam President, open the microphone for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u101	Anyway. In any case, I will not open a dialogue with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u102	You're president, open my mic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u103	Keep going. We are having a debate here on a bill and you want to tell us what we know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u104	Good. Madam President, you are commenting on a Member's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u105	You have a site to talk about. Leave the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u106	No, you have commented on my speech, Madam President. Open the microphone to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u107	Here you go, Mr. Theocharis, continue, I'll give you three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u108	Madam President, you have commented on my speech. Open the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u109	Come on, it's over now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u110	But you have commented on my speech, Madam President. Open the mic!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u111	I'm commenting on myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u112	No, you commented on my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u113	Because you've been to me, okay? It's over now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u114	You have no supernatural potential.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u115	Then what do I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u116	You are useless too, as are all the government!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u117	Yeah, I can do it. One person managed everything, to overthrow the geopolitical balance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u118	Madam President, open up my microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u119	Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Theonas cannot withstand the political criticism - it is a pretext - and the rest of the SYRIZA cannot withstand political criticism. We were told by Mr Vernardakis a few weeks ago that the media were autonomous and that is not good. It is obvious that the opposition is also autonomous and this does not like SYRIZA - ANEL. I also got criticized because I talked about corruption. Indeed, I am not a judge and perhaps Mr Alexiadis, who is not a politician, does not want to see the difference, but there is a difference between judges and politicians. So I judge you politically. I tell you, for example, as Mr Theonas originally said, that you must support Cyprus and you must go before the summit with declared support for Cyprus. It is good that you did so at the summit and I welcome it, but you should have done so beforehand, as I requested. In any case, even at the last moment, you supported it. Now, as far as corruption is concerned, I have already told you that the amendments on the General Accounting Office favour specific relations between auditors and audited persons. You must not favour them. So, politically, you're favouring corruption. I'm telling you, you've forgotten you'll catch the fuel smuggling 1.5 billion. Where is your political will to catch them? This is what Mr Mardas said in the programme statements last January. Where's your will? I'm telling you, you forgot about 2.5 billion dollars from Nicoludi's list. Where's your will? You said in the programme statements about 800 million from the smuggling of fuel. You didn't bring anything. Yesterday, Mr. Juliarakis gave evidence to the House. From the special account of corruption, in 2015 we received 4 million, while in 2014 we received 27 million. So this is your proclaimed will, which does not bring any effect. So you don't want to find solutions. I would like to say a few words, so that I do not take the time after dentistry, on the amendments and conclude them. I won't have to take a second one after that. Mr Chakalotos also spoke a little about the negotiation and told us that there are many players who want the solutions. That's good. It has been telling us this for two months and we still don't see the assessment, we still don't see light. I wish it were as it says, but I'm not even sure if the solution you offer on this table is a solution that the government itself wants to bring. Finally, you are making a legislative improvement and you are changing the amendment, Article 6. Why don't you change what we asked you to do for the ECHO? Because now that you have lost control of the banks, now that you cannot control the four systemic banks that have left in the hands of the SSM, you are now bringing an amendment to their advertising expenditure. And the parallel programme we were told by Mr Drasakis, the parallel banking system, when you are losing control of the Attica bank, which is controlled by the SSM for the projects and the days of administrations, so now you are bringing this to us. However, for the TECs that you control state money, which is the corruption of state money, there seems to be no change. You lose the opportunity and prove in practice that you favour corruption and want it. I would ask you politically all the time that you are politically favoring corruption. Finally, for the information on Mr Kim in the amendment you are bringing us: I have repeatedly asked for the information. You're talking about transparency. You're talking about cutting costs. You've brought fugitives of the international jet set. From where you said you would abolish the retired, you are also bringing us international retireds. Is Mr. Kim being paid or not at EUR 125,000 a month? Get the evidence here. We must not be brought by Mr Drasakis to the attention of the CFS, which CFS is not mentioned in the amendment. And a hospital may have reduced its costs, is it related to this amendment? Bring us the evidence for the Treasury, if it's reduced spending on these people and tell us how much these expenses are. You do not serve transparency. You keep serving corruption! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-one students and two educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Archangelos Rhodes. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It has also been noted that the debate on the afternoon is adjourned. The Conference of Presidents will meet at 15: 00 to see if it will be postponed for what day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u122	So you said we didn't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u123	It's a request from the Prime Minister. The Conference of Presidents will discuss this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u124	Is it deferred or not deferred?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u125	It has not been postponed because it does not decide on its own. The Conference of Presidents will be convened. It calls for the bombings and the tension that will be caused in the debate, the possibility of a few days' postponement. He's contacted the Chief of Officer's Responsibility. The rest isn't my responsibility to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u126	I have the impression that the Conference of Presidents will set the date. The postponement has been requested and made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u127	"Possibility of postponing" says the request. I'm giving you accurately what the request says. Mr Brutsi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the New Democracy we express our grief and sympathy to the people of Belgium and condemn in the most emphatic way these unacceptable acts of terrorism and the blood of innocent citizens who this morning terrorists in the heart of Europe have been beaten. The fact is that these events, after the events of Paris, will affect Europe. Unfortunately, they will also affect our country. They will inevitably affect the policy of immigration and refugee. And I predict they will be negatively affected. They will be negatively affected, because today - unfortunately - a year and a half late, the government seems helpless and incompetent and confirms how wrong policy has been pursued so far. I appreciate that you are not wronged by Mrs Christodoulopoulos with the reproach that has been made from time to time in her face about the famous'swamped'. It's not Mrs. Christodoulopoulos' fault. It was the government's overall policy of SYRIZA and ANEL that created this great problem in our country, which today led our country to be isolated, with closed borders and to be Europe's laughter and typing. That's what you've done, gentlemen of SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u129	What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u130	We did what we could do. We proved it. In the previous government, we had prevented the flow of hundreds of thousands of immigrants. And if some people today invoke Pharmaconesi, I'm just saying that the SYRIZA government has brought Pharmaconese with the hundreds drowned in the Aegean with its policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u131	How did he do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u132	And your policy, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, was specific. You did specific things. Not you - I repeat - SYRIZA. You closed the Amygdaleza, you sent a message to the world community that Greece can easily welcome everyone and the message was received. Turkey took advantage of it and hundreds of thousands of immigrants and refugees from everywhere followed the course of your message. Today, a year and a half later, you are changing politics and the one you have closed, which you have complained about, is multiplying by a hundred. That's who you are! Unfortunately, however, your mistakes are paid by the Greek people. He pays them experientially, pays them financially. Because what is happening today in Greece, someone will pay for it. The Greeks, the Greek worker, the Greek unemployed, will pay for it. They pay SYRIZA and ANEL policies. Let us not forget the ANELs, because at the moment they are in our country, ladies and gentlemen, the image of Mr Kammenos, the Minister of Government, is on the Internet saying that he will fill Europe with jihadists. We're hiding behind our finger? Isn't that what the Minister of Government said? And what is the impact on the Minister on the Prime Minister's behalf today that some moves had to be made? Nothing. You just coexist for the chair. Unfortunately, the Marxist dream has turned into a nightmare for the Greeks from your politics. I heard Mr Tsakalotou's reassurances for the negotiation. I wish it was as it says. However, it must not be forgotten that none of the things that are happening today - the anguish and the imminent reductions in pensions, wages and tax increases - would happen if this ideology of SYRIZA, dismantled populism and demagogy and the need to take over power and chair in January 2015. That's what you did, Minister. You have said incredible lies, you have deceived the Greek people, you have spoken about increases, about a shading memorandum, about a brave negotiation. You deceived the Greek people and look where you brought him: you made the first reductions in 2015, you reduced the pensions 2% horizontal, the AS 6%. You are the first government to reduce the lowest pension, the 486 euros, and you reached 120 euros a month. You have increased taxes on the Aegean islands, such as in Rhodes - and the twenty-one children from Rhodes who were watching us were here - and you have changed the standard of living, one of which Greece has won since 1980 and then across from our entrance to the EEC at the time. It was a sovereign right that we lost it. And by June 2016 all Aegean islands will lose this privilege. You have increased taxes on farmers, on the primary sector. Now comes the second wave of the inappropriate third memorandum of SYRIZA - that is what the Greek people are paying today - in which, unfortunately, despite Mr Tsakalotou's calm way of doing all right, there is a change in duty. Ministers and MPs are now telling you that wealth is determined at EUR 1,000 per month, so let's tax from there on top. That's your policy. ‘taxes, taxes, taxes’ are SYRIZA's policy. How do we do it? There are therefore reductions in pensions and it is totally hypocritical. Mr Katrugalos's plan, which says that pensions will not be reduced, in addition to the reductions I mentioned before, provides for a reduction of 15% to 30% - his plan, which he presented - to the new pensioners. It provides for a reduction in supplementary pensions and a change in the level of insurance, which, in my opinion, is a ruthless copy of our own policy that we were prepared to implement in January 2015 and which was a weighted policy on insurance, a law that I inherited from my predecessors. I respected it, supported it, streamlined it, and it was ready to be implemented. And you took it, you abused it, you changed the replacement rates, so that, together with the third, unnecessarily memorial to SYRIZA, policies on insurance will actually reduce the pensions of all Greeks indiscriminately. And along with all of this, I hear the President saying that it is possible to cancel the debate today on the issue of the Prime Minister's interlocutory because of the facts. But the government's temptation on a daily basis is incomprehensible and inconceivable. It feeds the media and the political system every day either by means of statements or by actions that they cause, Minister. And such action is the amendment that you tabled today. And why are you asking for Parliament's approval? So, let the Greek people know that SYRIZA tabled an amendment calling for the possibility, through the approval of Greek MPs, of directly entrusting unspecified persons with unspecified sums to do what? To have support for the negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u133	Didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u134	You are incapable - and if that is not the definition of inability, what is it? - manage things for which the Greek people have chosen you. So quit! The Greek people did not choose you to hire officials to pay them to do your own job. We didn't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u135	You didn't do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u136	There was no such policy on the part of the previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u137	Eight million, the Vice President told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u138	And the evidence that the Vice-President has just quoted is irrelevant to each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u139	Irrelevant?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u140	It's completely different. So you're asking for a white authorisation? And what work do they produce? And who are they? And you're asking for a direct assignment? Isn't that the definition of incompetence and opacity? And if it is not courageous, would you come here to legalise the Greek Parliament's opacity and inability, what is it, gentlemen of SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u141	You've got a lot of nerve!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u142	How do you SYRIZA Members tolerate this? And now I'm not making a comparison with the past about what you were saying about the task force - which was not already paid - which you abolished the next day. Task Force wasn't paid. It was assistance to the Greek government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u143	It was Gaulier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u144	And today you come with courage and ask for direct assignments to support the work of yours? And what are the ministries' employees doing? You underestimate them, as you underestimated them in the Ministry of Labour, which they denounced and said that Mr. Katrugalos is mocking and that the bill that he presents as Greek was not written in the Ministry of Labour. And who wrote it? Now he's confirmed. Did the Greek people and the Greek taxpayer have paid for Mr. Katrugalos' bill there too? They're connected, Mr. Alexiadis. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the Government's complete failure at all levels is confirmed. At the most critical moment for Greece and the Greek people, SYRIZA, along with the ANELs, who led our ship to the unknown and unforeseen problems that now bring us. Too bad, because, beyond the political cost of SYRIZA and the government - it seems every day from the polls that you are divorced from Greek society - the political price collected by SYRIZA is unfortunately also collected by the Greek people. We pay the ideology, the demagogy of a party, which took power by lying and deceiving the Greek people system, which continues to do so far. I have a feeling it's time for you to pick it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living a clear day for Europe and the whole world. Europe is facing an extremely complex and difficult dilemma, a challenge and a cheque: to ensure to European citizens and its visitors the good of security, but at the same time not to lose anything from the code of values that make Europe different from the world as a whole, that is to say, the conquests for human and civil rights. That is why it is necessary as much as ever for coolness and wisdom to avoid all that we may suffer as a united Europe and as a world as a whole. I would also like to say, on behalf of my party, my grief and condolences to the relatives of the innocent victims, because this kind of blind hits so far have never been on the European continent, at least during the era of the United Europe, at the time of a project of overcoming everything that has led us to the misery of the world wars. Ladies and gentlemen, writes Japanese writer Haruki Murakami: "Unfortunately, the clock works, the hours pass, the past grows, the future retreats, the possibilities fall, the guilt accumulates." Or not? None of the things that's going on around us prove that you're becoming, that we're becoming more wiser than the mistakes. To take a major area of public life and democracy, where is the demand for more justice and transparency, which are the demands of society, of a long-standing problematic past? Unless, of course, you mean, all this time and today, that stranding is something that only characterizes others. The attitude of both the Deputy Minister of Justice, unfortunately, and the Prime Minister, who continues to support him in the Tsatani case, is not just more justice and transparency. Let's be honest. Governments in post-government Greece have always tried to control judicial authority. No government has ever revived its independence without discounts, without asterisks. However, in democracy the powers are not only divided, but must also be mutually controllable. One must monitor the other so that there are no diversions. These are conquests of distant Enlightenment. But the frustration you have in distinguishing powers, the cornerstone of democracy, is unprecedented, because it is based on idealism and, therefore, it becomes much more dangerous. Unfortunately, it is also numerous, since the Ministerial Council unanimously and collectively appointed the trade unionist, who alone should consider it outside the table of candidates, Mr Thanos as President of the Ice Bay and then instituted unprecedented powers for her, giving her the possibility of disciplinary control over all the judges. What, in fact, did you do with that? You extended the control of executive power over judges throughout the entire hierarchy. This ensures that the demand for more justice and transparency is guaranteed, while on the other hand Mrs Thanos herself forgets to raise the alarm about the tragic slow administration of justice in our country, so that we end up in the reproach of the release of Roupakia, a professed killer, who was also given orders from a party in this House, as the party itself accepted by taking political responsibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u147	What did you say now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u148	You took the political responsibility. Your chief took political responsibility. You forget it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u149	What do you think, man? We'll humiliate you! To withdraw, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u150	Your chief took political responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u151	You lying man, what did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u152	Don't interrupt now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u153	What did he say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u154	You lure me and I'm opening a dialogue with you. It's a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u155	What you're saying now, what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u156	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u157	To withdraw what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u158	It's not your fault you're in here. That's your only refreshing, that it's not your fault you're in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u159	What you said now is what? Whatever goes down to your mind!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u160	So the irrationality doesn't stop here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u161	You don't keep talking like this. You'll call back what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u162	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u163	That the party gave orders, what are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u164	Did you take political responsibility, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u165	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u166	What political responsibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u167	Nobody took over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u168	Your Chief, check it out, then! We're done! You took political responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u169	Madam President, that cannot be said!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Rabbit, this is a parliament. Everyone expresses their views.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u171	Madam President, that cannot be said. I'm asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u172	When you take the floor, you can say what you want. Now you can't. The speaker will finish and then you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u173	So I began to say that in a totally surreal way we find that we are returning twenty-five years ago when in the absolute refusal to communicate with reality we saw that we lived in a different world than the rest of the world was aware of living. And today, when we are re-creating those conditions of our total isolation, we find with horror that what had then been demanded and set up, a network of logic - and today it is perhaps much more needed - such as that network of logic set up by the unforgettable Leonidas Kyrikos, which many of us in here, then supported, by saying self-evidently about the famous "Macedonian" that Greek Macedonia is Greek. It was very simple and still very simple. All the rest, they self-determination and self-determination for twenty-five years, isolating us from everywhere. Today, then, where we are in a low barometric, which is getting further down, we are still in a devastating hypocritical ostrichism to live a reality as we want to live. But in our houses we are pondered. What more effective than the "Macedonian rehearsal" from the Navy band in America, when Mr. Kammenos would testify his wreath? Is it possible for such events of nationalist kits to be able to change international data for two decades? It is also disastrous that the Chief of Officerial Opposition and possibly the Prime Minister tomorrow, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, should appear in the year 2016, far behind Constantine Mitsotakis in 1990 - I am referring to "Macedonian" - when, dear and dear colleagues, the balances become paralytic, cancel the message and actually cancel the message and modernise the reforms and so we cannot pass. Do not anyone tell me that the deletion of Kranidiotis balances things, because I still ask myself about the Cranidian statements because the prosecutor has not yet reacted to a direct challenge of passions, division, hatred and violence of the incomprehensible Mr "Net 21", which threatens all of us ethnic traitors. This is a madness, left and right. How can a third party understand us? That is why the international press writes vehemently that the Minister in Greece is being expelled because he called Macedonia "Macedonia". We live the day of the marmot. I am making a brief reference, a brief description of our micro-environment, which is particularly true today in what is happening throughout the world - so it is absolutely of concern to us - it shows how much we are conscious of the reality we live in. Perhaps we should work on the fact that the altruism that now characterises neighboring democracy, without a name, is mainly due to our rigid and silky attitude in these years. The whole modern generation of politicians who, as you have seen, have grown up in these years, in the past twenty-five years, have the feeling that Greece is due to the total exclusion of their country in such a neighbourhood, such as the one we live in. Respecting the analogy is, as is the harsh attitude of the old Netanyahu who wiped out the moderate Palestinian parties for the benefit of the extreme Fama a few years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, the big issue, of course, which we have to dominate and which the country must deal with is no more than refugee - immigration and we all know it. We must also all recognise that this is a multi-level issue which, by its very nature, does not raise any populism or opposition krone. It is easy for each of us to criticise the government for the disastrous and alleged humanitarian call of the whole world's devastated people to a Greece that we thought, naively, even yesterday that it is a Transit country. But we must speak as genuine Europeans and Europe's own responsibilities, of its inadequate and incompetent, both estimates and measures and actions. The same applies to the participation of the European Union in the early phases of the destabilisation of the Arab world through support for the Arab Spring which opened the coast of Halos. Today, Europe - and we together - pays for a perception that has led to a'street fire'. They say, ladies and gentlemen, art has to give solutions to reality. The solution was heard by Russian director Anatoli Vasiliev's epilogue in his message for World Theatre Day yesterday, March 21st. So he wonders: 'We need the theatre?' And he responds: "We need all kinds of theatre. Only one kind of theater sure no one needs to. And I am talking about the theatre of political games, a theatre of political rat traps, a theatre played by politicians, a vain political theatre." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. I hope we are all aware, especially in the days that we are spending that the most disastrous, the most devastating, will be to continue hypocrisy, it will be to continue playing a political theatre. I do not know if it is right tonight to postpone the pre-date debate. Of course, if it is to be - as we all suspect - that it will develop into a theater of division and interclasses, it will obviously have to be postponed. However, at the moment it is not appropriate for an approach to be taken with its logic yesterday of all the issues that concern us. It would be a sign of maturity, a start of a new page in the political life of the place, if this evening we had an attempt to reach agreement on what we were bound to do, that is, what has to do with the resolution of public life and with the major issue we are dealing with today, with the management of the refugee issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after taking part in the '1974-The Rehabilitation of the Republic' educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and an educational attendant from the German School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Carras has the floor, who has an urgent job.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I should like to refer to the events in Brussels. They are acts that dissuade common sense. We condemn them and demonstrate our support and solidarity with the Belgian people and we fear that these are a start-up to unforeseen developments for Europe in general. It was also stressed by the previous speaker, Mr Dannelly, that the mistake in handling the so-called Arab Spring that led to the movement of populations, the movement of uncontrolled flows, and we are already collecting the results of this poor policy, of this superficial - I would call it - a policy for the reason that the conditions under which these peoples lived have never been weighed down and that their salts have been attempted in the form of a change in their regimes. We hope and wish that this attack, which has taken place today in Brussels in Belgium, is the last, because otherwise we are leading to the destabilisation of the democratic countries of Europe. I can say that, in view of the major immigration issue, we are also at risk of division within European countries. We cannot say or even want to think about what the consequences of this will be, because Greece is in a very difficult position at this time, because it has to deal with the refugee - immigration issue as well. There was a great debate yesterday in the House on this matter. There were no safe conclusions that the agreement between the European Union and Turkey and the update of the readmission programme of Greece - Turkey can work. We will of course see it along the way and we will again be placed on this major issue. Today, however, we are discussing a bill which, at least as far as its trunk is concerned as it was introduced into the committee, the issues - for us - have been exhausted. They are technocratically, many typologists and they will possibly be responsible for the security of trade. However, there has continued to be an inseparable, thoughtless and in many insulting way of legislating by means of time-consuming amendments, which come to Parliament on a daily basis and overthrow its planning, but also our positions on the bills that the government considers should be introduced. Article 6 refers to transparency in credit institutions. It therefore says Article 6, which was also accepted by the committee, that credit institutions should publish lists of where they provide advertising for money. Mr Drasakis came and gave another 'hazard picture' - I will call it - that they might hide money laundering or possibly some transactions covered by sponsorships or by advertising. Well, that's all right. But why would such a rock be put in the banks? Let us not forget that in Greece today the banks are private, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, in the context of competition, they may have a need for flexibility. I am not staying on this, and I am going to mention here, because I am provoking myself: it came after - in the form of a new amendment and legislative improvements - and this provision has also been criminalised. For the sum of one million, the Minister is allowed to submit fines to the banking institutions. And - as we all know - it is not just the banking institutions, it is also the subsidiaries and the other credit forms that will appear in the future. So the Minister is entitled to fine fleas. We fear that there, now, is the rock and that is why I have used this term. So a commercial behaviour is being criminalised at the moment because a million euros have a criminal dimension. We know that it is not in the context of administrative fines such as that. They are an offence of property and the European Council has found these fines to be criminal. The next thing I want to comment on is Article 9. I have said from this position, ladies and gentlemen, that I am sick of hearing about the FOD. When we first came to the House we condemned the transfer of the Hippodrome. Amendments have been tabled, gave immunity, made extra concessions. Today, therefore, the rest of the guarantee letters, i.e. the liabilities of the OIE, are transferred to the public sector. It's been transferred, I have to tell you. For it is said in the General Accounting Report that although the OIE does not belong to the general government, the money for these guarantee letters is, however, entered as debts. But, good or bad, this must not go on because at the end of what the state has tried to do on a long-standing path, the State is taking over all of it in current conditions and the public debt is being charged. In fact, I heard something from Mr Theocharis, who I would like to comment on. He said that he was right to introduce and assume as a primary debtor the Greek public debt of the OIE, so that he would not go bankrupt - he says - the Greek State, if the OIE goes bankrupt, which is in liquidation. But the Member States are not bankrupt because they are not subject to the bankruptcy code. The Member States shall stop or pay their obligations. Therefore, I do not think we can discuss that the Greek state is in danger of this arrangement. It would be a good thing if the liquidation continued. It has given guarantees to the state. The state is a debtor, well or bad. To continue the liquidation of a company which has done a great deal of damage to the Greek budget figures and if there is any balance left from the liquidation, let the State clear it up with those commitments and commitments they have made. If he doesn't stay, let him pay the state in the classic form of the guarantee. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has done. There is therefore a clear anti-constitutional amendment which we wanted to vote on - Mr Stathakis supported - on the issue of ski resorts. It says, therefore, that it also gives them indirect approval of environmental conditions for two years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u176	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u177	Don't complain. For two years - it says - they will work until environmental conditions are approved. That's what I'm reading. The applicant shall be given a period of two years from the granting of the special operating mark for presentation to the relevant competent authority of the relevant environmental approval decision. Derogation of time-limit shall remove the mark.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u178	The others are necessary. That's all she...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u179	Let go of it. Mr Gilola, you know the case law of the Council of State and you must not tell me that. It is unconstitutional in all the provisions that replace the GDP deficit. The GDP is derived from Article 24 of the Constitution. We have closed down operations - and I am speaking from personal experience - which have been relied on because they lack GDP. They've booked business. This is where I have a proposal. The proposal is one and simple: why, then, should we vote on anti-constitutional provisions in this House? They'll fall out of the competition. I heard numbers, that some operate under approved conditions, some will be based on the layout. Competition will lead to requests for cancellation and termination of operation. I tell you with experience of twenty - thirty years of experience on this special piece. So what can the government do if he wants to know? Let them, anyway, learn to operate in the government. Bring in immediately standard environmental commitments, bring in a form, give two months time limit for ski resorts to complete the form, replace the approval of environmental conditions and operate legally. There are other activities that can be done with the so-called proposals and commitments. This is where the ski resorts are, why can't they? Didn't anyone think about it at the ministry? Why don't the Ministries cooperate? Mr Statakis brings an amendment. He does not ask a question to the Ministry of the Environment: 'Can I take it or can I not take it?' It is also signed by the Minister of Tourism. Mrs. Kouduras cannot be aware of these issues. Solve practical issues, gentlemen of the government, so that the state can be relieved. Don't open wounds where they don't exist under poor legislation. Don't open any more wounds, for God's sake. I'm saying this in a good mood. I don't want to stand up. I would like to help them to work on some things, in any case, which proves to be the cause of problems. So this provision will be the operative cause, sooner or later we will lead the country's ski companies to a civil war, and I do not want to be a veteran of evil. Others will argue that they have the legal conditions and others do not, because competition will be tough in this area. Mr Alexiadis, since you represent the government here today, the government should see these issues. As I said, I am serious about this and I am aware of the problems. In order not to abuse time too much, I would like to end by saying that for us the provision is positive, that amendment, even if it comes in this form. We expect a law regulating business loans, even in this sense, no later than 3 May 2016. We do not regard the deadline as sufficient - because it has been a long time since Law No.4307/2014 has been legislated - but - in any case - to consider this as a strong suggestion to the government to do something to end these issues. Every day's delay in the economy means billions to both individuals and the state. We must be aware of this because we must no longer stand by whether we are hiring or collapsing with external experts. He's bringing another order from the Ministry, and he's talking to us about outside experts. You know what, ladies and gentlemen - and I say this with all honesty - I was scared when I saw this amendment and not because they would bring outside experts. I think they could bring in. All governments have brought in a lot of pathologies. I do not want to go into corruption issues that may be hidden, they are not present. But I was frightened by the Minister who supported her. It says: 'It is not enough for me three months that can be renewed, I want six to be able to be renewed'. Why does he tell us that? What does he admit indirectly but clearly? The inability to restore the country and the economy. Because if we still need external consultants, bodies, experts and say 'Come on, Mr six months, take another six, take another one' is a confession of weakness that the problems of the country can be tackled. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say this: the draft law on its body, which helps the issue of transparency in the financial sector, will support it. As far as the amendments are concerned, however, in relation to my position those which I have supported, we are negative, and in Article 6 we shall vote 'the present'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty two students and students and three educational sessions from the Voulia High School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] At this point, those who asked to take a lead have finished their speeches because they have had an urgent problem. Of course Mr. Brutsis didn't leave. Why did you ask to precede? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u181	As a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u182	Now we're starting the normal order. Mr Balaurras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have been watching a chord coordinated with the media and the parties that have spoken previously, with lies, lies and lies! I mean, a black propaganda that's in the known direction. You lie and you prophesy them, and in the end something will be left. Today, even today, we have noticed this: a crescendo of quarrel between the parties' rapporteurs. In fact, Mr Brutsis has arrived - whom I appreciate, but he impressed me - to link the tragic events in Belgium with the refugees and with the responsibilities of the Greek Government, that he has brought the refugees to Greece, that is, he has linked it to terrorism. And I think we all here - most of us - are against such terrorist acts and we condemn them. But it is not a conviction, Mr Brutsi, when you immediately bring into your alibi the responsibilities of a state to strike the government of that state. And I remind you that the terrorists in Paris in the only state that were registered were in Greece and partly in Serbia. They went through Austria, they went through France, I don't know, and I don't know from which other states, nobody wrote them. So here is what you are doing: black propaganda yet to an issue that is the refugee issue. When you have three thousand islands, how will you look after them? What can we do? Should we evacuate in a violent way, as Mr Varvitsiotis said, Idomeni, with MATs and with cannons, or sink the boats with which helpless people come? And you don't learn, you don't get a piece of the pie from the magnificence of the ordinary Greek who cares from his backwardness in this deep crisis, he gives it to him, he dives into the cold waters to save children and great. You are not taught by what is a teaching for all of Europe, for the whole world, I would say. And finally, let us not forget the wise proverb that says: “Whoever has sprinkled winds reaps storms.” Unfortunately, however, storms do not be reaped by those who have responsibility for the winds. The simple world reaps them, whether it's called Belgium either a French or a Greek or a Turkish. In fact, Mr. Theocharis has reached a point in this quarrel among the parties to give credentials about what is the most shocking, most slandering and the greatest lie. What did he say with just a phrase? "You are like the prosecutors of the court, you are corrupt." This phrase was said by Mr Theocharis, who is supposed to have a level - he is probably not speaking lately - and he can haunt what he says. In his denture he was provoked by the Minister and said: 'You did not do that and you did the other'. That doesn't show corruption. If we have not yet done some things we should have done - but I will explain why they have not gone as they should - it is not corruption. You'll judge us after a short period of time. Corruption would be if we covered up. Mr. Theocharis said in his denture: "You are corrupted because you have not taken steps to combat smuggling." What have we found, Mr. Theocharis, that you are directly involved with the Ministry of Finance? Did we find a physical infrastructure? Did we find many and experienced people to do the lists? You are no longer talking about the parties that have managed all of this forty-year-old course of the country and have made the Greek people begging from the mighty of Europe! Why don't you talk and say what happened to it? So what did we find? So tell me about the logistics infrastructure we found. How can we cross-check - which are the government's guidelines - the elements of tax declarations of a decade or a 15-year-old with deposits? How can we find from the Borgians list that only has codes and became "DOW!" - the word 'Dou!' Here is the case and is highlighted by capital letters and marvelous - by economic prosecutors in an office that had neither label nor name and the famous Swiss bank HSBC was hidden? So these are things that cause the anger and emotion of the Greek people. I think you're cutting your legs on your own, gentlemen of the opposition. I'd say a proverb because I like to say saying saying saying saying saying saying: "You're scratching the slut's gypsy." Unfortunately, there is not going to be a debate in the House tonight with the parties' leaders. I very soon hope that this debate will take place and that what the government has planned and that it will reveal to the Greek people so that they will become a full community of those who have happened in the past. So, is that us, where we didn't find those things I told you before? Which country was handed over to the SYRIZA government? It's a country bombed with napalm. I've told the House before. Napalm is that bomb that doesn't let grass grow for many more years. It's not just a ruined land. And don't forget - and you know that very well - that we're in an emergency. We're in a situation where anything is negotiated. I do not want to say what I said the other day on a radio and they were impressed and asked and asked again. I'm not a government member, I'm just a MP. But I want to say that I have information that even the institutions have reacted to opening some lists, such as the Lagard list. So we see the Centro spokesman say - not Mr Carras, but others - that all the bad things were done by SYRIZA. Mr. Theocharis even says that young people are leaving the hostel. Where did the young people leave? We kicked the young ones out? It is estimated that three hundred thousand people have gone to Germany, Australia and the United States yet. We kicked them out? Take the evidence, to talk to some level and evidence. Did we do it one and a half million unemployed? Pronounce us that we have not yet started, as we would have liked, the economy to begin recovery and to begin lighting up hope on the Greek people. You can say that, but not that we created them. That's why I spoke earlier about lies and slander. Remind me and say the words 'Look who's talking'? Who are involved in the 'SIEMENS' scandal? Who are involved in the Pangaia scandal, ATE, the publishers' sea loans, in the sea loans of your parties? New Democracy owes 220,000, 000, Mr. Brutsi, and 150,000, 000, I don't know how much PASOK owes. Will these be sought? Is it from the blood of the Greek people? We paid the banks for the recapitalisation? Someone's gonna give... And you, when you left the government, seeing SYRIZA come on a horse, what did you do? You have memorized the bank executives involved in these maritime loans. So this is the chord of the media and the sinful political system and we see that there is also accession to this sinful political system from Potami, if you like, from part of the Central Association. In fact, some come, like Mr. Koutsoukos, and what do they say? They say: 'Small shareholders lost their money', they simply lost their money, as if there were an earthquake in the worst, and that it was not a political issue, it is not that they decided to play with the stock exchange and become a big one - which has never been answered in Greek in financial terms - the snatching of wealth by the simple Greek, by the bio-populist, by the small businessman to foreign hands and by rich Greeks, who are here too many. They just lost their money. And finally, they find out - he says - the consultants. Drasakis, the Deputy Prime Minister, is coming out and says: "8.000.000 we paid for counsellors", that is, you, the previous government, "the previous year, in 2014. A million has been paid by the SYRIZA Government." And you're talking! And tell you more, because I was in the Bank of Greece, and I know? Previously, it had happened: I will remind you of a case with Constantine Mitsotakis, he had taken a consultant and because they did not reach the money, he was not satisfied with the money that the Prime Minister's office gave it - because he was a counsellor of the Prime Minister - the Bank of Greece was paid for, who also took it as a consultant, but where he was never hit. And we made a strike for this fact. Let me tell you more about the IMF, who pays the expenses, who was paying the Greek delegation's expenses at the IMF meetings in Washington? A bank amendment is now coming, which is very simple and which was analysed by both the ministers and, at the end, by the Vice-President of the Government. What's he saying? So he says - where is it for Mr Theocharis to hear it, who said that we are corrupt? - that banks should make public the information on the advertising costs involved. Very simple, very simple. It had to be applauded, not just to be voted on by all the Parliament's wings - and instead, the grayness, misery and lies are here - because it is something that is part of transparency and the hitting of the conflict. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. So there is a chord of terror for the Greek people to return to the old, rotten political system. We will have the opportunity in a few days, the Prime Minister will have the opportunity to speak openly again. And then let's see how many will run away to cover themselves in the shackle of their melancholy. There's gonna be a lot of things going on in the forum. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] As long as the channels hide it, the Greek people and eyes have ears and they see and hear and that's why they're waiting, he's invested a lot in SYRIZA - and he does well - and I hope and I don't think we'll let him down. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr Balaura. We proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ioannis Rabbit. Here, Mr Rabbit, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to begin by expressing the condolences of the Golden Dawn and its sadness about the terrorist blow that took place in Brussels and which had dozens of dead and many injured. Unfortunately, these things within Europe are very dangerous. We hope it doesn't happen in our homeland. We are not very optimistic about that, however. But after that it is unacceptable that a decision was taken not to hold the scheduled debate today on the question of justice, and we cannot understand why this is happening. In this respect, we were first informed by the journalists, by television and then by us. And that was before the Conference of Presidents took place. It was decided that the debate would not take place, because that is how some wanted it. How democratic is that? Let some people answer me in this Chamber. We learned that for the eyes of the world at 15: 00, after the decision had come out of 12: 30, will the Conference of Presidents be held to decide what? What has already been decided. I mean, this is where we're all fooling each other together. The Conference of Presidents will confirm that this debate is not going to take place. Why should the Conference of Presidents be held? Don't do it. That's enough of us being fooled in here. That's enough, everyone says what they want. Let us stop playing with words and basic logic! These are unacceptable things. Either, then, the decision would not have been taken, and the Conference of Presidents or the decision has actually been taken by the Prime Minister - because that is the truth - which has also made a call to the Chief of Officerial Representation, as the President has said before, and that is exactly what the whole process has been done. So, in the people's judgement, we must judge whether or not what is happening is democratic and whether they are being mocked. Let the Greek people imagine what work is being done to you, Greek fellow citizens, when, in the Greek Parliament, they are also mocking you so hard and mocking each other. Imagine how much they count on all of you afflicted Greeks out. So why can't we talk about it? Because we have heard Mrs Christodoulopoulos say earlier, which was here, that there is a fear that the Greek Parliament will become intense about what happened in Brussels. And why not create tension? Let there be words, let them be heard. Why once again, even in a bad way - but this is the reality - will the Golden Dawn be vindicated? Is it because what we've been talking about for years is verified day after day? Is there any reason why the danger is now within the walls of our country? Or perhaps because you may be afraid that by afternoon, if the debate is to take place, some may have been arrested and it may be proven that these people, the jihadists who made this attack, have probably passed from our Greek border, which protects them, supposedly not the Greek army anymore, but NATO, the Turks, all the other than the Greeks. Are we afraid of this thing, too? Because a few months ago this was happening. So, do those who make fun of you, who cross the border, supposedly afflict, who go and live with explosives and provoke innocent citizens in European countries, in the European capitals, across the Greek border and do not have to be heard? So let the conversation take place, because those who have nothing to hide are not afraid of any tension if there is one. The Golden Dawn has nothing to fear and causes the discussion to continue and be done. Why don't you talk about it not because you supposedly respect the dead who exist - you said it before - but you don't just do it so that there is no tension within the Greek Parliament. So why should there be no tension within the Greek Parliament when the debate that we were going to have was about Greek justice and about whether Greek justice is independent and would those who had control over it so far or were trying to control Greek justice to a large extent with those who have now come to cover up the previous ones who have done all this? We would talk about Greek justice and say the signs and monsters that have happened in the last few years in our homeland, and they would speak with them and cross their swords and speak of Greek justice. Justice must be independent and do its job well with its eyes open, seeing the truth in the face. However, they would be the same Members here, and the same political leaders, other than the Golden Dawn, who, when a request comes from Greek justice for the waiver of immunity of a Member from any party, are all doing so arrogantly and no one votes to go to Greek justice and see if he is innocent and acquitted. We didn't say anyone would be convicted, but she should go and be tried. So you, here, have become a laundry that covers all the illegal MPs, ministers now and formerly who have been, of course, contrary to what comes in connection with the Golden Dawn, for which we are going and which lifts our parliamentary immunity. There's probably no parliamentary immunity on the Golden Dawn, we're not talking about it. Anyone who tells us anything, because there is also an outburst on the road, there is a lifting of parliamentary immunity. So let us go and apologise for our political speeches. So to speak about this 'independent' Greek justice. Fortunately, there are some honest and proud Greek judiciaries who have the prestige of Greek justice, because, unfortunately, there are groups that have interests that all the Greek people know about. In fact, two and a half years ago, we had what was happening against the Golden Dawn and we had the well-known Samaras, Athanasios, Treasury, with some subspecies prosecutors who were behind, with Isidor Doyakos, with the prosecutor Costarello, with Klapa the interrogator, who put innocent Greek MPs in prison. Because they didn't do anything. And a POTTAMI Member who is not here daring dared to say that there were orders in Rupaiki, when no one dared to say so, when Rupaiki himself has come out and said that what happened was because there was a complication of him and some still opposite, when the judges who had taken the case never dared to say that there was a command from any executive or, above all, a member of the Golden Dawn. But that is not what anyone says, saying so many years with the media of mass deception that exist and serves interests, with some specific parliamentary dolls who have been here and continued this process, the names of innocent people who have been in prison have been seated twenty and eighteen months in prison, are even now on restrictive terms, when there are thieves, lams who have oppressed the Greek people, they have stolen them and have not even discussed them in court, because you cover them and when this case comes you do not vote to go to court and see who are guilty and who are innocent, unlike the Members of Golden Dawn. So he dared that man to enter this process and ask why Rupadia came out. So let's answer why Rupaias came out. Because in a murder that was with the professed killer saying that "I did it, there is nothing else", it became the world phenomenon, the world record being put in prison for fifty-seven people for a murder of a particular man by a particular, fifty-seven people, elected, executives, young people, women who had nothing to do with the case. The case, of course, has been humiliated, it has gone the way it should. I will ask you a question to those who are in here right now, but above all to the Greek people who are listening to us. Why do you think that for nine or ten months the Golden Dawn tribunal has started doesn't sound anything in the media? It doesn't sound anything, because every day in the court it turns out the truth, because every day in the court all those who had set up this case are humiliated. That's why big media rats have swallowed their microphones and they dare not say what's going on in the courtroom. This is the reality, and these MPs who are in here and who leave panicked after, who say these words, think about what they say, because they are either idiots and they say it - and they are very likely that - either provocators or prejudiced ones. Whatever both of them are, however, dangerous and do not deserve to have a place here in the Greek Parliament, because they demonstrate a great deal of empathy. This is not about ideology or who we like and who we dislike. It's about reality, about the truth. We can be honest, do we like the truth? As much as I do not like anything, I will admit whether it is a reality or not, as opposed to a very large portion of the Greek Members who were in here, who have hated the Golden Dawn, said everything and did not find the basic rules of emorality and manhood to say that what happened was unacceptable. That's why Rupaias - for those who ask, help them - came out. Also, we should remind you that way of some Baltaku video that existed. Baltakos wasn't anyone. He was the government secretary at the time and admitted that what happened had to do with political persecution and had been given the mandate by Samaras. None of them, however, took the initiative to search and see if what Baltakos says is true or lies. If it was a lie, we could talk about it. But was it true? And if it were true, did the Prime Minister then have to go to jail, and many ministers who had set up this whole plaiting? This debate therefore had to be held. And if the Prime Minister and the Qualified Opposition dare bring it to the House, they will actually be dismantled. We are ready at all times to bring more information to publicity with much that has been done, with SYRIZA who currently has no guts to bring into the light of publicity other scandals have been done, with New Democracy trying to save her ass. And that little kitten goes on. And let me tell you something else. So you accused the Golden Dawn of a criminal organization when no money, no economic benefit to anyone, no arsenal, nothing, just speeches. Unlike now that we see groups of anarchists marching in the center of Athens. And those guns that hold in their hands - as they themselves admit - are true. And I ask: why are those who have been indicted from time to time by this group of anarchists - their evidence exists and their group admits that the weapons they hold are really not being arrested as members of a criminal organization? Why does the SYRIZA Government cover them? And not only the SYRIZA government, but also the media, and all these journalists, who made the night for us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me a moment, Mr President. I had a lot to tell you. I won't make it. I would just like to finish with a proposal that we as a Golden Dawn will be tabling. We because we want to help for justice and for reality to be seen in the Greek Parliament, we would call and ask all the Greek MPs who have been in 2006 and then even before, to bring their assets to light, and our party funds and assets of each Member from us. To bring these - and not the 'avoided' ones, these smilings and one another - cover the assets in the party funds, what is there for everyone, from any party and there to be discussed and seen by the Greek people who are the thieves and the crooks and who are clean in this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u186	We invite the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Incorporation, Mr. Andreas Loverdos to Step. Here, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, in recent months, we have been experiencing a misrepresentation of terrorist events, terrorist acts in Paris, Istanbul, Ankara and Brussels, a misrepresentation of terrorist acts that are not aimed at the state, which can be defended, but are aimed at the daily citizen, the one who lives and breathes in the centres or neighbourhoods of the cities, the courts or the squares. With a return to the past - which one allows one to understand what phenomenon one is dealing with - we will see that this form of terrorism, the most painful, the hardest, the most bloody, the organizing and the conducting of fascism. And Europe has many examples of these since World War II, especially in the 1960s and 1970s. This terrorism is now an instrument in the hands of Islamic fanatics, which, in exactly the same logic as their former European idioms, hit everyday people in order to intimidate powers supposedly. They strike the everyday man by exercising a form of vengeance, because the possibilities of his life - in their opinion - are better and this man is to blame - for their own suffering. However, this, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism is a evil, a very great evil and nothing else. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It burdens all the problems, destroys and no one can build the slightest reservation on it. We must condemn it together and in the same way, clearly and unequivocally. I agree, as a Greek Member, with the postponement of today's debate. The whole planet is elsewhere, and we'd be somewhere else. Not that it does not happen on many other issues. It is happening, for example, in the management of the crisis. All the others of the crisis are elsewhere, and Greece alone, with its internal flow, the madness, the depression of selfishness, but not in this macabre event to be elsewhere than others. We condemn, take part in the pain and state in a clear and unequivocal way that we will not get used to it. Because, ladies and gentlemen, when you have mostly terrorist, criminal, bloody acts every five days in Turkey, one point and then you are repeated in condemnation and the outcome of solidarity. And that's defeat, feeling it. You must never think that you are repeating yourself when defending principles, such as the value of human life and the safety of citizens. Mirrorism, we won't get hurt. That is why as a Democratic Incorporation all this time we have been experiencing these events, these bloody, criminal, terrorist events, we are clear, specific. Our complaints are one-way, no asterisks, no reservations. It is a matter of principle, after all, condemnation of terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, because in recent years of terrorist activities they have focused on the cause and subject of terrorism in the fanatical Islamism since the beginning of the 2000s and so far, the rulers must understand that the country, on their own responsibility to a large extent, has been involved in problems that the wise political leaders of the past had left our country outside. Since the 1980s, ladies and gentlemen, with the initiatives of the late Papandreou and the relations that the country has developed with the Arab world Greece has remained outside. He stayed out of every fanatic collision he had centred, I say, once again, the Islamism of that level. He stayed outside, not because he was politicizing, but because he was exercising political courage, supporting the right fight of the Palestinian people. And all the next Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers, whether or not, follow this practice. And that's good. However, the unwise policies for months, which have made Greece a black hole in migration flows without a legal basis, for irregular, illegal migration flows, this policy is changing cowardly, cowardly lately, ladies and gentlemen. It hasn't changed, it's changed cowards, you cowards lately. The Prime Minister twenty days ago, on Mr. Hadjikolaou's show, denied the distinction of illegal immigrants from the refugee. He refused it, when the whole world accepted it and folded it into the meeting of the Council of Political Heads under the President of the Republic and, of course, at the summit and the European Council. So this policy, which did not see reality, brought NATO here as a necessary solution. We supported that. It was a solution, because we are making a criticism of what you have done both in national matters and in our country's problems with immigration and our economic policy, but we have a duty not only to criticise your disastrous policy, but also to say what has to be done, since things have brought it there. And as a necessary solution we said "yes", but we are conscious, ladies and gentlemen, that you are calling on NATO to solve a problem that you have created, but you are also accepting the agenda of this organization and as you know and as we know, the dominant issue on NATO's agenda is the fight against terrorism and the involvement of decision-making and enforcement centres in the neighbourhood of our country, with which Greece is involved, without wanting to do so. This poses risks which we have not had and therefore force the Greek Government to be in constant vigilance, and we have not yet seen this, despite all the experience we have experienced. We put our heads, with the responsibility of the government, in problems that neither now nor in crisis were needed, nor during the ages of acne, were they needed by Greece and the Greek citizen. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I will not be lenient, as I have been in the past, when I hear in this Chamber, my fellow Members from the majority who have been able to record the general principles under which the current government is politicizing refugee immigration and within that record, or if there is not at all the need to protect Greece and the Greek citizens, or to be last topics on the agenda of the people in question. We were elected to protect the interests, honor and dignity of Greece's Greeks and Greeks. That is our basic obligation. In the ideological references of each party and each Member of Parliament are followed by other values, principles, persons and situations. As far as we are concerned now, Mr President, the issue of our normal agenda, if this tragic event had not taken place against innocent people in Brussels, this bloody criminal terrorist act was to discuss a draft law on which we agree and some amendments on the majority of which we agree, since we know them, were tabled in due course and we have no grounds for a parliamentary opposition to say 'no'. However, I would like to make two references to them, and I should like to close what Mr Chakalotos, the Minister of Finance, said. First of all, he informed us that what we are talking about is the assessment and before it in tabling the draft law on raising money from insurance and from taxes - which are renamed insurance and tax, while it is neither insurance nor tax, but it is how they will take money from insurance and tax, to put it in the black public hole that they have created - that what we are talking about, Mr Skreka, this morning, is all wrong and lies. You told us that what is being discussed in the public debate does not apply and that others apply. And if he were here, I would say to him - and I address this Minister, Mr Alexiades - 'good, and what is it that is being discussed?' And as I heard them say this in SKAI - and it was journalists in this debate - there was no one who could say about this measure that is painful in itself, which is painfully 100%, compared with the arrangements that I had the honour to defend here and to vote on. There was no one to say how much this measure would give the budget for 2016 from 1 January. We arrive in April and the bounty will have a retroactive effect on the insurance money. How much will he give? And how will it come out in 1,800, Mr. Chakakalote, that you're here to tell us that you're wrong about the criticism of the media that don't know what they're saying? Have you told the Greek people what you say? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall not go into second place. The Bureau has given us the opportunity to look at the amendments. I will not exercise this right, but I would like to finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u188	All right, Mr. Loverdo, but by way of derogation, as you understand why this is a special process. So continue your thoughtfulness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u189	So I ask what the basis of the debate is, so that we too can discuss realities. Do you know how many months you've had us in this fucking situation? You said that on January 20th you would testify to the draft law on the drawing up of money from the insurance system. And we'll be back in April! And you come here and you rot and suggest what the public debate should be? With everything you feed it, that's what we're talking about! What is the real basis for the tax? Because, ladies and gentlemen, if the insurance policy is 1.800 - raising money from there, that is - they say that the total account you will bring us here by means of a single draft law does about 5 billion. And if he doesn't do five billion and do something close to 4 to 4,500,000, where do you bring the rest? Is it an undermining logic to say that the sources are specific? As far as insurance is concerned, I assure you that, if it reduces contributions, it will be taken from the supplementary and main pensions of whatever tricks it is that Mr Katrugalos or the majority members present to the Greek people. And as far as taxation is concerned, likewise. I'm not an expert. They're other specialties. I haven't handled them, but the sources are specific. Will you reduce the tax duty our governments had reached 9,500? Will you increase the rates? Will you increase the raising of money from side tax situations, such as HICPIA, a contribution of coke solidarity? Will you increase indirect taxes? What are you gonna do, since there's no growth after you brought us the recession? What are you gonna do? Why don't you tell us, to have a very specific debate, and you've been so generalising the dialogue, confusing everyone, and we've arrived in April, and we've been mocking here for so many months? Even the Minister - supposedly, Minister for Development - Mr Stathakis, who is always prolonging the issues of loans, business and others, does not tell us what the problem is. For we, ladies and gentlemen, hear that it is not a question of regulating'red loans', but of 'green' loans. And that's the reality! We hear it from everywhere! When it brought in here the extension of the legislation up to 15 April - which was already an extension of the law which provided that the regulation would come up until 15 February - we said: 'We are voting on it, you are giving it an extension'. But aren't you telling us where the involvement is? Aren't you telling us to know where your conversation is? What do you say to us until 15 April?’ And what did he add today with his ministerial intervention in another amendment, for another extension of loans, on another subject? He's not telling us! He's laughing! Mr. Minister of Development Behavior! But he doesn't tell us what it's all about. You are therefore making a political paradoxical, with the result that time is wasted in the 'I' varoufakia number to the detriment of the interests of the country, because the economy without security, ladies and gentlemen, is not working. That's something we all know. And I'll close with my second and last point. Has an amendment been made a while ago to support consultants who are recruited without a competition? Without a competition, supplies for the islands for the refugee - immigration, without a competition and this simple matter? One of the majority - I think you were, I heard you say so, Mr President, Mr Balaura, that you did so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u190	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u191	That's how I heard!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u192	I said that 8 million, the previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u193	If it happened before, why are you bringing in an order? To bring a provision and an amendment to that level, it goes on to say that there was no legal basis for doing so. Of course, we used counsellors and took them with rough contests. Of course, the Greek Governments need counsellors. You fooled us and said that "every advice you give us is advice from corpses in order to harm the interests of the Greek people"! You participated in populism that having a minister or Prime Minister is wrong and hanging us in the handkerchiefs. You had the Minister Barofakis, who said he would use only the officials of the Ministry of Finance, and then he took Korean with a wage outraged. You did this! We have been keeping the stubbornness of a legislation that has been in force since the 1980s and let many of us call it. It was right, that's why she survived for thirty years. It's necessary. But not that! Not to come and say that to advise you in the negotiation you want to make tenders without procedures and without transparency! We shall vote against this amendment. I close, saying: Time is missing again. And from the course of dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, from January to today, the retreats of the majority have become one after the other. "Only an increase in contributions," they said. After a ‘less increase in contributions and a reduction of only subsidiary contributions’. After 'cutting and main pensions'. I am referring only to one example. So the negotiation is a mockery. And as long as time is wasted, you lose points. You've screwed up, you've taken a pussy in a way that goes backwards and aggressively, you're walking around and we don't know who it's going to end up with. However, the Greek people will soon end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u194	We continue with Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Today's debate is of course marked by terrorist actions in Brussels. The Communist Party of Greece condemns these actions and expresses solidarity with the people of Belgium. We believe that such terrorist and criminal acts are becoming an alibi. After all, the role of the United States was important in the creation of the jihadist organisations. Such actions are therefore an alibi to new imperialist interventions and to escalate the attacks. This project has been seen since the terrorist activities in Paris. However, they are also an alibi for the escalation of new measures of repression and State terrorism in the name of dealing with terrorists against the peoples themselves and with the workers of the European Union. These developments create even worse conditions, even worse conditions for the lives and future of refugees and migrants in our country, in the light of recent decisions at the summit. These decisions marked the closure of the northern borders, the capture of tens of thousands of refugees and migrants in Greece, the refusal by the European Union - with the consent of the Greek Government - to implement the Geneva Convention on the status of refugees, issues which will shape the conditions for increasing the flow of migrants and refugees and, of course, will bring about an increase in the price of their slave traffickers. Also, all these developments highlight NATO's upgraded role in the wider Aegean region, on the one hand, in the context of competition and conflict with Russia, but above all show in particular NATO's upgraded role in its presence - on the pretext of refugees - in terms of the promotion of co-management in the Aegean and at the expense of Greece's territorial integrity. These are precisely the European Union's policies and decisions that also feed the snake's egg, fascism and racism, confirming once again that fascism and Nazism are the child of the system which uses it in difficult conditions as an executive body toward workers, to the people and their rights. In these government choices, there is the co-responsibility of the rest of the parties. After all, it is a recent and very fresh signature that has been issued to the public with the President of the Republic. The rest of the opposition parties believe that both NATO and the European Union are the factors to resolve the problem of immigration and refugee, and on the substance of the European Union and NATO is nothing but a factor of worsening this situation. The way out of these difficult circumstances can come from elsewhere only by questioning the European Union's choices and by extending government decisions, namely by questioning the treaties of the European Union such as the Schengen Treaty, Dublin decisions, but also recent summit decisions and their direct transfer to the countries of destination. In the meantime, measures need to be taken to create human conditions for the temporary livelihood of migrants and refugees for this minimum period of time needed for the formalities. Of course, also with today's bill to which the other parties to the opposition agree and vote, the debate has taken place in order to have a false argument between the other parties to the opposition and the government. For example, the New Democracy government representative spoke of a failed government, that the government's policy is a failure. Is that the way things are? We consider that government policy is a continuation of the policies of the previous governments, of the governments of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, which essentially implements what you left unresolved or did not want to treat as a New Democracy and PASOK when you were in the government, such as accelerating and promoting privatisation. The port of Piraeus is a bright example. The Greek is also a bright example, as are the privatisations of airports, issues relating to insurance through demolition of the substance of the social character of insurance and the conversion of the pension to a privileged or labour market-related overturns. It follows, in other words, faithfully the policy pursued by the previous governments, and that is why today's vote on the bill we are debating is no originality. It is incorporated into the Greek legal order of the European Union directives on the role of financial markets, so that there can be more unification, that is to say, for there to be uniform rules governing the operation of the financial markets within the European Union, by making it practically easier for the action of the large capital to be taken. A proclaimed objective of government policy, and that which applies in practice, despite the efforts to delight on the part of the government, is nothing but the promotion of two additional issues. The first is that the burdens of managing the capitalist crisis should continue to be borne by the employees, the pensioners and the rest of the people. The discussions with the quartet are revealing, the changes in taxation, the changes in insurance and in a number of other issues mark the escalation of the anti-grass attack, but at the same time also the promotion of such measures that will shield even more and ensure an even more favourable environment for the development of competitiveness and the profitability of monopolistic groups. So since the goals that government policy wants to achieve are the same without any differentiation to the objectives of previous governments, a very big question arises: why is this dispute between opposition parties that voted for the third memorandum and the SYRIZA - ANEL government? The dialogue is about real facts. It's not just a false intercourse. It is about who will get the credit from Mr Shoeble, from the European Union, from the International Monetary Fund, from the United States, as the best manager of the interests of capitalist barbarism and the policies that have been decided on. There is your struggle: Who will convince the bourgeois class of our country and the monopolistic groups that you can literally implement, unreservedly and without resistance to government policy, political choices, strategic choices of big capital in our country. And in today's conditions those who extract credit are, of course, the parties that form the coexistence, SYRIZA and ANEL, that under current conditions they can implement this barbaric and class policy much more effectively. From this point of view, the controversy you are making is shattered, because, in essence, you leave to the unprecedented the true responsibility of the day-to-day deterioration of the position of the people's family, which is nothing but the policies that they serve, support the strategic planning of the bourgeoisie and monopolistic groups. They are choices that it needs today to be able to survive the socio-economic system of capitalist barbarism. We say this clearly, we have no illusion, no doubt that the anti-grass attack will escalate in the next few years, with fiscal and insurance axes. From this point of view, the working class and other popular layers must be prepared. And they must be prepared, without any illusion, that the case of relief from the huge problems they face, the question of upgrading the position of the people, so that they can satisfy all the current and expanded needs, goes through one of the decisively strong support of the JRC, but also from the organisation of the joint struggle towards the real leaders of the problems to a reasonable overall and more generalist ruptures and reversals. Of course, the bill we are discussing and the amendments that our rapporteur has mentioned in detail, as a JRC, are against it in principle and as a whole. These amendments will be put in detail during the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. The last of the parliamentary representatives is Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, a parliamentary representative of the Independent Greeks. You have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor to Article 6 of the draft law on transparency between banks and the media provided or private individuals. Anyone who carefully reads the classified report of the "PricewaterhouseCoopers" published recently will see that without guarantees a channel took 124 million, another channel - again without any guarantee - it got around 15.5 million, a newspaper got around 3 million and a very well-known journalist got around 2.3 million. I would like to remind you here, because we have a weak memory: today there would be a debate on interventions in justice. First of all, I would like to quote and say that I am one of those who have been saying for years that the Parliamentary Republic, the third pillar of which is judicial authority, should be independent. The relentless Sotiris Bayas had made a terrible suggestion. He may not be talking about the absolute independence of justice, but very much independence. Unfortunately, nothing happened. Article 90 of the Constitution, which defines how the Presidents of the Ice Bay, the Court of Auditors and the Council of State are appointed, I believe that it will have to change sometime. This is a splendid field of glory in the next review to sit together if the Parliamentary Republic really wants to function properly, one of the three pillars really to be independent. By then, however, this is justice and we will see how it works. A MP, Dimitris Tsironis of PASOK, who was President of the Commission for Vatopedi, predicted in 2010 that the Cypriot economy and a specific bank would collapse, in fact, in a written report. Two years later the then Governor of the Bank of Greece, who was opposed to it, was denied because the bank did collapse two years and two months later. Around October or September 2012, the Cypriot economy collapses, the bank collapses. The Cyprus Parliament, the Ministry of Justice of Cyprus and the Prosecutor of Cyprus make a race. They believe their country has been damaged from 2.5 to 15 billion, with an average of 7 billion. Here I would remind you of the 'Lehman Brothers', which disturbed the planet in 2008: The abuse was around 70 billion and the world was shaken in the air. You understand what it means to a small country like Cyprus to lose between 6 and 7 billion. Even today, with various judicial terminology, this banker has not been interrogated by the Cypriot authorities. It has to do with the debate that was going to take place tonight in the Greek Parliament. I would also like to remind you - and I do not go into details - that is: I imagine that the Republic of Cyprus is not respected by a la carte. I don't believe Anastasiades has joined the SYRIZA. I say, the Cyprus Parliament, the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor of Cyprus. I would also like to remind you in relation to the conversation that was going to take place and is well postponed, in my opinion, that Christophurus has left in strings and organs like Karavelas, a justice that has again worked a little strange in that case. I would like to remind you that Sikashek gave dozens of names of Greek politicians who were bribed by Siemens and one Greek prosecutor advised that this was a donation. I would also like to remind you that a well-known publisher made all the "outside" procedures, statements, etc., apparently because he felt that it was unavoidable. Even things that he didn't have an interest in not doing, he disregarded them. He was getting bored, obviously. This is how the country has worked in many previous years. And I see a desperate attempt - because the overreact is emphasizing in this Chamber - that everything was well done, nothing was wrong, justice was working properly and went by saying. Today, there has been an incredible blow in Brussels. It's bad for all of Europe. Mostly, however, it's bad for our country. We know that the evaluation is in the process of pending, the refugee issue is also the case. It is a difficult time and it does not justify high tones. But I want to make it clear here. I often hear the criticism that on the one hand you are asking for a consensus and on the other you are blaming us. I would like to hear directly from any Member - and I believe that there are too many of them, most of them in here are honest people - from now on: Is there a netting between criminal offences or what justice is investigating about the country's governance? To answer that question, to know what's going on with us. Because I think we all have to be united. Corruption, complication in this country have played a decisive role. I can even hear some people who remind me more of the dictatorship's insurance: 'Names'! Names! And they say so with a veil, in the style, "If you don't tell names, you don't tell me anything." How many names do they need to remember that no one has ever been punished for the Stock Exchange that changed hands? How many names do they need to remember that five, six companies were taking all the public works for twenty years? How many names do they need? There's a thousand three hundred. Before, the Agricultural Bank, without any guarantee, financed people and worlds. How many names do they need to see how billions of the bank left for investments and went abroad? How many names do they need for the party that was held on the equipment? Unbelievable quarrel? ‘RAFALE’ or ‘F-16’; Groups from the back, etc. How many names do they need to remember what happened at the Olympic Games? They arrived at only five, and by direct delegation, certain people were favored. What I would like to say: this conversation that was going to take place and will be postponed - and I say again, correctly - must be done. This one-sided argument that all of the planet's suffering accumulated them in the country, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, the year they govern, must once end. I challenge it publicly as a Member of the Greek Parliament and not as a member of the "h" party, who has a scandal for this government, let me bring it to me and I commit publicly to take it out if it is really buttoned. If I don't take it off, I won't have a face to appear in front of you. Unfortunately, a large part - not all of which I must confess - of the civilian staff has put his hand in honey. It's not the time to remind them. It's a little hard at the moment. If the country arrived where it arrived, it was because the civilian staff were under the circumstances. Unemployment of 26% found her. Three million uninsured we found them. Three hundred thousand - Makis Balauras said - who had already left, we found them. A million below the poverty line found them. I, if I were a Greek citizen, would ask for one thing: never a politician to touch, never to put his hand on honey! I have this one requirement. And I believe that this government fulfils this requirement and fulfils it in full. All I want to comment on is Article 6. I wish with this article that there should be transparency, because the triangle of businessmen - banks - political staff who operated at the expense of ten million citizens, well held. I don't think it's just Article 6, but I think it's very helpful. It is true that we are both voting on the bill as a whole and on the principle. Objections exist. It could, to say, be cleared up first and then go. But I don't think it's a big deal. I think it is a great thing, however, that the banking system is not unavoidable. The rules in this system must exist and be transparent, transparent. I would like to believe - and I am finishing - that the strike in Belgium will not affect our country, because some have been terrified. I want to think it's a bad time to get over it. It also happened in Paris, in Damascus, with the collapse of the Russian planes, with the terrorist strikes in Turkey. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute and I'll be done, Mr. President. I really want to say, as far as my potential is concerned, with the strongest soul anyone can say: if you stop the civilian staff getting intertwined, the country will change its way. And I think this government at this point is successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u198	Thank you Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, as SYRIZA rapporteur, can I have the floor for the amendments which were not tabled while I made the recommendation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u200	We've agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u201	Isn't the Minister going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an announcement to make, and then I will give the floor for two minutes to the rapporteurs, and then we will give the floor to the Minister to close. Unless you want the Minister to precede.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u203	That the Minister should take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u204	Let's agree. I think it's a little more pedigree now. To give the floor to the Minister, to comment on you, and then, if necessary, to close the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-four students and apprentices and four educational attendants from the 9th Sparta Municipal School and Municipal School of Magulas Lakonia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce to the House the following: The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs submits its reports to the draft laws of the Ministry of National Defence: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Cyprus in the areas of Infrastructure and the Environment/Energy’. B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Korea on Mutual Protection of Classified Military Intelligence’. Finally, the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics submits its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. After that, I think we can give the floor, as we have said, to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Typhoon Alexiadis. Then the debate will take place, as we have set it. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u205	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think today leaves no room for any political exploitation and we must all state the least, that we are all Belgian. We must also understand that Europe's problems cannot be solved by a country, by a single logic, but it needs cooperation. And it cannot be that the logic that has prevailed in previous years - as to how we are dealing with national and social problems - go on in Europe. We need to change strategy in Europe, because otherwise these problems will unfortunately deteriorate and bring to the fore the political forces and views that will reproduce this vicious circle in Europe. As far as the issues of the bill are concerned, and as regards the political criticism we have heard today in this House and in the committee, I would like to point out the following, which we have said before. The government's criticism has a common feature. I do not want to say that it is coordinated from somewhere, but it has a common feature: the inability of New Democracy, PASOK and Potami to table an implied political proposal. They are criticising the government and the committee here, but they do not table any alternative political proposals. Why am I talking about these three parties? Because they have the great responsibility for the country's present mess since they have ruled for tens of years either as parties or some of their members. And it is really challenging to come here and blame, for example, for the issues of the tax system or the debts of those who created the problems. And they blame us for trying to solve the problems. Also, without wishing to link the refugee issue to the events of Brussels or Istanbul - because this has also been done here, some people have come to table their regrets about what has been done in Brussels and immediately afterwards to combine them with the government's responsibilities in the refugee field - I would like to say this: On the question of the criticism that has been heard here today to the government over the refugee issue, apart from a particular ward, which is very clear about what it proposes - to sink boats and to set up machine guns at the borders - the others who criticised the government did not say what the government is wrong. So what different were we supposed to do in the refugee as a government? What's the review? What's the other proposal? Because I have constantly criticised, criticism, criticism, and I do not understand what they want to say. There is one argument, which is heard and heard here again. They come here and want to read SYRIZA's election papers, comparing what SYRIZA said in election and what the government is doing today. We have answered many times and have established exactly what the government is doing today, the historical record and the political path. However, I shall fully agree with the representative of the New Democracy. The memories are fresh and people remember very well what the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have done and where the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK led us, with the participation and support of officials from the Potami who come here today and teach us moral lessons and think that the government is corrupt for our oligopoly in the field of tax evasion and smuggling. Mercy! Hypocrisy to the supreme degree! What should we say about what the New Democracy Governments, PASOKs and the Governors from Potami who were first-class executives, either in the state apparatus or in these parties, have done for these areas that are currently accuseing the government? But let us get through this because the opposition has a clear political message to send to the Greek people. He wants to get back to yesterday. That's right, and he's right, he's criticizing the government. She wants us to go back to yesterday, because that's her vision. And we need to understand that, first of all, because we know very well what the vision of the citizens is. I have heard the criticism of the consultants, who are needed to do our job. The Vice-President has said very clearly about this amendment. It is provocative, however, that those who want to go back to yesterday to lay off people, criticise us for the advisors we need for a certain period of time and a specific job. As far as the issues of the bill are concerned, however, as I have said in committee, this draft law incorporates the European Directive 213/50 into Greek law. This Directive concerns transparency, with regard to the information that securities issuers should provide to the public and the competent supervisory bodies. Thus Greek legislation is in line with European law, while at the same time improving the quality of the information provided, redefining the market for the benefit of both issuers and investors, especially those investors who have a longer-term perspective, a longer-term strategy. These are precisely the investments we are seeking. They are investments that can turn the vicious cycle into a virtuous, investment with multiplier economic benefits in the real economy. However, I will not bore you with the technical issues and the law analyses. The majority rapporteur has analysed them sufficiently, but they were also discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs. My point - and I think it is the political point of the bill - is Article 6, an article which is the government's legislative initiative - was not in the directive - and hits one of the long-term diseases of the Greek economy. It hits the opacity, hits the relationships between the banking system and the media. Because our development strategy could not have come to a break with the conflict. And we all know that the sinful triangle of interlocutory is no more than the triangle of businesses, banks and the media. Thus, Article 6 of this article for the first time gives rise to the obligation of credit institutions to publish all payments made to the media, advertising companies and entities, linked to the previous companies for advertising purposes, all their expenditure on promotion or promotion, as well as all grants and donations to natural or legal persons. It is very clear, then, what we want to do and it is very clear and the fines we want to impose on those who do not want to obey this story, not to check - as has been said - the banks or other institutions in another way. You've taught the predecessors to the government a lot of toys in this story. We will not follow you because we want to protect the city. On this point, however, I would also like to take the opportunity to speak about the falsification of my speech on a topical question which was raised on Friday. And the impression is not that some media and journalists are standing there. I repeat, 'Some journalists', because I want to separate them from those who honor the pen - not the exact 'Mont Blanc' that some have and are constantly writing - who, with very few wages, work and work every day to complete the information. We've known these reporters since the past few years. We know them through their struggles for the words 'corruption' and 'complexion'. There are some journalists you've been looking for, they've never said those words publicly. We know them from their struggles to reveal the various lists, such as the Lagard list, etc. We know them from their struggles about the debts of the parties - the New Democracy and the PASOK - and how all these things should be covered, from what they said in the various scandals. We know them very well. And I know very well that this passage - even cut off - will not play in their news reports. Impression, therefore, is not caused by the attitude of some media and certain journalists. Impressively it causes Members of Parliament to adopt the falsification of the Minutes of Parliament, of reality, because it is clear what I said in this House. It is clear that I was referring to the tax history of the place, in the past, precisely what has nothing to do with what the government does. Because the government has inherited a tax system which is changing - in the budgetary framework and in the country's commitments - slowly and firmly. It's clear what the montazier wanted to do when he falsified the statements. He wanted to hide that with the amendment that was voted on in the Committee on Economic Affairs, it is today - I hope - and in plenary, it ends the crisis with the tax declarations and another propaganda of all previous months is over. What did the propaganda say? We will have a retrospective tax on the incomes of 2015, said the propaganda, a tax storm for the incomes of 2015, an increase in the taxation for rents in 2015. And various MPs and executives here took pieces of the news releases and brought them to their talks. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment closes this sirial. There is no retroactive tax for 2015. On Friday, the complication didn't want to play this as news and found the statement to create a problem. It is therefore clear that we are starting with tax declarations. There was the criticism that we are starting them late. I think that those who make this criticism do not have a picture - or want to hide that they do not know - how the legislation in this House comes, through what process, or do not understand what negotiation means. It is probably in favour of the rapid, fast-track negotiation, in which we are going, we are negotiating and bringing to Parliament what has come from outside. We, gentlemen, are making a substantial negotiation, a difficult negotiation. And we are trying as much as we can to ensure that the result of the negotiation is positive for society. But there are those who criticise that the Ministry of Finance is delaying and asking why this is not happening or the other. I wish it would be organised - I see here the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs - in the Committee on Economic Affairs, in order to come and discuss what happened in 2013, in 2014 and what happened in 2015 on taxation matters, how much increased the controls, what happened with tax evasion and smuggling, to stop the misinformation. I want them to tell me at what other time in the Ministry of Finance we had such work at legislative level and when we had such work at audit level. Because if we compare the amount established by audits in 2015 compared to 2014, it is far greater. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I have to talk about the bill, about the amendments, about a thousand and two. I'd like for two or three minutes your patience. I won't eat you much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u206	Good. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u207	When did so many things happened to serve the citizen, to reorganise the Ministry of Finance? When did we take out the skeletons of the laws, which had been passed in the Greek Parliament, but, because they involved controls, smuggling issues, etc., no ministerial decisions were made? That is why there is no criticism. They are laws passed on to governments of New Democracy and PASOK, right laws to which we make the decisions and proceed to their implementation, because they were left in the cabinets of the Ministry of Finance. So negotiations, yes, substantial, with results to the benefit of society. In relation to this bill, we see that, in addition to incorporating the European directive, concrete interventions are being implemented, improving the investment environment, making it safer and more attractive to the general public, while at the same time increasing transparency and giving rise to a blow to the relations between banks and the media. Thus, the country's financial system is becoming even more credible and more stable. To conclude, in order not to ask for another time and there are rightly protests, I would like to refer to the amendments. Amendments Nos 290/69, 291/70, 292/71 and 293/72 are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u208	Mr Minister, say them a little more slowly, because I see that colleagues are trying to make them. Tell them from the beginning, if you have any kindness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u209	I apologise and repeat them. Amendments Nos 290/69, 291/70, 292/71 and 293/72 are accepted. Parliament's amendments are not accepted. The issues raised by the two parliamentary amendments, the first, which are tabled by four Members of the New Democracy - Mr Besiropoulos, Mr Karasmanis, Mr Stylis and Mr Athanasiou - and the second, tabled by Mr Adonis Georgiadis, are present and we will treat them as a government in another legislation in a way which effectively solves the problem. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", nineteen French students and students and a trainer. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We will give the floor to the rapporteurs and to the special speakers, if they have to add or ask anything, but without having to speak again. Does a colleague want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u211	I was covered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u212	Mr Gilolas was covered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u213	I request the floor for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u214	I, too, request the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u215	I see that Mr Besiropoulos and Mr Koutsoukos are asking for the floor. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. I won't be long, just two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of my prototype, the debate and the vote of this bill coincides with the Government's attempt to disorientate and avoid the deadlock created by its policy. Members of the government but also colleagues from the government majority are moving with that very logic. It accepts any debate on transparency and justice. Obviously there is an inconvenience to the complaints made by a judicial officer against Mr Papaggelopoulos, for which we are asking for the self-evident: to have a full investigation. But not for SYRIZA to tell us that he sent the various lists to justice! Let me remind you that the Lagard list, just sent to the office of the then Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, was sent on the same day to the financial prosecutor on 2 October 2012, and the second cd of the list, as soon as it was received, was sent on the same day to the financial prosecutor on 21 December of the same year, at the request of the then Minister of Finance, Mr Stournara. The same applies to lists of foreign and Luxembourg transfers. The first was forwarded to the financial prosecutors on 5 September 2012 and the second, likewise, at the beginning of September. The sixty-five cd list was created at the request of the ILO at the beginning of the mandate of the Government of Samaras to the Association of Greek Banks. That's to restore the truth. As for the amendment tabled late by the government today at 12 noon, with a general number of 292 and a special number 71, I would like to say that the practice of using parliamentary procedures is continuing to serve personal and party purposes. This is a photographic and customer-friendly amendment which we cannot accept. Don't you trust the executives of the Ministry of Finance? Does this amendment also involve a former advisor to Mr Varoufakis from abroad, who you continue to use it, by paying him and not least by paying him. For the other amendments, Mr President, I have put it in my prototype. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, too. Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos from the Democratic Partnership has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u218	Giannis, two 'n', Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u219	Yannis, okay, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. I just want to make one comment on what the Minister said. It scares me that distinguished government officials think we're going forward, and it's certain that we're going back to all levels: the economy, the standard of living. Mr Alexiadis said the truth the day before yesterday. I don't know if he got away with it, but he told the truth. Because 2016 will be a year when we will have additional taxes. That is why 'the bad things are over and the worst comes', as he said. And that is the negotiation you are negotiating, Mr Minister, on the 'plus memorial'. To fill gaps created in the course of your administration, which were not registered before taking over. Mr Drasakis also came and did well, I think, and explained to us the feasibility of Article 6. I am pleased that he has agreed with my proposal to extend the obligation to publish the information to the ECJ. He has a responsibility as Vice-President of the Government to coordinate the relevant ministers to come to the House quickly. That's his job. Until then, we'll wait. We shall vote for the provision, except that they cannot express to us what is said by the Stepma that we are dealing with the banks, we are putting them on track. For we all know, ladies and gentlemen, that the banking system has been delivered to foreigners. The board that judges its administrations and makes the choices is under foreign supervision, and that's why there's some suspicion that now that you don't have control, you're now bringing the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u221	Why did we have him in control?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Balaura, you don't have the floor, please. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u223	Let me move on, Mr President. I say, therefore, that the amendments, even if necessary, will be voted on, because they are indeed 'needed to the comb' sometimes, but that is not the way to legislate. There is, however, our opposition to an amendment, which Mr Lovers expressed, but I would also like to say it. It is not possible to bail on colleagues from the Stepping of the House, Parliamentary representatives of the parties who support the government, against interlocutory, to scorn it from the Step and to vote in a system of amendments granting exceptions to all procedures. Does this not cultivate complexity and opacity? So if you want to fight the complexion, you don't do it in words, you do it in practice. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u226	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, I ask for the floor so that what has been heard is not considered unanswered and it is clear. I mean, two things. First of all, this amendment, as Mr Tsakalotos said, on the issue of the executives with whom we need to work on the negotiation issues, does not in any event mean that we have no confidence in the officials of the Ministry of Finance. But here we have reached the other side of Ruvikon. Those who provedly took the laws in English, translated them and brought them to Parliament are now blaming us, because we need to work with executives at a much lower cost than in previous years. Mr Tsakalotos said so clearly. Of course we have confidence in the officials of the Ministry of Finance, who give a great fight, beyond hours, five days, weekends, etc., but we also need special staff, specializing in specific things that the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Economy and Development does not have. Second, and I'll close with it. We are hearing a criticism of what we are negotiating. And here even hypocritical voices were heard. I will remind you of two things, because some have forgotten even what they have voted on. Law 4334/2015. It was voted by two hundred twenty - nine MPs! Law 4336/2015. It was voted by two hundred twenty-three MPs! Do you know what those laws provided for, for which we are now forced to negotiate and take measures and which the whole House has voted on? They anticipated an increase in VAT on the islands. So this is not something that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has voted on. These are the two laws, No.4334/2015 and No.4336/2015, which were passed. We are also striving for a solution to the issue with the islands. The increase in income tax and specific measures, like oil for farmers, were also voted. Well, it is not possible for what has been voted on at the time, now that it is time for implementation, some say 'it is your fault for these things'. Let some people take responsibility for how the country was led here and we, with the responsibility and the seriousness we have as a government, are going to get through. So let them also take responsibility for what they voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, would you excuse me for a moment for clarifying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u229	Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u230	Before the vote, the last amendment is missing under a general number 293 and a special number 72, which the Minister told us is acceptable. What's the matter with both of you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u231	The Minister will answer. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u232	The amendment with a general number 293 and a special number 72 shared.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u233	It empowers the Securities and Market Commission to impose fines.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u234	The law that you have brought us now does not include in this amendment, and all other amendments are included.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u235	It's in Article 6.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u236	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 293 and a special 72 was incorporated into Article 6.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u237	Yes, with paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation: (a) in the provisions of Directive 2013/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 and (b) in Article 1 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u239	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u240	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u241	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation: (a) in the provisions of Directive 2013/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 and (b) in Article 1 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are now in the vote on the articles. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u242	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u243	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u244	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u245	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u246	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u247	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u248	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u249	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u250	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u251	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u252	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u253	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u254	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u255	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u258	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u259	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u260	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u261	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u262	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u263	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u264	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u265	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u266	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u267	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u268	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u269	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u270	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 290 and a special number 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u271	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u272	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u273	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u274	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u275	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 290 and a special 69 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 291 and a special number of 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u276	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u277	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u278	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u279	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 291 and a special 70 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 292 and a special number 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u280	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u281	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u282	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u283	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u284	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u285	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u286	Therefore, Amendment No 292 and specific No 71 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 293 and a special number 72 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u287	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u288	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u289	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u290	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u291	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u292	The amendment, under a general number 293 and a special 72, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 6 of the draft law. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u293	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u294	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u295	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation: (a) in the provisions of Directive 2013/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 and (b) in Article 1 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 and other provisions’ was accepted in principle, on articles and on amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u296	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u297	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u298	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u299	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u300	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation: (a) in the provisions of Directive 2013/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 and (b) in Article 1 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u301	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u302	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-22-S1-commons.u303	With the consent of the House at 15.28 minutes the sitting on Thursday 24 March 2016 at 9.30 hours on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
