ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The first question will be debated under number 850/10-5-2016 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament 2 Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the illegal chartering of vessels. Mr. Kammenos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, good evening. In view of the tourist season and on the occasion of the inauguration made earlier in Pasalimani, where we were together, of the great report 'Med Yacht Show', which we hope will be a very long and successful report on the chartering of vessels in Greece, I would like to mention a few elements. The problems it has, anyway, as a result of an economic crisis, faces marine tourism are many and important. These problems have been the illegal chartering of vessels and the unfair competition that has been created for years by the inability of Greek legislation and by extension of the Greek coastguard that controls to put a definitive end to them. A visit to Internet pages is enough to find that there are thousands of foreign flagships offered for rent during the summer months in tourists. The vessels concerned have not been declared to any State body, have no professional licence, do not comply with the Presidential Decree 917 concerning the requirements of the Greek State concerning the safety and equipment of the professional vessels and do not have Greek VMS, thus increasing undeclared work and the "black" of money and evading, since they do not pay the planned VAT on the shipyards. At the same time, apart from the loss of revenue for the Greek State, but also for Greek shipowners, thousands of jobs are lost, and since the vessels concerned have not been checked, no one can guarantee that the necessary safety rules are respected. In view of the above, Mr Minister, you ask: How do you plan to deal with the issue of illegal chartering that causes considerable losses of revenue for the Greek State, but also for the Greek owners of such vessels? Is there an estimate of the amount of this loss of revenue, as well as of the jobs created by the illegal chartering of vessels travelling undisturbedly to the Greek seas from 2009 to the present day? Are you prepared to table more stringent legislation on illegal chartering and to increase controls to identify any infringements and to promote the uninterrupted and safe operation of Professional Tourist Boats with Greek Professional License? Will a body be set up to monitor online entries concerning charters of this kind in order to make reservations and arrests of shipowners? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u3	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I sincerely thank you for the question, because it is timely because of the start of the tourist season, but also the object you are describing - at least according to the strong indications - it has an existing basis. I have to say to you at the first moment that recorded data with completeness and formality are not available, precisely because these illegal charterings by ships from abroad that operate on occasional and short-term in our country are not so easy to check, since very often, while there is chartering, this is not official and visible, but through mutual understanding between charterers and users it appears to be a tourist trip to a friendly company. Therefore, the illegality cannot be recorded, with all the consequences it has. Nevertheless, all the evidence that has been collected from time to time shows that the problem, as you find it in your question, really exists. We dealt with these last year, much less and much more systematically this year, about two months ago. First of all, a wide-ranging meeting of the service actors at the Ministry was organized to categorise the components of this issue and then we produced a wider meeting with the associations of professionals active in this area and the three associations including seafarers. So now the Ministry really assures you that it has a complete file on the data, as at least indicative and empirically can be recorded. We are well aware that scientific and official documentation is needed and that is why we have studied what controls we can organise. We have come up with a series of targeted controls that have already begun to unfold. On the other hand, we have already decided through this process, by recording the similar proposals, the creation of an observation centre, as you say in your question, to detect online ads for charters that can be found on various websites around the world. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] When we have - and we will soon have - a sufficient list, we will be able to use it to what I told you before, targeted controls. From this point of view, the mechanisms of the Ministry are being activated, they have already received instructions and they will also get other more specialized in the direction of full control of the phenomenon.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u5	Minister, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u6	I shall continue, Mr President, by giving some more information in my denology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the news you have told us is encouraging. If human resources or specific technology are needed, so that any infringements, as you said, can be recorded, because so far we have evidence, then this government must bring solutions to this issue, because it is very important and very sensitive. A piece is public revenue, a large part also is a possible accident from a ship which has been illegally chartered in Greece by foreigners, undeclared, which will adversely affect Greece from a tourist point of view in international media, which will be very difficult to bring back. In fact, we have to prove that we have checked and escaped or that we have not checked at all. From that point on, I think that a solution, as the people of us have proposed, was to become a register. At some point we should ask for a large register of vessels. The country's register is needed in several of the forests, buildings, fields, but it will also need a register of ships, so that there is no control in Greece without any control, because this has very significant disadvantages for the Greek economy. From there on, the Ministry of Shipping with its worthy people and crews will be good to step up their efforts in the summer and especially in the marinas and ports from where the vessels are leaving, so that a standard check can be made for who goes into a sailing boat, who leaves, see the pact and see if you like, and the debts and how the payments were made. It's a simple way. Closed up, I'll say one more thing. If we need a step in the ILO - last year I remember, at a good time, with Mrs Valvaani, we said 'where to find for VAT' and there was no world - to do so. I'll support it. Let's take a mixed step. You should, because fear, as our people say, guards the deserts! I don't know if it's a peculiar term, but we also have to do a mixed step, the port of one of the ILO's people, so that we communicate that we control everything, not everything, not the income, but the accident and human life, and anyway, so that we don't seem to be a country that doesn't have control over any service, and let alone its industry, which is tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u10	Mr Colleague, I validate what you have said. I am in agreement with the accuracy of what you have presented. When we talk about this issue, indeed, it is also a matter of public interest, public revenue and security, but also of ensuring fair competition against unfair competition at the expense of professionals working in our country in this sector. I will not insist any more on what I said to you in the plan for targeted controls. I'm putting it right there. We have already sent - the competent Maritime Investment and Maritime Tourism Directorate - a letter to shipowners about twenty days ago. We will now also send it to all the shipowners of the main states who are developing such an activity, pointing out the risks of this irregular, illegal activity and informing them of the consequences provided for by Greek legislation. At the same time, apart from the observatory I have told you, we are working on legislation in relation to advertising. However, we need to pay attention to two or three minutes, because in the past there was such a provision: L.2743/2009, where later with L. 4256/2014 this provision was deleted. We need to reprocess it so that it is based on modern realities. The register of boats and small boats we have promoted it very intensively. It's a co-competence of other ministries. And at times we have been delayed by the need for Union law to be compatible with national law. In any case, in order not to bore you, this is a number of details and obstacles that are being raised more by the General Secretariat of Revenue than by the relevant ministries. This is due to the delay, although for us that was the first objective. Without the ship register, no one can do a serious job. Finally, we have already posted the e-mail address 'dinethat - yachting@inourgov.gr', through which all relevant parties - it is a choice of the last few days, the product of all these meetings, which I have informed you before - with the industry and every citizen there can inform the service, raise these issues, denounce and complement the investigations and activities of the services. I think that very soon this summer we will be able, if we do not completely eliminate the phenomenon, to limit it too much, and to increase public revenue, but also to ensure that all other parameters are ensured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u11	Thank you too, Minister. The question will be discussed under number 823/254-2016 of the second-round question of the Athens Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the delay in implementing development reforms – “Lista Stathakis”. Mrs. Asimakopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we will discuss two questions today. The first, as the President has announced, is to do with the delay in implementation - we have called it 'Lista Stathakis'. I cannot comment, of course, on the fact that this delay is in line with the delay in answering this question - it is the fifth time, I have already waited four times - so I would ask you to have an integrated answer to something that I consider to be particularly important. "Lista Stathakis", then, we have named the Memorandum list, i.e. the n. 4336/2015 in particular Article 3(c) and sub-paragraphs 1 ‘Prospective and strategic’, 4.2 ‘Product purchases and entrepreneurial environment’ and 3 ‘Reservation of non-performing loans, (SMEs)’. There are commitments for specific reforms, among others, in the area of growth and competitiveness. I counted them, and they're about sixty actions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would therefore like to tell you, Minister, that growth is not a memorial obligation for us, it is a national bet, which also wants a strategic plan, and it also wants a commitment, and it wants planning. I am also going to focus on these development actions, which have something to do with the OECD. You know that the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, today travels to Paris, deals with this issue, we have an opinion, we have a past in relation to the implementation of these actions. I would also mention them, because in the past what I have raised, say in March 2014, when you specifically commented on the reforms provided for by the OECD toolbox - you will tell me what I now say, so long before things have changed - you said that it was a foreign philosophy to our country that needs to rebuild its economy and that the government had to throw this toolbox away. And the Prime Minister agreed with you now. On 19 March he also said that the toolbox had nothing to do with the OECD, but it was an invention of the Greek Government by intercepting the OECD seal in order to pass on arrangements that specifically favoured economic interests. This was your 'last year' theorem for the OECD toolbox. In order not to exceed time, Mr President, I would also like to thank you for your tolerance. I will assume that you have now changed your mind and that you will obviously apply these things and I will ask you to tell me three priorities that you have not implemented by the sixty priorities that you have from the OECD toolbox that you really believe in and you will put them forward and you will probably put three issues on which you may object - as Mr Mitsotakis has said - and that you would like to change some things to improve them on the basis of your own ideology, philosophy and strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u13	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u14	I thank Mrs Asmakopoulou and the reports that SYRIZA was in the opposition. And I will be very specific about the range of development initiatives included in the list, but they are not included in the list of Memorandum commitments. I think the government's initiatives across this range include: Firstly, the development law that this week's consultation closes, a great part of the country's development legislation. Secondly, the completion of the development plan, which is a commitment, which must be completed in April or May, now that we are discussing the initial planning, where the initial study by the JEP has been completed, and therefore we are at the stage of the discussions and negotiations on how to conclude the debate on this, in a debate of course with the institutions. The third issue is the upgrading of development institutions, such as the EIB and other institutions, where legislation is in place, as well as the major changes that are legislatively ready for either public procurement, a single public procurement regime with a huge impact on the economy, public concessions and other initiatives that exist, either through the use of the tools of the new ESRB, as well as the Yunger Plan, which was launched essentially a few weeks ago. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I now come to the OECD. As you know, the OECD has three sections, ‘toolbox first’, ‘toolbox second’, ‘toolbox third’. The first, part of it, has been applied to the vast majority by the previous government. What we have done in relation to this 'toolbox', which is mentioned by the criticism we have made at the time, is that the present agreement is reassessed two years after the reforms made on the basis of the 'OECD Toolbox 1', how they were implemented and what effect they have actually had. So, part of the study technique, which is currently being carried out on the basis of discussions with the institutions, is to evaluate these reforms of "toolbox 1". I would remind you of cement, book and some other areas where the toolbox was applied, in order to have a better and objective picture of the results of these changes. Secondly, the OECD 'toolbox 2', as you know, has now been implemented and developed, is now the OECD 'toolbox 3', which seeks to remove barriers to competition in five sectors of the economy: first, e-commerce, second, wholesale, third, construction, fourth, processing and fifth to the media. The first phase has been completed in relation to the "third toolbox", which has a full mapping of the legislation and is going through the evaluation phase. The picture is therefore that, by changing the conditions and macroeconomic conditions of the economy, development finance instruments and institutional changes in relation to the business environment are fully or fully completed in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u15	Before giving the floor to Mrs Asmakopoulou, I would like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliamentary House, fifty-five students of Parliamentary Law of the University of Athens Law School, as well as nineteen students and students and three other professors from the Private Municipal Maritime of Crete. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. I did not see much enthusiasm, Minister, in your reference to the toolbox, nor did you, of course, be as specific as I would like. But that is your right, the way you answer the questions. I told you to tell me a few specific things that you really want as Minister to get forward and say that you have been reformed by the toolbox, which you have assessed and all the things you want to make forward. I think you're glamorous, because a lot of these things you don't believe. I am not speaking personally - obviously - but politically, as government and as a party. When it comes to presenting them in detail, because they will undoubtedly be affected in particular, gains and interests, it will be difficult. We will see, however, which of the two will be confirmed. I would like to close up and ask you something in the debate we are having. You know, in New Democracy - and Kyriakos Mitsotakis has said it - we have a very specific view of where growth will come from. I know that the record of SYRIZA and the government at this time is that growth is coming, we take off, and we should put security belts here, so that we don't extend to take-off in development. We all want the good of our country, and of course we want growth. For us, however, this is based on three things: one is of course not to increase taxes. We saw this last weekend. We will see from what I have understood and very briefly another 1.8 billion indirect taxes will be added to the increase in insurance contributions and the rabies attack on entrepreneurship, in particular by increasing taxes, but on all Greeks. One, then, is taxes. There can be no growth with that level of taxes. We are therefore in favour of lowering taxes. Secondly, it is attracting investment. In your government you have some issues between you two. A cocoon doesn't bring spring. Whatever you want, but among you there are some disagreements on the subject of investment. I leave that, too. So today we are discussing the reforms with this question. Reforms are the hard part. It is not the taxes that Members who raise their hands, who say 'yes' to everything. You have to believe them and want to do them and be very specific. Honestly, Minister, I am not at all sure of that. If these three, interconnected, conditions are not met, it is activated by what I understand is the famous cutter. We haven't seen the mechanism yet. I read today, however, for example, that the cut will not exclude certain things, but will not exclude the Public Investment Programme. I wonder if that's something you'd like to commit to. Of course, I read and later report and accept that this has not been closed and we will see it. He says some things about how it works. I think it is an opportunity to commit ourselves, because I think that we cannot seriously say that there will be a cut in the Public Investment Programme and then investment will be made and growth will come from it. This is one thing you might want to give a clarification to. Because, in the end, this whole debate is being held to close the evaluation, but also for debt. If the reforms take place and if there are investments, GDP will be increased. In the end, that is what it is all about. This will also solve the debt issue, and this will solve the unemployment issue, which will resolve a number of issues. That is why, if you are kind, Minister, I would like a few more clarifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u18	I do not know if we are tested according to the intensity with which we support or not certain categories of reforms. The main point, I think, is that there is a great debate on the country's development problem. In this debate I have the fear - if not the certainty - that the previous government has insisted very much on the idea that growth will come through a combination of three things: lower wages, little taxation and full liberalisation of markets. I repeat that I have this fear - if not the certainty - that this was where the previous government thoughts went. The thoughts of the present government, I formulate directly, are that our development plan is moving in the opposite direction. We do not believe in growth through low wages. We believe in growth through high wages. We have a strong additional argument. Greece now has a very high capacity, competence and level of education. One out of two young Greeks is a university graduate. The growth strategy must therefore be based on real human resources and not be involved in a process of unnecessarily competitive with countries - among them and neighbouring - which have much lower wages and lower social security conditions and a social state. The second element is that we want and seek to simplify the business environment, simplify red tape, automation of licensing mechanisms, facilitate all activities and at the same time facilitate markets that operate competitively and facilitate the entry of new businesses into them. So in that direction we are committed and will move. The third and most important is that attracting foreign investment has been misled by the idea that it depends on very low taxation or other criteria. However, any look in Europe will show the simple and obvious, that countries with high taxation, Germany, France and dozens of other countries, are the cities to attract foreign investment. So the tax issue is secondary to all other things, which, in my opinion, are much stronger, such as the business environment, the stability of institutions, the size of the market, the effectiveness of the state's operation and other factors, which are at the heart of our approach. I would like to make one final point. The reassessment of the OECD reforms and the third toolbox is part of a broader discussion with the OECD, because we have upgraded our relations with the OECD, since we have become a government and have a new programming framework for agreements with the OECD, which has extended the agenda for the discussions, covers a number of studies, with which we have agreed to move forward, as well as the operation at search level for broader reforms that the Greek economy needs. So the effort with the OECD has been upgraded by the present government, precisely because we are seeking, in addition to the toolbox practice, which was the main point of contact with the OECD, to contribute to a framework for discussion and conclusion in development tools and development issues, which concern a wider range of interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u19	We continue with the fourth under number 811/19-4-2016 topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary Committee of New Democracy Mr Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the financing of the 2007-2013 ESDP projects in danger. Mrs. Asimakopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we continue with another matter. Here I'll remind you of something, though we both have foreign intakes, but I'll tell you about the whole world he understands. You have seen on TV that the witness is in court and puts his hand in the gospel and does not say "I will tell the truth," he says, "I will tell the truth and only the truth and the whole truth." I'm making this cute report because the Prime Minister here confided us that he might have had fraud a while ago. I personally think he didn't have any delusions. I personally think she was just lying about some things. And because I want to have the truth and the whole truth and only the truth about a particular subject, I am very briefly referring to the history of this timely question. In December 2015, a committee came up and looked a little at the projects of the NRP and put some priority projects and told us that there are some projects that are "in danger", fourteen in fact. Then our MEP, Mrs Spiraki, made a written question a few days later to Mrs Cretsu and asked what was going on with these projects. Why did he ask that? Because if these projects had not been completed by the end of 2015, they had to be financed from our national budget, from the Public Investment Programme. On the same day Mr Haritsis came out with an answer and said: 'Don't worry, there is no question of that.' Mrs Cretsu replied that this is the case, in fact, if it is not completed by 31 December, then we will have their renegotiation in substance and will have to be covered by national resources. We are coming from New Democracy to ask: what are these projects and what is the total budget and where will you get that money from if they end up? And let me say that we have a little general answer. In order to be fair and correct, I assume that you have not yet had a full picture, but you have made two circulars - and for the sake of briefness I am not talking about, because you know what they are - so you're asking the ministry and the service players have fully answered you. You now have a full picture of what happens with the previous NSRP's projects. On the basis of this full picture, then, I enter the Ministry's website and look at it - and I will give it to the Minutes - that priority projects are six left. So there's the answer you gave me and the site agrees. It is therefore six priority projects, which are 'at risk'. In reply to me, you tell me that the commitments are EUR 211,66 million and payments of EUR 168,84, that is, an absorption rate of 79,98 %, to figure out what is going on. On the site now has completely different numbers, it says 1,257.92m euros commitments and payments 360.03, i.e. an absorption rate of 28.60%. That's what your website says, I printed it to see it. First of all, now that you have the full picture, I would like the following clarifications. How many are the plays? What are the projects? We don't have much of a deal here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u21	Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u22	What percentage of absorption is and how will these, if necessary, be covered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u23	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. The timely question is very specific and I will remain on the specific question. I would remind you of the problem. The programming period of the previous NSRP has been closed. It was until 31-12. Finally, we absorbed about 99% of the old NSRP to complete these projects. What has not been completed is the national budget to come to an end. Every quarter we submit the quarterly progress report. In March, in the seventeenth quarterly report on progress towards the European Union, the situation of projects, the rate of implementation, the implications and the problems faced by some of these projects were analysed. Many technical meetings have been held with all stakeholders to speed up the implementation and resolution of the involvements. For some projects, despite the constant points of view, the problems could not be solved. The main objective of the Ministry remains to see for these projects what scope is available and how they can be completed. There are six of these projects, which in the report on 29-2-2016 are classified as ‘at risk’. I have five projects, which is the final list. I'll give him to you and testify to him in the Minutes. On the basis of this data, a project will end up, in the context of resolution, co-management of resources, due to considerable delays. This is the Racian-Stras Street, which will endure. Three projects should be completed by 2019 with national resources. I am referring to the construction of the Thessaloniki metro - which is committed to 79 million and 31 million - on the Thessaloniki - Idomeni railway line, with 29 million, and part of the suburban, on the Three Bridges, with 16 million. Two projects will be completed in 2016 with national resources. I am referring to the Zakynthos theatre, with 2,700,000, and to another project, which has already been put into integration orbit. In this context, there will be a burden on the national part of the Public Investment Programme of 160 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u25	Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u26	You were specific, Minister, and thank you. And in a reasonable period of time we will see exactly what will happen with the completion of the projects and whether what you said is in line with reality. And you see me a little hesitant. I have to confess. I said that the truth, the whole truth, and only the truth. I will also present a table and you will see - perhaps it is a procedural problem, you must make the table online - that it is completely different in terms of absorption rates and a much larger amount comes out. So this is our concern and the reason why this question is timely. However, since I have the time of my dentistry, I would like to say that in the absorption rates you generally have an ingenuity. You said too - and I hear it from Mr Tsipras and from all your members - that we are the first in Europe to absorb the NRP, we have absorbed the NRP by 100%. Here we are saying: 'The truth, the whole truth and only the truth'. And now you know why, when I hear that, I'm outraged. Because the reality, Minister, is that in 2015 6.8m euros were lost, which could have been absorbed by the NRP. And because I like being absolutely specific, I'm explaining the number. EUR 12 billion was available in the Greek economy by the end of 2015. The 4.2 billion was from the NSRF 2007-2013, 4.9 billion was from the frontal actions of the new NSRF and 2.9 billion from phasing projects. So what happened? You came and got all the cash. There was a risk of absorption of the NRV. For I would remind you that at the end of 2014, on our own government, that is, the rate of absorption was at 85% and went 5% in the semester. So there was no question of getting to the absorption rate. So what happened when you wiped off the cash? It was necessary as an emergency measure for the European Commission to give us the early disbursement of 5% of the percentage. I mean, he gave us 5.2 billion in the last three months. That is how we have 100% absorption, not the other countries, which are not financed with 100% of the budget in the ESRB. So the result is number 6.8 to come out as I told you, that is, 12 billion minus 5.2 billion. Because it is good to look at the future, because what I have just told you is a lie, which you say over time about the absorption rate, because it is not complete and it is not right, I want you to clarify something else. We have heard from you, from Mr. Haritsis, for some time now that they will fall from the NSRF 8 billion in the Greek economy this year. The Prime Minister yesterday I heard him at SETE said 9 to 12 billion. He told us that the 6.2 billion is from the ESRB. And all this in the second half of 2016. Mr. Drasakis told us about 9 billion. I don't see the billions, Minister, I must confess to you. What I see is a proclamation with four actions, which are from the ENPANEC, EUR 370 million, which is still running and I do not even see advances being disbursed. I am listening to Mrs Jackson, who has announced something about later, which is EUR 170 million. You said something at a press conference about some infrastructure projects, which from what I looked at in the tables - so that you do not think we are not attending - are transported projects and phasing projects. I mean, it's nothing new, but you didn't mention it because of the negotiation. I find it hard to find how they will fall into the real economy from the NSRF 8 or 9 or 12 billion in the next six months. So, if we're not here, would you tell us anything about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u27	Mrs Asmakopoulou, you also have a timely question as a Parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u28	You didn't want to place specifically on the cutter before. Do you, however, want to say a word about the major road projects on which these publications exist, that at the moment they are in danger of falling out and asking our country for EUR 4 billion? Because this is also a ESDP theme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u30	Mrs Asimakopoulou, no one can question the fact that in 2015, a difficult financial year and while voices said that the money would not be used to close the old NRP, the government had a great success. He absorbed the funds, reached 100% and the way you said, but this was the Greek Government's request in July 2015, such as the Greek Government's request to an agreement - and it was satisfied - was the increase in the advance payments for the next ESRB from 7% to 14%. So we have achieved two exceptionally positive measures, but success remains and is not a question of doubt, because the elements of the previous NRP have been made public by the Commission. It's not ours, it's not a matter of any accounting, it's just data. I would remind you that in the course of 2015 absorption in the second half of 2015, and especially in the last quarter of the year of resources, which reached 5.6 billion, was indeed a very big achievement. No one thought that this would happen without an extension of the old NSRP. We did it. We did not ask for an extension, considering that this procedure can be completed. I repeat that the results are absolute facts, since the Commission has made public the absorption and integration it had in the previous NSRP. Now, about the situation in the new ESDP. As you know, this year the Public Investment Programme, together with the resources of the NRP, is increased compared with last year. We overthrowded the old, previous situation, in which every year the Public Investment Plan was a privileged cut-off place. We, therefore, have increased the Public Investment Programme together with the resources of the NSRP and have registered some 6.7 billion for this year. Last year I mentioned it - I forgot and wanted to highlight it - the Public Investment Programme increased during 2015 compared to the budget of 250 million, precisely because other factors improved 5%. This year we have given the Public Investment Programme. It is at this level and there is also the whole range of additional resources, coming from various sources, which increase this size even more. So the funding and forecasts for the whole of the tools, development laws and other financial instruments, which are starting or starting now, form an image of imprinting, which reaches these figures, which you have insinuated for this year, of 9 billion. I would remind you that we take into account the money and flows that come from or are made by other development institutions and banks, the European Investment Bank, EBRD and other development institutions, which have currently committed budgets with investment funds for Greece. We are optimistic, then, that with sizes of 9-10 billion, which have this source of funding - we are not talking about private financing for private banks or other sources - we will have a good footprint, a good result for the use of investment funds in 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u31	We will now discuss the fifth under number 798/18-4-2016 a topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on non-help loans. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. We voted a few months ago on L.4354/2015, where, in Article 9(3), Mr. Stathakis was nominated by what non-performing loans are protected and which are not protected. Non-protected loans consisted of large loans from large companies, large business groups and those connected with residence but not the first - from the second and the bottom. In this respect, there was liberation. As for the rest - in other words, consumer, first-time, business that was given to small and medium-sized enterprises - there was a commitment by 15 February 2016, so that the government would have made a solution until then. Since then we have voted for a series of postponements, last Thursday - and we voted for it because we were never given the explanation why - and the latter takes the time until 15 June. So until 15 June - and we supported this - an extension of consumer protection - and the cards in there - housers with first residence and loans to small and medium-sized enterprises. Since then, there have been a series of questions of our own and struggles, journalists, but above all parties and politicians, addressed to the Minister for Information where the negotiation is going and what is the point, namely, where we, as other parties, have to put back and where we have to be quiet that something is going well. It was a contempt for the Minister. He could not, because he obviously has his runs within and outside Greece, but has a series of State Secretarys. We were protesting about it. Why didn't he send a State Secretary, a government member - not the Ministerial Council - to a member of a ministry's collective leadership? He must know that in these days, when we could not as Ministers, the State Secretarys took the file - they had, had no competence - and respected the House. Exceptionally, a strict exception, there would be a timely question that wouldn't be answered. We now arrive on the eve - if it is the solution to the matter, the Minister will tell us - and we have no idea. But we have, Minister, another Minister, the Minister for Finance, a clarification. I'm saying a piece of the letter and a piece of the words. He said that everything is being released - this will be the regulation - in addition to some related loans linked to collateral, mortgage, first home supplementation, but which do not exceed EUR 140,000 by the end of 2017 and then also freely. The question is: Is this clarification true and correct? It's the first and the main question. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I close with the second question which is this: Is it true that there are thoughts from you or from the other side that includes the loans provided? We are talking now about red-green. Is it true or is it not true and the dialogue is paradoxical and irrelevant?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u33	Finish, Mr. Loverdo. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u34	And finally, any arrangement is included in the weekend's draft law? Or isn't it part of it and we'll go later? Because the extension by June 15th puts our minds on the fact that he'll come later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u36	Let's start with the last one. All the issues about red loans are included in the current bill this week. With regard to the second point, I would remind you that the negotiation was starting at a starting point - from the institutions - for complete liberalisation and 'green' and'red' loans, as is the case in all European countries, since this market, namely the provision of loans and non-banking institutions, is the norm in European countries. We have from the outset defended, on the basis of the December agreement, the existence of a strong protection framework for the first residence, which we have achieved by changing the legislation on first residence and protecting 25% with state support and subsidies for the poorest households and 35% of households in the intermediate zone, in which there is a strong degree of protection. Secondly, we have liberalised business loans on the basis of the December legislation, but at the same time we have formulated a regulatory framework on how companies are authorised and under the regime, which forms a regulatory framework, which meets the criterion of being a market, which will operate with very strong rules under the Bank of Greece. Thirdly, there is the escalation of a strong code of conduct for banks, which will include the reasonable living costs of a household, and which will be a guide to banks, to determine the instalments on the basis of the actual possibility of repayment of a debtd household and a number of other measures, such as the establishment of a General Secretariat for the Management of Private Debts and 30 loan information centres across Greece, in order to support borrowers in the new context, which is being formed. So we have formulated this data on the basis of the legislation of December. What you said, three categories of loans, housing, small and medium-sized enterprises and consumer, were also under discussion for the next round of negotiations. What was achieved after the negotiations - I repeat the positions of the institutions on the other hand were talking about total liberalisation in all categories of loans - and our main objective was to suspend for a period until early 2018 the sale of 'green' and'red' loans, linked to the first residence, not only the houses in the first place, but also the entire small and medium-sized business loans and consumer loans, which are linked to the first residence. So in the three categories we have: first, housing loans, EUR 140,000 of objective value. No other criterion. With an objective property value of EUR 140,000, 93% of the housing loan is covered. I repeat, 93%. Secondly, a link to the first home of all micro-enterprises, micro-enterprises, consumer and other loans, on which the first residence has been guaranteed. That's the basic deal. I told you it would be legislated this week. At the same time, there will be additional legislation on how this framework works. Let me remind you here that the way this market operates depends on the regulatory framework. This is very important. We are approaching, taking into account the most regulated markets currently in existence at European level, incorporating better practices that ensure that there are no negative phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor. Please try to be within time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. So with the intervention - the Minister's reply, the National Representation now knows that the draft law, which will come in the next few hours, days in the House and, at any rate, this week, will be passed, including the regulations on'red' and 'green' loans. That's the first. Secondly, it has already been said by the Minister - and I mentioned it - on 'green' loans. The criticism so far has been true. Thirdly, the Minister confirmed that the things that have been put into Mr Tsakalotou's mouth - or he has written about them - regarding what is released from 1 January 2018 and what has been protected until then, that is to say, only those linked to a guarantee, a mortgage, an addition of first residence of up to EUR 140,000, is within the framework of the agreement that the government has made. So from now on, Minister, we are waiting for the draft law. And we expect - beyond our own debate today, which is detectable on our part - and from you and from the opposition, the Democratic Alliance and the other parties, thoughts and proposals, and obviously criticism. Because we do not forget - you obviously first, but then all of us - that you belong to that political party, whose slogan was 'no house in the hands of a banker' and so on. And what you did not say four years on this matter and what you said - not in person, but all together - before the September elections and what SYRIZA colleagues who went out to the media and Parliament until yesterday. I would like to make two remarks - a prelude to thoughts that we will make, also in our fight against this issue, when the draft law comes to committee and to plenary. Firstly, with regard to development issues, from which we are all waiting - and those who lose their businesses and those who lose their homes and one - the whole world knows and has realised that magicians are no longer there, but development solves problems. Or there is no growth and problems are not solved. Tell me a government that's in a slow motion and development, is it thinking something about the bankruptcy? Would you combine it with a change in the country's bankruptcy law? Will there be a second chance for the poor? Tens of thousands of people are in financial delight. I'm not talking about the sabotages. These are the codes and legislation and criminality. I'm talking about the others. Will there be a parallel arrangement for bankruptcy law, for its change and for the economic policy of the second opportunity for people? That's the one. Secondly, are you thinking of making a General Secretariat, or did you refer to someone who exists, and I don't understand? Will you make a new General Secretariat on these matters? Again a state to solve us problems? It turns out with the state you don't solve problems. Another thing is to transform a piece of it or give it a responsibility. Are you going to make a new state? Is that what you said or I'm misunderstood? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirdly and finally - and I have closed, Mr President - I want to know, Mr Minister - and I think that this must be a proper method of political work of government, but also of parliament - on the basis of the arrangements you have introduced to the House and the majority Members of Parliament have voted on the loans of large companies and groups, as well as on loans linked to housing, but not the capital, if there is application. On what level has there been implementation? Was there an interest in this side of the business market? Is there any practice to assess it as positive or negative in the meantime? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u39	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u40	Well, to be clear. I think that what the government had committed itself to in relation to first residence. That was our commitment. We do not want to see any phenomenon like what you imply. And the regulatory framework was adopted in December with 60% protection of the first residence and the suspension of housing loans and all associated loans, I repeat, at 93% level, ensure that no Greek households will find themselves in this situation that you have implied of divestment, auctioning or anything else. That is exactly what the government was targeting, and that is what we pursued and achieved in this negotiation. Now, on the second issue, the bill includes what is going to happen with business loans, micro-enterprises, medium-sized and large enterprises, especially those that have multiple debts to the banks, public and insurance institutions. The Law Treasury was the first piece of legislation, which had been built to look for this great category of businesses. A regulatory framework is now introduced in this draft law for how all companies irrespective of size which have multiple debts to these three categories, how an institution and a mechanism is introduced and a process for the simultaneous regulation of these debts, and I repeat, for small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises, obviously for sustainable ones, for those which have a strong potential for sustainability and whose joint regulation will make it easier for all of these companies to proceed to the next day. I say this because we have already had the debate on general development, but - as you know - this is an extremely important field, which can unblock a system which, as it is today, is fully blocked. Red loans to banks are too much. This must be reduced quickly. There must be a mechanism to facilitate all sustainable businesses to make those arrangements that will enable them to have a strong development, a strong growth in the years ahead. So there is a part of this bill as well and we will be given the opportunity to discuss these details for a long time. I shall conclude by saying that the issue of business loans and businesses also includes the possibility offered to the banking system itself in order to speed up the same without transferring loans, business or other, to third parties, without necessarily having to give them to loan management companies, not the securities - and this is the third structure they bring - to restructure their own loans, loans to businesses and consumers. So far the banks have had huge constraints on their ability to restructure these loans. There is now a system of taxation and institutionalism, which now allows banks to have greater flexibility of movement, to be able to restructure with greater degrees of freedom and with better effect and for the benefit of all sides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister. It is known in this House that the following questions are not debated as a result of an impediment to the competent ministers and will be redefined for discussion at a next meeting: The first under number 851/10-5-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Athens, New Democracy, Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the change of attitude of the Greek Government to the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The second under number 855/10-5-2016 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Finance concerning the Greek Vehicle Industry (‘ELVO S.A.’). Also, due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Amanatidis, the first question under number 852/10-5-2016 is not discussed with a topical question by MP Halkidiki of the New Democracy Mr. Georgiou Vayonas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the unscrupulous fallen of the land of the 40s and the current immoral demand of the Albanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Also, due to the absence of the relevant Minister for Foreign Affairs, the third question under number 854/10-5-2016 is the first-round question of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, Georgiou Lambroulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of compensation to tree farmers in Larissa for their production destroyed by a recent glacier. Finally, it is not debated because of a blockade by the Member, the sixth under number 841/9-5-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Representation of the Greeks Mr Vassilis Kolkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the delay in the adoption of a joint Ministerial Decision, in accordance with Article 42(11) of the Treaty. 4280/2014 (VAT 159A), thus causing serious problems to farmers who have the use of brown parcels or to those who wish to exercise the relevant right. Now we will discuss the seventh under number 848/10-5-2016 topical question of the second-cycle question of the Halkidiki Parliament's Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Iglezi to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the preparation of the forest fire risks. Mrs. Igleze, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the anti-nuclear period has begun since 1 May, and the state mechanism, I imagine, should now have completed the procedures for protecting against possible forest fires. It is clear that the prevention and repression of forest fires does not only involve the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, as there are other ministries involved, but it is his responsibility to develop and design forestry policy. It is a fixed position not only mine but also of SYRIZA that prevention is the most important measure to avoid forest fires. It is more important to eliminate the risks that cause them than to try to suppress them when they take them out. For this reason it is important that both valid and timely measures are taken to protect forests. In particular, I am referring to the adoption of directives and technical specifications for works and works on fire protection, forests and forest land, as well as to the financing of projects and actions, which are considered to be a priority for anti-nuclear protection. Furthermore, the development of fire risk protection programmes, the care to finance the maintenance and cleaning of the forest road network and fire-fighting zones in areas identified as high risk, the preparation of forestry road projects for forest ecosystem management purposes are very important for the prevention of forest fires. You also know very well that climate change and the invasion of flammable forest species into mountain forests have an impact on the evolution of forests in our country. Hazardous to ignition areas are widened and the duration of the fires is increased due to prolonged periods of drought. The treatment of forest fires under these conditions is therefore very difficult, and it is therefore appropriate to invest more in prevention than in repression for better results at a minimum comparative cost. Is the Minister responsible therefore asking: What is the distribution of resources to prevent forest fires during the current fire period? What is the design and preparation of forest fire prevention in the context of integrated management and protection of forest ecosystems?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Chironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Commissioner, I share the concern and the topicalness of the question. As we all know, over the last few years we have spent years of dry land and even years in the spring we have had rain and, unfortunately, this year too. It is the worst because on the one hand the drought exacerbates the risk to large plants, such as trees and on the other hand, spring rain increases the fuel, with mono-annual plants, the ponds, which you know become "silicon warehouses" when dried during the summer. Last year, for the second consecutive year, we gave the appropriations very timely. This appeared in the last anti-nuclear period, with the exception of two fires, one in the Hymitos and the other in Naples, for which I must say that at 3.00 o'clock in the morning, from PPC Column, in a difficult area, it was impossible to operate planes or much more terrestrial forces. When the crackdown began, it was really human impossible. It was so difficult weather conditions - we lost an airplane, as you know, thankfully without death - that the fire was very large before the sun even rises. Despite these two exceptions, I think the year went much better than the previous ones, precisely because we had very early coordination and very early funding. This year - to be specific - we have 1 854 000 euros from the Green Fund, we expect 1 865 000 euros from the Public Investment Programme to be signed, we have the lion's share - that is always the way - the EUR 16,890,000 from the Ministry of Interior in the fourteen municipalities and, of course, we expect the 4,500,000 euros, which will be signed immediately for overtime. Apart from that, we need to put the burden on exactly what you said, on better coordination. There have already been meetings on better coordination. I should like to say that several comments have been made. For example, we are waiting for the market - I hope we can prevent this year's - for the twenty-two-two-double vans, which will be able to carry back, if necessary, a tank with which the services will of course be provided. We have a great deal more to talk about even the institutional framework. Let me take a simple example: last year we found that there is a huge lack of staff that can lead the work vehicles because the services have been devastated. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] In a minute, I shall conclude, Mr President. We say this year, then, that volunteers or professionals who do not belong to the wider public sector should be allowed to drive and operate these vehicles so that we can have multiple human resources. In other words, we have professional drivers - operators, but they are not public and are not insured to drive public vehicles. Such claws must be resolved. Also, for the first time we'll use telematics. We will have surveillance in at least some areas of satellites, but also in large-scale cameras, and we will also have some drones so that we can prevent them as far as possible. I know that at the moment the public machine because of the memorial and enormous deforestation is dramatically understood, but with these few forces last year we have achieved the best, and I think this year we will do well, because we are all convinced that by better coordination we are multiplying the results.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u45	Mrs. Igleze, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u46	Mr Minister, thank you very much for your reply, but also for the information you have given us. It is very important that the state mechanism ensures timely protection of the country's natural wealth. Unfortunately, I have heard that 'we are waiting and waiting'. Let's make sure we don't wait any longer. We've entered the anti-nuclear period. The money - not only depends on you but also on the Treasury - must be given where it needs to be given to start protecting the country's forests. It is also very important to serve the services. We cannot count on such serious issues to volunteers. Also important are the development of new technologies for this purpose. I heard about drones and that's really very important. But I also know from personal experience, as a forestist, that the phenomena of signing contracts for fire protection works at the end of August and September are not easily eliminated and are still being observed. Rural surveillance and surveillance of the area are important to be financed, but I believe that sustainable management of our forests is the best prevention measure. Multi-purpose forestry, forest conservation as a natural ecosystem and capacity to produce and supply multiple goods and services to humans, maintains the multi-dimensional character and biodiversity of the forest and contributes more effectively to social well-being and development. The main threat of degradation and destruction of forests is in particular fragmentary and unscheduled intervention in forest ecosystems. For this reason, a clear and structured forestry policy is needed from the state side. And this policy will clearly have to be reflected in an adequate and interdisciplinaryly staffed Forest Service, a service that can respond to sustainable forest management, but also take all the necessary measures and develop the actions that will develop and protect forest ecosystems. The institutionalised cooperation of the Forest Services and the Firefighting Agency is also needed, so that it can be better managed for human resources and for forest fires to be dealt with effectively, based on the criteria set by forest fires. The cooperation of forest services and local authorities is crucial for the existence of proper prevention and repression of forest fires. The early guarantee by the Ministry of Environment and Energy of funding for the forest protection projects carried out by the TAs is important, but also the timely implementation of these measures by the TAs and the allocation of all these funds for the purpose of protecting against forest fires is crucial. The coordination of all these services, all of these different ministries, is what we need. Does this concern your Ministry regarding the model of management of forestry services and the model of prevention and repression of forest fires currently being applied? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Finally, I refer to an issue that I am not tired of talking at all times, but there is no progress at all. This is the preparation and implementation of integrated management plans for all the forest complexes of the country, the known management studies. Today there are no management plans for 80% of the forest complexes of the Greek forests. The results of this situation, except for the deprivation of the economy from significant resources and the significant deterioration of the environment, are also the inability to protect unmanaged forests. The most effective protection, Minister, from fires is the sound, scientific and integrated management of the forest ecosystem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Chironis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I will agree with you and you know that we have started institutional changes, such as the new Forest Cooperatives Act, but also in the new NRP, we have included such management studies, so that we can finally get rid of running behind the facts. So I think there's no disagreement there. It is the government's will to move precisely in this direction. I do not want to fail to pay tribute - I take the opportunity of asking - to the fire brigades last year, which had a good cooperation with forest services. This year at a meeting we had precisely this object, the optimisation and participation of forest services in all phases, and the prevention and detection of the risk days, but also, of course, the time of extinguishation. So I think we will have the best coordination this year. I would like to point out something, however, because you said earlier about what we are waiting for. Indeed, most of the funds, of which I have mentioned, are already disbursed and are ready to be used. We said that we had the most early year of last year and this year it will be even more time-consuming in terms of utilisation. I would remind you, however, that Greece's economic framework imposes one year's contracts, which are the absolute irrationality. As quickly as we wish to make a competition and an investment, when we start specialising in Genarris - and we do not have what is self-evident and what is true of co-financed, that is, three years and five years of contracts - we are forced to make the tenders in May and finally to enter the contractor in August for a forestry maintenance. You know it and I know it. It would be illegal for it to be sooner. It cannot be done under administrative law. The only solution is multi-annual contracts. In Greece, we do not have multi-annual contracts. It is a request I have put to the KYSPOPOs to discuss, so that at last contracts in projects which are already renewed every year, such as fire-fighting and maintenance works, can be multiannual. One point that you have raised and with which I fully agree is the use of biomass. To enter, finally, the cooperatives to use the biomass so that they can exploit and bring the forest to life. Of course - and here, without questioning what you said, I agree with you that the log is forests - that volunteerism also gives valuable work and that volunteerism must be extended to Greece. In the rest of the world volunteering is an important pillar and is not a pillar of morality. There are countries such as the United States, where there are whole firearms maintained by volunteers and not just one party. This does not mean, of course, that the scientists and those who will take the lead in the project, especially the prevention, are not foresters, forest guards, foresters and forestists. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So I think we started better last year and this year I think we will go even better, at least in prevention. However, with regard to what you mentioned in your speech about the real major institutional changes, I think we will see their results in the coming years, as it is impossible to carry out them in a few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. We are going to the debate on the second under number 853/10-5-2016 topical question of the first question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the auctioning of the new airport in Kastelis Crete. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u50	As you said, Mr President, the topical question concerns the issue of the international airport in Kastelli, Heraklion, Crete, which, as a proposal and an idea began in 2003 and some years later, matured at technical level. From 2010, which I think was the first attempted tender, until 2014, there were amendments to the technical pre-study, in order to adapt to reality the interests of manufacturers and, more generally, of people who would take part in the tenders, according to the so-called ‘remarks’. And, of course, it is also foreseen with the last postponement of 6 May - five, I think, during your term of office, Mr Minister - that the possibility of supplementing, modifying and incorporating comments and other elements which would make the tender more desirable in terms of the technical subject. Because the financial data are data and are also dependent on the offer of each company or consortium. The question is whether, on the 27th of the month, you have postponed the call for tenders, there is an estimate from the Ministry or even certainty - that would be better - that there will be interest and that the technical problems that have been observed in the previous period will be solved so that we can see a number of issues resolved. Minister, as you know - the municipality of our region has informed you there - the world feels hostage, like all the actors, because there should be a final result in this effort to see where they invest, where they do not invest, what people do and what they do not deal with. That's the one thing. The second point is that it has already affected - I think some of the problems have been overcome this year, but there is still - the activity of the current 'Nikos KAZADZAKIS airport', which lifts a large load and there must be no neglect. The third issue is that some of the people from Heraklion have already started and say: 'Do we not have to visit the Minister, the ministers in general and the Prime Minister in general and raise the issue of not holding a tender in order not to create the new international airport, but to upgrade the current one?' There are some who have already started from the Municipality of Heraklion and should have already bothered you. These are the issues. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u51	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for the timely question. It's also reasonable, so, by the way, I'd like to give you a general briefing. When I went to the Ministry, we found this project with specific hindrances - if you want to delay, and in a certain way of auctioning, the public-private partnerships that we wanted to change. I will then become more specific as to why we wanted to change him. We wanted to change him because there was no connection between the work and the local society, as we understand it. The first thing we have done, therefore, was to change quite a few terms of tendering in another logic, in another direction. Who are they? We changed the amount of compensatory benefits in local society and from 1% it became 2.5%. I believe that this is in a very positive direction. We changed the prediction that there would be a place to build an exhibition centre that would manage the Greek state and local government, that is, locally, for the exhibition and the promotion of local products in Crete. We have made a commitment - and this commitment is true, and I am presenting it to the House - that on the board of directors of the company to be set up for the public-private partnership, the mayor of the municipality in question will be involved in hosting these facilities. We also pledged that there will be funding to come out of a study of a comprehensive spatial and urban planning in the region, so that we do not have anarchist structure and anarchist development of activities around the new airport. The rest we have changed are technical issues relating to the architecture of the building and the committees that had to be done to ensure that there is no delay, but also to respect the architecture of Crete, also issues with energy saving and the energy upgrading of the building and much more. Of course, the most important are the rating issues for the tender, i.e. the criteria for selecting the contractor scheme for the partnership. The most important thing, in my opinion, is that the public's financial contribution can be provided by the contractor scheme. We consulted the tender documents and to complete this process we accepted the comments... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, your tolerance for a while. It is very positive what Mr Kegeroglu asks. So, as far as you are concerned, six groups of companies are interested in the information. The five participated in the consultation and most of these schemes due to these changes have called for the postponement of the closing date of the tender to be able to cooperate with the banks that finance them, to assess all these elements that we have changed. We, Mr Kegeroglou, do not want to slap into a competition and reduce competition in the work. I think you agree with that too. It must be for a month, as has been given an extension, - instead of being on the end of May on 27 June, as they have requested - we must give the necessary time to prepare as many who want to participate as possible, so that we can have more benefits for both the citizen of Crete and for the interests of the Greek public. That is why we agreed to go about a month behind the tendering of the project. The tender will take place on 27 June. As you will see in the service note, right now the consultation of the technical consultant and the services is over...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u53	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u54	No, no. I'll be done. You're probably not gonna need a dentist. The comments and the way in which the tender documents will finally come out so that, in May, the competition will be opened and on 27 June, we will have finished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u55	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I had tabled ten proposals in 2010, when the debate on the issue of the auction started on substance. Of course, apart from the issue of compensation, the subject of the exhibition centre was also accepted, namely the proposal on the promotion of local products. This is very important. Once he gets more dynamic through the new notice, that'll be good. Regarding the issue of spatial planning, unfortunately because there was a differentiation in the attitude of some municipalities before 2010, which were separate municipalities, the PLO was not possible. I think that the FAW is a necessary prerequisite - I am talking about the FAW, not more generally about spatial planning, that is to say, the level of planning - because that will enable the development of the area on the basis of certain rules and respect for the characteristics of the wider area that is agricultural. Of course, it will also enable other activities to be developed, but in a way that respects the environment, but also the people themselves, the place itself. It is very important that today you have an estimate that on 27 June the tender will eventually take place. From the interest of companies, I think this will be more than sure. Of course, there are some questions. Since, from the outset, you wanted specific things to change and improve - and, as I say, there may be others that have not seen the Office's or anyone else's eye, to appear along the way and to do with the study, because now I think this is a premeditator - why did four postponements take place in order to do this and did not have a good postponement for a year or six months, for example, to have this proposal completed? I say this because there is constant frustration among people who say 'but the tender is still postponed, it is still not doing the work'. This is a very important issue and I therefore ask you what assessment you have of 27 June. From what you have said, I believe that you are almost certain that there will be a tender. If you are able, in fact, I would like this given for the evaluation then and for the signature of the contract - with the good - if you can specify the timetable or if you plan a timetable for when the final studies must be completed, and when the projects begin. This is something very important to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u57	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Kegeroglu, there were no five postponements while I was at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u59	"Four" I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u60	As long as that government is, it was done, if I remember correctly, three. One has been made by the previous government. They were the first months that we had taken over when it became the first. We postponed. This is essentially the second one. The second thing I want to say is that the changes we have made have to do with the experience of the remaining 'current' concessions in the country, so that we do not have the same delays or claims again by the contractors, but also by the concessionaires and the public interest is protected. You are right that spatial planning should be made at the level of the Observatory. You are absolutely right in that. However, this has to do with the procedures that will be to run by the local government organisations. I think they want to, too. The second thing I did not do in my first speech is that the citizens and the urban authorities have also been informed that it is the region and the government's commitment that this work will be done. So it has stopped, the issue of building permits has been suspended. The expropriation procedures have begun. The project has been incorporated into the practice of the cabinet in Article 7a, to make expropriations very quickly as a work of national importance. Unfortunately, the strike of lawyers does not allow us to set dates. Of course, the most important thing is that the cost of archaeological work and some accompanying projects has been predicted in the negotiations that we made with the European Investment Bank. My opinion is - and I have said this before - that I am not going to make time-consuming forecasts in relation to how it will develop, but we will not have delays in licensing procedures, we will not have delays in expropriation, we will have no delays in archaeological work. On 27 June the auction will take place in the summer. I hope that the public services, which we have, will respond and sign immediately after the final agreement, so that Crete - but also Greece - will have an international airport, a major airport, which will serve both the needs of Heraklion and Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u61	Thank you. We are going to the first with number 37844/267/8-3-2016 question and request that Parliamentary II Athens, Georgios Amyrias, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the government's delay in promoting actions and developing broadband, depriving 1.5% of GDP. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, every time she has the need of her own technological tools. In the early 1990s, I was a young editor in the economic paper "EXPERS" and then there became a great revolution when we were brought back to fax. In the first decade of 2000 a major revolution, for example in tourism, was air-conditioning. You didn't close a room if he didn't have an air conditioner. Today, in 2016, it is not just a desire, but a need for all Greeks to have a reliable and fast internet. But here, in relation to broadband and its penetration into Greek reality, we have many delays. According to a study by the International Telecommunications Association, ITU, only 68% of Greek households have broadband access, while the European Union average is 85%. I mean, we're way behind. A second element, which is the most important, based on the same study that is a common assumption to international things, is that there is a strong correlation between broadband penetration and GDP growth. In other words, when broadband penetration is growing by 10%, it automatically leads to an increase in GDP of 1,5 points. This means better paid people, more jobs for skilled personnel. So I ask you, on the basis of the national broadband plan you presented as Ministry last June in the European Union, and you included twenty-two actions. What or how many, in any case, of these twenty-two actions have been completed in 2015? What's the reason for the delays for the rest? I shall raise a third and very important question, in my view. I would like to ask you, if the invitations from the managing authority of the projects "Publishing in one day", a digital economy, a digital project, a "Homeless Work" and a "Digital JEP" have been issued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u63	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much. Mr President, unfortunately, what we received for telecommunications in the country and broadband is something that was not customary in our country. In general, our country was in a very good position in relation to technological developments in the field of telecommunications and networks. I therefore think that what we did and that is why we cannot give up for delays, is that we tabled the New Generation National Broadband Access Plan in the summer of 2015, trying to cover many of the problems that had already been accumulated during the previous governments' term of office in the field of telecommunications. With this we are still fighting, not only us, but also those who are active in this area. If one reads the national broadband plan, one will easily understand that broadband infrastructure is not a self-contained asset but is a means of ensuring quality services to consumers and improving everyday life and improving the quality of life of citizens in general. If the regulatory framework for telecommunications does not move within that, then we have a problem and we have a problem as a society. This is much longer in the last two years, where the Greek telecommunications market has shown very strong signs of concentration and, in fact, we have only five companies operating in this area, with signs of even greater concentration of these services, and that is a problem. This means that we need a regulatory framework, which, on the one hand, supports private investment and, on the other, protects the consumer and ensures the greatest possible competition between individuals active in the relevant market. This is our government's goal. Below I'm going to testify to what we've done, so there won't be anything unanswered left. Mr President, I would like a little of your tolerance because the timely question has twenty-two points on what Parliament needs to be informed of. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] As far as I can see, there are twenty-two points you're asking. These twenty-two points are: Firstly, the incorporation of the directive on measures to reduce the costs of the installation of high-speed networks. We have set up a working group on this incorporation into national law and the updating of the legislative framework, on the granting of transit rights. The work of this group has been completed since the beginning of May and according to programming, it is expected to publish the relevant draft law on integration, so that we have the necessary consultation. Second theme. Mandatory adoption of a parallel installation of infrastructure. The EBRD co-installation regulation concerning telecommunications infrastructure facilities has already been adopted. In the context of the incorporation of the directive you mentioned in your previous question, the provisions of the regulation also extend to other infrastructures. Third theme. Recording and concession of public buildings for the installation of antenna systems. On 23 July 2014, the DEDDIE launched a pilot project - the meeting was not held in our Ministry - on the market of two hundred thousand smart cash. The budget is EUR 86 million. By 2018, the old clocks should have been replaced and replaced with seven million smart meters, which is to be completed by the end of 2016. The measurement of consumption will be made online and the meter will gather data every 15 minutes, which will be sent via PPC's mobile phone or network at a substation and will be sent from there to the central services of the TEDO. In the project notice, there is no provision for data transfer through other technologies, such as the use of fixed broadband infrastructure, in which the country had invested. Also on the third point I would like to say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u65	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, there are twenty-two points. And teratology and teratology to give me, that's not good enough. Honestly, it's not enough time. I'll try to encode them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u67	But what the Minister says is interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u68	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u69	Now in the Digital Register entered into the GIS in all public buildings, it must be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u70	Why don't you just tell me about the twenty-two points, Minister, can I have a basic word?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u71	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Minister. The sixth point is important: "Electronic interconnection in the Electronic Application System for Aerial Construction". The sixth point is also important: ‘Law on the regulation of telecommunications and public works matters’. Even the nineteenth point ‘Examination of tax reduction for mobile broadband services’. These, if you wish, refer to me, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u73	Good. I begin with the sixth point: “Electronic interconnection in the Electronic Application System for Aerial Construction (SILYA)”. This, as you know, is an electronic repository on the substance of the required authorisations and studies required to issue an antenna licence for mobile telephony. This, Mr Amyras, is unfortunately a repository, is not a licensing system and is in ETT. It has not worked as it had to function, namely to integrate all public services - if I remember the number correctly, it is from seven to nine - involved in the licensing of cherry systems and, in my opinion, it is completely wrong. We cannot, in other words, have legislation, which says that, since the responsible agency did not reply to me within sixty days, we consider this to be valid. We've got to do another thing. What we need to do is upgrade the SALYA. That is why we have contacted the telecommunications companies and they will finance it. Let's go - to connect to the question you've asked - on item sixteen. So in the draft law on public works and telecommunications...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u74	So, Mr. Amyras, and you won't need any dentistry, and the Minister won't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u75	I'll just be a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u76	We are planning to become a central electronic system for all the licenses, which will involve all public licensing services, so that there will be surveillance at many levels, because public services are late to give authorisation for what reasons? In order not to say any more public service and others, and to be within timetables. So neither the delays that we have from the public side have, nor the depreciation of the institutional framework, considering that if the public service does not respond in time, let alone be inside. We anticipate this and I believe that cooperation with telecommunications companies for this system is going well. I am calling for an extension of the thousands of antennas which have not yet been authorized to be financed by the telecommunications companies. We are examining with the Ministry of Finance the reduction of taxation for services not only of mobile broadband but of all new investments as the Prime Minister has announced. It will be for investments over 20 million. This means, however, that our country's telecommunications companies will also be changing Roots. They will not create those conditions for us to have a concentration on a few companies throughout the telecommunications sector. We should talk about this at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. Mr. Amyras, will you need a dentext?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u78	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for the first answer. After the debate and after the ETUC has been associated with several of these points, I would like to say that this is an independent principle in hibernation last year in February. What about this case? That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u79	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u80	You're absolutely right that he's in hibernation. She's been on hibernation for two reasons. The first is an institutional reason. The regulatory authority that must control public services cannot operate, in accordance with the national and European frameworks and legislation, if they create conditions of unfair competition in relation to one company compared to another, if they protect the citizen, ‘if, if, the same regulatory authority with independent functions has the authorisations. This is a trick of previous governments, so that they do not have responsibility for the ministries and the general secretariats. That is why the SALYA system upgraded and the competence for the licensing of antennas will be returned to the Ministry and the SETT will be called, as a regulator, to control the Ministry and the public services if they do their job properly and independently, as must be the role played by the regulators. However, since I am not hiding, Mr Amyras, I would like to tell you that the ETTF is on winter for other reasons. As you know, I have provided the prosecutor with the information on the DIGEA competition. As you know, he had fallen black and private TV channels and had asked the other members of the EITT because the President of the EITT had resigned, resigned and asked to resign, because the EITT was not a regulatory authority of an independent nature. It was a regulator, who had Vice-Chairman of the former Secretary-General for Telecommunications, the New Democracy, Mr Daskalaki. He had members of the Plenary Council of Ministers of the New Democracy. We have very big problems with the competition with DIGEA in relation to unfair competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u81	Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u82	We therefore believe that we should wait for the prosecutors' findings and then the regulatory authority should function as it should and be truly independent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELETERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall, nineteen students and students and four teachers attendants from the 3rd Municipal School of Arida Pellas. We welcome them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 23/17/22-3-2016 by the Members of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Plackotakis, Constantine Ah will be discussed. Karamanlis, Emmanuel Konsola, Ioannis Vroutsi, Charalambou Athanasios, Panagiotis Mitarakis, Athanasios Kavada, Christos Bukouros to the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the delay in the notice and implementation of the competition for infertile air services. He has the floor for the first time a member of the New Democracy Parliament, Mr. Ioannis Pakisotakis, for ten minutes. You have the floor, Mr Plakkatakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, forgive me for ruining the celebrity climate you and your government officials have had in the past week. I will land you in the grim reality experienced by the Greek people by your unforgettable and opportune policy. I am sorry to remind you of the reality of the situation that is disturbing and that in a methodical and systematic way you are hiding or trying to falsify through your government propaganda. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] Sadly, however, for you, despite your philanthropic efforts, the issue of the air connection of our barren islands is also present and requires immediate treatment. Our locusts are those who in these difficult periods for our homeland hold the Greek flag high and it is necessary that they should not be cut off from mainland Greece and that their quality and safety should not be jeopardised. Dear Minister, it is well known that on 31 March 2016, the contract for the execution of routes on so-called atrocious routes expired, due to your inability not to open the tender in time and within the time required for the next period. It is awkward that while you knew exactly what the procedures are due to the European Regulation number 1008/2008, the reopening of this tender is very well aware that it takes six months before the end of the existing contract. You and the competent civil aviation authorities have not taken any action in 2015 to address this issue. Minister, the procedure should have started this time ago. In any event, as of September 2015, you should start the procedure. As a result, you committed criminally, with the result that on March 2, 2016, you opened a typical contest for the proclamation of contractors of twenty-six barren lines for the period between 1-4-2016 to 3-9-2016 with a truly incredible originality that is not even encountered in third-world countries. In particular, on March 2, 2016, Minister, you launched a funny, literally, negotiation process characterising it as "extremely urgent". Watch out. You gave the time margin to candidate contractors for the submission of their tenders only within twenty-four hours. At the same time, you said and called the specific competition "international competition", when at the same time you deliberately excluded from the negotiation process any contractor other than the four existing contractors. In addition, the Director of the PSC, Mr Lingerakos, has notified the establishment of the Tender Assessment Committee not before the procedure was opened, as usual, but after its publication. Then what amazing happened? On 17-03-2016, you decided to extend for another six months the twenty-six existing air contracts against the total price of EUR 19.7 million. However, this decision has never been implemented but, of course, your announcements. Of course, very important issues arise, as well as the legitimacy of this process as well as its effectiveness in dealing with the major issue, such as the air link between the remote islands of our country. Why did that happen? Because after the objections raised by the Court of Auditors regarding the legality of the entire procedure, what did the Governor do? It has tacitly set out the decision taken on 17/03 and proceeded - take note of me - in a two-month, and instead of a two-month, tendering procedure as a whole for the twenty-six atrocious airline, it has been devised, i.e. it has adopted twenty-six separate decisions for each barren destination with two-month power. Furthermore, it is worth wondering that while the commander answered here in Parliament to a parliamentary question dated 19/02, he said that there is no possibility of extending the existing contracts after their expiry date on 31-03-2016, on 2 March what did he do? Call the airlines in closed negotiations to extend their contracts and pay attention to me. The decision to extend the existing contracts is unlawful and circumvents Regulation No 1008/2008, because the only option given in Article 16 of Regulation No 12, in the event of an exceptional need, is to choose a different airline for a maximum period of seven months. You tell me, Minister, where is the sudden event where, while you knew that this convention expires on 31/3, you did not take any action at all? Bearing in mind, Minister, that to date neither you nor the commander of the PSC have been chosen to inform anyone about this procedure, I wonder: Do you not know that this procedure is lame? Minister, I ask you directly. Are these your methods done under your approval or your ignorance? If you have just been unaware of the benefits of your commander, what have you done to restore legality? As far as we know, you have done nothing. And, indeed, tonight is a first-class opportunity to officially inform both the Greek Parliament and the Greek people, why you have moved in secret and irregularly. I do not want to believe, Minister, that you serve any other purposes, but does this practice also belong to the unprecedented logic of SYRIZA and its officials? Minister, days ago you proceeded with the publication of a preliminary draft invitation to tender to submit tenders for the twenty-eight fertile air services of the period from 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2020. This preliminary draft records your intention to reduce a significant number of routes to the islands of the Dodecanese, the Aegean Sea and the various regions of the country, overlooking the fact that the remote areas of our country are the ones that will eventually be most affected in terms of their economic and tourism development. You do not, of course, take into account the fact that in today's era, where the global economic crisis dominates, isolated and remote areas of our country will eventually be irreversibly affected by this choice. Minister, you continue your government's disastrous work and with the choices you condemn the isolation of these areas. You also ignore - and I want you to notice this - how vital it is for the inhabitants of these regions to have frequent air connections to mainland Greece, today that we are facing challenges from Turkey, which are many open issues, and our national sovereignty and security are being tested. At the same time, Minister, you said here in the House, in reply to a timely question from my fellow Member, Mr Stamatis, that you would restructure the status quo for barren lines. I would like you to tell us this evening if you intend to restructure the current regime. According to what you said in February in this timely question, you had spoken about seasonality, passenger traffic of each line, about separating the grant of the permanent inhabitants of the barren areas. Finally, Minister, what did you take into consideration and proceeded to this competition? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I would also like to emphasise and make this clear that the New Democracy is not opposed to restructuring the existing regime. Of course, it is enough not to ignore factors of the utmost national importance, such as the development and tourism policy of the outermost regions and issues relating to our national sovereignty. Furthermore, another point I would like to raise, Minister, concerns the reduction of the budget, because you intend to reduce the State subsidy from EUR 45 million to EUR 12 million. The questions are two. Why EUR 12 million? Where does the reduction of the State expenditure from EUR 45 million to EUR 12 million occur, also taking into account the loss of State revenue following the concession of the fourteen regional airports? I would really like you to let us know where you will draw resources from for financing the barren air lines. The most important thing is whether you can guarantee us that, in future, the financing of the barren air lines will continue, or you will once again invoke the economic policy deadlocks and the requirements of the third memorandum you are applying, to limit the level of the required budget to a minimum. Minister, at the end of May, the two-month extension of the existing contract and the risk of our fareless islands being kept out of air in the summer is present. The European Regulation - as I said a little earlier - provides for six-month procedures. There is also a question of the redesign and update of the routes. I would like you to answer clearly and clearly as well with a timetable: why did you not proceed in time to the tender notice, although you knew that the existing contracts expire on 31 March? Are you going to give a two-month extension to the existing contract after it expires on 31 May? And the important question is: What will you do, Minister, if the Court of Auditors is to reblock the procedure? We're waiting for a clear answer. Do you also commit that by 30 September 2016 the tender procedure will be completed? And if, Minister, it's not done, what are you going to do? What are your intentions of redesigning the barren air lines? And on what criteria do you intend to increase the fare on some barren lines? On what criteria? Because here we are particularly seeing excessive increases in fares prices during the summer season. And you know very well, Minister, that the creation of the barren air lines was obviously to improve access to our locusts. Of course, it was also to benefit tourism and economic development - hence high fares during the summer season - but above all, it was to link our locusts to mainland Greece. Do you have a rationalization study in your hands, Mr. Minister, or did it all happen in your legs and hands? We expect, Minister, concrete and clear answers. The New Democracy will be present in any study, restructuring or rationalisation and, if necessary, in any case, what we are interested in is to continue the interconnection of our outermost regions with mainland Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u86	The second has the floor in the series of questions from the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Consolas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the timely question we had tabled together with other Members of the New Democracy Parliament is unfortunately two months later when it was submitted to the National Representation. This, of course, also says a lot, and Mr Placiotakis has rightly described these reasons why it may not have been discussed so far. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that this debate is not taking place for opposition reasons. Get away from us that logic. And I must remind you that at least I and many other colleagues here from all the wings are elected by island regions as well as myself. The Dodecanese is an insular area, most of the polynesian, isolated and inconvenience. So this logic is moving at a different level, and our motives are not selfish, nor appropriate policy. On the contrary, Minister, Mr President, we want to contribute to a fruitful dialogue, to have a positive contribution, so that we can combine a framework that is essential and sustainable for the air services, particularly when it comes to subsidised lines that the country very much needs. You know, the government is taking on board - and I have seen it in public terms by you, Minister, but also by other government officials - that the amount of the subsidy for feral air services is reduced by 50%. But, Minister, it is only natural that when 70% of routes are reduced in some cases, perhaps more, but at least 50% on average, you should take the costs for barren lines down. After all, it is unreasonable that there is no specific framework in which the government should have moved too early. Allow me, Minister, to take things from the beginning. For sixteen months you've been a government. You knew that twenty - six airline contracts were over. In 2015, however, you did not achieve the minimum, that is to say, to be able to launch the procedures and that the competitive process can proceed. It is a question, Minister, that you must answer today. Minister, on 2 March you have notified us of the opening of negotiations with the contractors. You did this on March 2, 2016, and on March 31, the contract expires. And it became what Mr. Plakkatakis said before. What do you mean? In fact, you have set a deadline of 31 March, but on 3 March, that is, twenty-four hours later, the procedure was closed. We have noted in good time, Minister, the issue of legality. That is why you must answer. All of this, Mr Minister, would have been avoided if you had followed your own officials and personally the competitive procedure, with thirteen months at your disposal. It didn't happen. At the same time, of course, Mr Minister, a rational procedure should have been set up with regard to the model of rationalisation for the service of fertile air services, which has not been carried out. You, of course, claim it has been done. But, Minister, it has probably not been done, because it is only five that you are going to close a procedure such as - for the continuation of this subsidised line, but also for subsidized posts. I would like in detail on this point, Minister, to allow me only, according to the announcement of yours, to formulate a few figures and to find out if from all the annual frequencies on each island of the Dodecanese - not to go to the other islands, there are colleagues who will develop possible - for the application so far in relation to the new island... [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Mr President, if you have any kindness, because it is very important. Besides, I don't think anyone's gonna argue about taking a little more time. Athens - Astypalaea, Minister, the imposition so far has been two hundred sixty-eight, as far as the annual frequency is concerned, and at eighty-five, eighty-five, a reduction of eighty-three flights. Athens - Kalymnos, of the four hundred and fifty-four flights, we go to the two-five, that is, a reduction of two hundred four flights. Athens - Karpathos, of the four hundred fifty-four, go to two hundred fifty, that is, two hundred four flights minus. Athens - Leros, five hundred fourteen years ago, two hundred seventy-two now. Let's go to the endododecanese now, there's just as much worse things, since in Rhodes, Karpathos, Kasso, we're going to the tragedies forty-six fewer flights, and indeed, Minister, and I'm afraid of what happened on your own command, there's no possibility of interconnecting the Dodecanese with Sitia, with Crete. Why? You have an answer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You know, the same is happening for the other endododecanese airports of Rhodes - Kos - Kalymnos - Lero - Astypalaea, but also something very important, Minister. He said earlier, 'for national reasons'. I will only take note of the nationally important line, Lemnos - Mytilini - Chios - Samos - Rhodes and return, which is reduced by fifty-six flights, on a very important border line, Mr. Minister, and in an area where the two regions of the north and the south of the Aegean have a link to the Aegean University. Listen: There is a reduction in the possibility of connecting the university seats from Rhodes - Samos - Chios - Mytilini and Lemnos, by fifty-six connections. It is a very unfavourable decision that you have made, because it is not possible to deceive anyone at all of the method of conducting the season with three periods, since different results are actually reflected. Minister, on the basis of this plan, common sense is only recorded with one conclusion, that you are attempting to give a solution at the last minute, and also, this plan demonstrates the government's inability to distinguish which routes are important, what must be subsidized and what are the barren airlines, which must be supported. You know, Mr Minister, air transport does not only serve the needs of the removal of geographical isolation. Let me give you some information on the promotion of the future, the economic and social development of the islands. I will submit to the Minutes the routes that exist. One island just to take Karpathos from 2012 to 2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Consola, I'm sorry, I'm interrupting to inform you that you're already using your dentistry. So keep it in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u89	So let me soon close my prototype and say, Minister, that from 2012 to 2015, the total routes in Karpathos were over seven thousand three hundred seventy-seven and, as for passengers on a set of routes, there has been a huge increase in the eighty-five thousand visitors over the past few years. Therefore, an increase in tourist current which means revenues in public accounting, which means that we will also have the possibility to fill the public corps with the result that adverse consequences will be avoided with regard to the objectives set by the Government for public revenue. At the same time, Minister, I must say that this decision is in fact annulled by the island clause, which is a great deal to be said at the National Representation. And you know, it's not my concern, Minister, to reduce the services that exceed 50%. It is the concern of all the islands expressed by the decision of the CEDEFOP. Through the decision of the Municipality of Karpathos, through the decision of the Municipality of Kassos, through the decision of the Municipality of Kalymnos, through the decision of the Municipality of Leros, through the decision of the Vice-Regional of the South Aegean and all other business and non-governmental bodies, who present today together with our agony and theirs. I would like to believe, Minister, that today you will treat this pathogen and give a definitive answer to what is all about, that is, aid rather than weakening air connections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u90	Mr Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I shall take the floor from my position and be shorter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u92	As you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much. Minister, as you are well aware, the European Commission Regulation 1008 of September 2008 sets out the possibility for Member States to conduct competitions for air services, and in this case we are interested in barren air services and, of course, allows the conditions under which these competitions are conducted. Our topical question, Minister, reflects the concerns of local communities, especially our islands, about the delay in conducting the island competitions. Already, today the plan of the relevant CYA for an invitation to the new competition has been published but there are questions on which we would like your answers. The first question is: Why have you been so late in the issue of the CRL and the opening of the tender, since you know that the existing contracts expired at the end of March 2016? The second question: Have you checked the legality of the tender you made in March concerning the extension of existing contracts? If so, why did the Court of Auditors consider that the extension beyond two months is not legally tolerated and compatible with European law and with Greek law? In fact, you didn't have a position before, and if I'm not cheating, you claimed the same view that extensions could not exceed two months. I say that without reservation. If I'm wrong, deny me, but I've read it somewhere, I've seen it. Let us now accept that this new system, which you are proposing, has been delayed a little for barren lines. Then why did it take another six months to plan and launch it? Wasn't it just one, two months? Was there no design in February? Also, what about the remaining months for which the contracts have been extended? Will there be legal payments or will the flight project stop? Now we're going to the same assignment for the six months. You have called lately in a closed procedure for four companies with a deadline of twenty-four hours to submit the tenders and finally signed the contracts, which, as I said, the Court of Auditors considers to be reasonably problematic. But do these procedures have the guarantees of transparency and efficiency? Now let's go to the new system you're entering. In reply on February 5, 2016 to a question by our Member, Mr Dimitris Stamatis, you proceeded to an announcement of your intentions for the new system of outsourcing routes. In fact, that is where you have done - you will allow me to speak - a lesson about how capitalism and competition work in order to defend your intention to abolish some routes. Today you come and keep them all the way. So what happened, Minister? I would like to say, in order to close this issue, of the so-called reduced costs, that costs are reduced. Mr Placiotakis mentioned it, and Mr Consolas mentioned it a moment ago. First of all, we should all do - and you in particular - a little patience until the competition is completed to see if the competition is to take place, because it may be a barren one, but it can also be postponed or cancelled. In these cases what happens? And then we could talk about whether there's going to be money savings and not now. I'm afraid the government will fall out in one more proclamation. But I wonder: If something goes wrong and the competition is declared barren or postponed, what plan do you have? How will these islands be covered? Furthermore, it should be noted that this reduction in costs results in particular from the reduction in routes. I shall refer in particular to the islands, which concern me and which I have anxieties about, the islands of the northern Aegean. To reduce routes, we also knew it as a former government, and it was easy to do so, namely, to contribute to the isolation of remote areas by reducing their potential for interconnecting with urban centres. However, this is not an issue on which it can be taken that costs are reduced. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. To sum up, since we haven't heard from you for two months, we didn't come here to say that your new spirit is the best you've ever done. And that's because you have a lot to explain. But you must clearly explain to us what happened in the months before the joint ministerial decision was adopted. Your new route award plan gives rise to many questions, both for the possibility of implementation and for the costs that it will have in the daily lives and economy of our outermost regions, much more, because as you know from 1 June 2016, reduced VAT is abolished, with what this implies for the remote islands and especially the islands of the northern Aegean. We would therefore like answers, Mr Minister, to the questions that we have raised. I reserve my dentistry to answer your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Mr Metatakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, sixteen months of governance on the left must go from the previous account and be faced with the problems of the Greek people, bring solutions rather than just commenting on what has happened in the past. The people - they're supposed to - trusted you to do better. Here, I would like to raise the issue of islands in general. In sixteen months of government SYRIZA, the Greek people and especially our islanders have only negatively new ones. I will give two examples which will be here very soon. First, the abolition of the reduced rate of VAT on the islands, which will be completed on 1 January 2017 and will significantly affect the cost of living and the competitiveness of those islands. We hear that the government will legislate to introduce extra taxation on tourism, burdening the hotels, creating another blow to our islands. The big problem facing the islands is access, what we call 'transport equivalent'. It is much more expensive to move from the capital, from the international airport of Athens, for example, to any island, than to move to mainland Greece. For this reason, the Greek Constitution itself provides for a clause of insularity, which was even more specificized by legislation in the period 2012-2015. Support for barren lines is a special case falling within the clause and the concept of islandity. There is a need to link not only the capital but mainly other regions of the country and to islands, these islands which, due to the small size of the population, the small number of tourists who visit them, are not entirely economic in terms of operating the airlines and offer the services they need, firstly, services that they need, for economic reasons, but also, secondly, as President Plakatakis quite rightly said, they also need for national reasons. So the government comes late and proceeds to a competition to cover the barren lines. While he said at first that it is not possible to extend, he gave and eventually proceeded to a competition, which shows a significant reduction in routes. Minister, our islands will accept the two blows that I told you a moment ago, VAT, the end at hotels, and some of them are also facing the very great refugee current of 2015, which caused huge problems. These islands cannot withstand the decline in the route of the barren lines. They are faced with intense tourism competition. They are faced with the need for residents to connect with neighbouring islands and with other regions of the country. This requires support for these lines. You said in your speech to the House on 5 February that the existing system is distorting and you proposed multiple changes. I would like to ask you, Minister, if you will eventually change something on the barren lines. Because it seems that the competition you have published on the basic rationale doesn't change anything, it doesn't offer anything. The only thing that finally offers is a reduction in the number of routes. It also offers a great deal of uncertainty as to whether the tender can be completed in time, whether or not there will be no interruption of services, which will have a very large, negative impact. And since you are talking about another project, Minister, I would like to ask whether we should perhaps see the issue of accessibility at some point as a whole - maritime accessibility, air accessibility - and the concept of 'new media', such as waterplanes, which come into Greek territory, whether there should be a better strategy, which will of course require resources, which are also necessary for economic reasons and for national reasons, by supporting areas of the country, which are facing great problems. Finally, I would like to ask the following question: with the budgetary cut, which the government is expected to legislate, how will islanders be affected? For example, will the horrific routes on ships and on aircraft be on this budget cut? So if the government fails to achieve its budgetary targets, in 2018 is there a risk that these islands will suddenly not be linked? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. Mr. Kavadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as the honourable Members have pointed out, I too do not think you have understood the damage you are causing by risking the smooth operation of air horrific lines. It doesn't say anything to citizens that you keep the same number of barren lines. What matters is that you reduce the frequency of the subsidised routes, the passenger traffic and the interest of the airlines in the tender. Minister, it is crucial that you complete the tender for the selection of contractors in time. You cannot delay any longer, because our islands are now isolated from the rest of Greece. Unfortunately, we have no confidence in you because you have already failed to complete the competition on time. The contracts expired on 31 March and you have been running lately and have had to extend a few months, so that the connection to barren lines is not interrupted. Already, the Court of Auditors rejected the extension and requested clarifications, cutting the six-month extension of the contract into two months. So you owe us an explanation of both the delay in the tender and the decision of the Court of Auditors. Our islanders need to know why this frugality has been. You must also tell us about the new competition if you have consulted stakeholders on the redesign of routes. Did you really talk to the local communities of the islands that have been serving for years now by these lines? Did you hear what they have to say? Did you talk to the airlines operating the routes? Do you understand the needs you need to meet and where there needs to be redesign and improvement? I'm afraid you haven't made any effort to listen to anyone. I am also afraid that out of time you will be once again mistakes are being made in the planning of the routes. Allow me here a specific reference to the Corfu - Akti - Kefalonia - Zakynthos - Kythera. It is important to protect this line, Minister, because it supports tourism and the necessary movements of the local population. Especially for Kythiras and this line, with the changes you are promoting, the aircraft approach to Kythiras is abolished, which is unjustified that causes great financial and tourist damage. This line, Minister, unites the Istanbuls and is an important source of tourism. But you throw out the Kythiras, as if they were not historically part of the Istanbul. And I wonder how will the Kythera be connected to the rest of the Istanbul? Are you planning to do the Istanbuls, "explode" and take the Kytheras to the Cyclades? Also, from two winter and three summer routes you reduce them to two for all periods. The connection of the island of Kythera to Athens is enormously degraded, since the winter approaches are reduced by six routes, which are today, on two routes. I would like to remind you here that Kythera administrative authorities belong to Piraeus and we need to ensure that the people are moved daily. So, are you telling us on what basis these cuts occur? We know that this summer's traffic is increased and yet, you are cutting off routes from the summer season. And all this is happening while the Prime Minister tells SETE that he expects an increase in tourism this year. I wonder: Are the Intergovernmental Conference not entitled to a share of this increase? I know that you have received a letter from the Mayor of Kythera with specific requests concerning the air connection of Kytheras, including with Athens and the Istanbul. Unfortunately, as it turns out, you have ignored the demands and needs of other local societies, which have so far been linked by air horrific lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Kavada. Mr. Christos Boukokouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the previous Members have raised the issues which have to do with the development of the island regions and whether this is affected by your decisions. They also developed the transport and the national and tourist issues involved in the matter of subsidising the barren lines. Minister, I would like a more political approach in the sense that I am obliged to remind you, through and through this issue, of your absolute Memorandum of Understanding and your political inconsistency. Listen, Minister, this is not a redesign of the issue of subsidisation of barren lines. This is a delay in signing contracts, which leads you to cross-cutting routes to the island regions of the country. Flight work is reduced and of course the cost of the grant is reduced. If this horizontal cut is not a Memorandum Policy, I wonder what it is. On the other hand, you do not lose the opportunity to express your opposition to the concession of the fourteen regional airports each time. And while you would have the opportunity to reinforce all the airports that remain in state control, do whatever through these decisions and the way you manage the barren lines to weaken them. I repeat that this is not a new design, as you replied to our colleague last February. You left time behind, you did not give any explanation, because there was this delay and now it is in the air. We do not know what the Court of Auditors will say, we do not know how the whole case will develop and it is clear now that all the so-called barren islands will be left on much less routes. I would say to you, Minister, that the tourist product, which you are making very positive assessments, has nothing to do with how many tourists have expressed their intention of visiting Greece, but how many, in the end, will visit it. And that, of course, we'll see at the end of the season, when the numbers will be flawless witnesses of the tourist movement for this year. I would also say to you that this is a very sensitive product, which is also affected by the decision we are discussing and with all the procedures, as you have managed them, but also by abolishing the reduced VAT by 30% in the island regions - all the others are already in the next month - with the arrangements for the semi-permanent residence of refugees on many islands, which have been and are tourist lungs in the country and with a large number of other decisions. Even the joint ministerial decisions on the concession of the coast have been delayed and last year, they are being delayed this year. Also, as far as my constituency, Magnesia, is concerned, it is limited by fifty routes to Skiathos, as we see in the relevant table. But, Minister, the airport of Skiathos does not only serve the Skiathites. It also serves the inhabitants of Skopelos and the Alonissos. You know that the approach of a resident of Alonissos from the island to the center by boat and land transport is more than ten hours, so they are served with the airport of Skiathos. Finally, because of a limited period of time, I would like to make a simple reference to airports which do not belong either to the barren line or to the airports which were allocated, fourteen. Such an airport, Mr Minister - a great infrastructure - is that of Nea Anchialos, Volos airport, which is an airport of all Central Greece and wider. In other words, it serves some one million people. We have not heard any strategic planning, we have heard no view of the political leadership. At times you have made meetings with local bodies, you make various promises. Sixteen months later, and as long as foreign airlines have left the airport, they are still snatching, with little traffic. I am referring to an infrastructure of many tens of millions of euros which can stimulate tourism in Central Greece. Of course, this is not about the bourgeoisie issue, but since we are discussing it today, we would like to hear your opinion and that is why. In any case, lack of planning, Minister. And, unfortunately, that's not the only thing. On all major issues, the government operates in the same way. This has been the occasion to ask the question, because we are talking about very sensitive and economically and national regions, such as the island regions of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. And with Mr Bukkoro, the list of questionable Members of the New Democracy has been completed. Before giving the floor to the Minister for Transport, Infrastructure and Networks, Mr Spirtzi, on behalf of the Government for his first place, let me have a statement. The topical question 15 Members of Parliament's Group of the Democratic Independence PASOK - DIMAR (PES). 25/19/14-2016) has the competence of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism, entitled “By postponing the development plan for the country”, which was scheduled for Friday 20 May 2016, to be postponed. I also inform you that the Groups of the Parliamentary Groups of all the parties have sent letters informing the Bureau of the parliamentary representatives. The new Republic designates Mr Constantine Ah as Parliamentary Representative. Karamanlis, from SYRIZA Mr.Apostolos Karanastasis, from the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Sahinides. Also, from the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Parliamentary Representative is Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathasopoulos, from Potamis Mr. George Amyras, from the Independent Greeks Mr. George Lazarides and from the Union of Centrons Mr. Ioannis Saridis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I would really like to thank you for the timely question you have put. Thank you very much, because the systemic media are not talking about what the government is doing. And you are giving us today the opportunity to highlight the work of the government and, above all, to highlight the real differences between the policy that has been pursued for so many years on the atrocities of air transport - who are favoured by this policy - in relation to this government, in these difficult situations. So I have to thank you. And it's not ironic, it's real. And by the way, from what I understand from your position, you should probably be informed of the facts of the New Democracy Government, what it had done, where it was going and where it committed the country and its commitments to creditors and to legislation. From the positions I have heard, I conclude that you are not aware of what you have done. And I'll be very specific. What did we receive? We received twenty-eight barren lines at a cost of 47 million to Greek citizens. We do not take those from EURO CONTROL or from elsewhere. That's great! It would be nice to refresh your memory a little, because it's not eighteen months. We had elections in September. He's eight. This government has eight months' life. So when we took over, we sought the documentation - you want to forget it, but it's okay, it's good to remind you of it - and the design of the barren lines. What was that design? Zero. Zero. We searched for the overall design in relation to the barren lines of the ferry. No design. Zero. If anyone sees what the barren lines are, it will come to the conclusion that we have another planning of electoral clienteles, without local communities having to do so, of course, a grant plan for airlines, not local societies. For example, I mention barren lines: Athens - Paros. Abdominal. It's inside the isolation. Athens - Zakynthos, Thessaloniki - Corfu, Thessaloniki - Kalamata. Border lines. If you see the number of seats that the Greek people pay for each barren line and what is the actual number of passengers - because that must be the criterion on the barren lines, what is the actual number of passengers - it will come to the conclusion that the infertile air lines and the number of flights were made to pay the Greek people for a particular company, which you privatised - it was a state - and Mr.Venopoulos bought it. And I'm telling it historically. Lucky! The same regime was then maintained to date and you added two other airlines and some barren lines, but in the same logic. I shall table the table so that Parliament and the Greek people know. The Greek people paid a total of 47 million in 2014, under the responsibility of the New Democracy. How many citizens were sitting in these seats and moved? The New Democracy has never wondered. Let's untie you this question. Five hundred sixty-five thousand sixty-seven citizens and tourists were moved. These are the passengers, almost 50%. In detail, per barren line, I mention the following: You can tell me which areas you are elected to tell you the corresponding ones. There are a few examples. Zakynthos...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Contonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Contonis, yes. Mr. Condonis did this. Passenger traffic in 2014, thirty-six thousand three hundred fifteen passengers. How many places did the Greek people pay? He paid fifty - eighty - five hundred eighty - four seats. How much did we give for that? We were one million seventy-eight thousand. Oh, shit! The train, Rhodes - Kos - Kalymnos - Leros - Astypalea. Passenger traffic in 2014, five thousand seven hundred ninety-one passengers. How many places did the Greek people pay? He paid nine thousand eighty-eighty-three places. What were we giving here? We were one million seven hundred fourteen thousand. Athens - Sitia. Passenger traffic twenty thousand two hundred ninety-five passengers. Offered positions, what were we paying to move these citizens? We paid seventy-five thousand, seven places. New Democracy had a great design, not at sixteen months, forty-six years! Athens - Kastoria - Kozani, six thousand four hundred fifty two passengers moved. The seats we were paying for were twenty thousand fifty-two. I continue with the line of Thessaloniki - Lemnos - Ikaria. There were fourteen thousand sixteen hundred thirty - five passengers moving and forty - five thousand five hundred seventy - seventy - five. On the line Alexandroupolis - Sitia were two thousand seven hundred ten passengers moving and seven thousand eight hundred sixty the places paid. Some of these are particularly interesting. Mr. Athanasios, this includes your area. On the line Lemnos - Mytilini - Chios - Samos - Rhodes was eight thousand three hundred fifty - nine, the total passengers moved and twenty - six thousand - one - six - six - and the seats paid. Overall - I said it before numbers - not even 50%! I'll testify after the table for the Minutes. This was paid by the Greek people for too many years. And throughout the last few years, of course, you have proposed that pensions and salaries should be cut, and that you have allegedly cut the health and education expenditure, which you have made redundancies, and you have supposedly wanted to cut expenditure - and that is what you are proposing today, as another policy in relation to our own government - the barren lines, these irrational lines, no one has seen them. Rather, you should see this again and do your self-criticism, because when you have tried to reduce the operating costs of the state, no one has ever seen it. I'll come back to what you said. Ladies and gentlemen, both Mr Stamatis in February and you today have tabled your anxieties about the barren lines, cultivating in February and today insecurity in local societies, the mayors of the citizens, that there will be no routes and that these areas will be cut off. Today we can confirm what we said in February, that there will be barren lines, that the Greek Government has ensured that there are barren lines. No horrific line was cut. But the waste was cut. The Civil Aviation Service and the Ministry proceeded to the mid-term negotiation and procedures until the conclusion of the tender. And I'll tell you what we've achieved. Why did you ask me about the proceedings and what we did? So let's see what we've achieved, why just mention how much it costs. How much it cost before 31 March you didn't mention it! In the medium term, therefore, we have achieved a 25% reduction for the three - four airlines involved in relation to 47 million. And for OLYMPIC AIRWAYS, we have achieved a 33% reduction, with the highest percentage of the barren lines. In addition, the company donated half the building and infrastructure of the new Paros airport, which will be completed as a whole in a three-year period, but will operate with half the building since July this year. Do you realize what waste you've gone through all the past decades? That's it for a semester, that's it. Do you understand that? On the barren line of Athens - Paros, we gave the time of 4.5 million. The whole new airport, along with the runway, cost less than 20 million. I mean, four years of subsidies made the airport! If you wanted to serve the citizens, you would build the new airport and not give 4.5 million a year to the barren line of Athens - Paros. That's another favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u104	Did you make it to the airport?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u105	I will also mention to you - to close the briefing of what we received and go to what we are doing - the number of passengers per flight, for which you had specific examples. I will say a few examples to make it perfectly understandable that there were flights that the Greek people paid, paid flights. Mr President, on the barren lines we do not pay the traveling passengers, but we pay all the places on the plane that goes. So the Greek people were paid to move pilots and flight attendants to drink coffee at their airports, because passengers were zero. Listen to the line design. Someone mentioned the Istanbul: A plane started by Corfu, went to Aktio, Kefalonia, Zakynthos, Kythiras, and backwardness followed exactly the reverse course. It was landing, that is, backwards in Zakynthos, Kefalonia, Aktio, Corfu. Ten landings and take-offs. That cost EUR 2.5 million. Do you want a lot of brains to say that he was going back to the original airport? Oh, no. Another design served, how we upload the subsidy. Lemnos - Mytilini - Chios - Samos - Rhodes and the return of the return, 3.5m euros. Ten landings and take-offs, too. Rhodes - Karpathos - Kassos - Sitia and again, Sitia - Kassos - Karpathos - Rhodes, 4.1m euros. Eight landings and take-offs. We're upping the cost on every flight. I'm fine! What is it, colleagues? Coliatsu Bus - Pagrati?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u106	It's the sea bus, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u107	The sea bus, but someone pays for the sea bus and is the Greek people and the winner are airlines, the specific, not others. It does not serve citizens. I wonder why you're upsetting people like this. I'll give an example. Totally random I have an example of the criticism made before. Zakynthos - Kythera: January, nine arrivals of aircraft, eight passengers. February, eight aircraft arrivals, zero passengers. March, four aircraft arrivals, one passenger. April, thirteen aircraft arrivals, one passenger. The Greek people paid. May, thirteen aircraft arrivals, four passengers. Let's go to the summer. June, thirteen aircraft arrivals, ten passengers. July, fourteen aircraft arrivals, thirty-nine passengers. For those who fit in an airplane, on a flight, we were paying another twelve like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u108	Let's take them all together...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u109	No, you're gonna hear it all, all months, because you said it. You criticised us if we want to do "I've got the Ivians". Eighth month, August, at the heart of the tourist season, fourteen aircraft flights - here we added one - thirty - nine passengers. September, 12 aircraft flights, twenty-three passengers. October, thirteen aircraft flights, five passengers. November, seven aircraft flights - here something happened, the pilot got sick, we didn't make many flights - two passengers. December, nine aircraft flights, four passengers. The Greek people paid. I'm fine! Otherwise, local society! What local society? Where did you see we're helping with this local society? What have we done these months, what are we doing today, and what are we planning for the future? Firstly, until the completion of the tender, we have achieved a 25% reduction in all the barren lines and donated the works of the airport of Paros, starting in July and ending in three years the rest of the project. Secondly, we have given - and we have completed the consultation on the barren lines - the following criteria. First of all, we must not cut a line. Because Mr. Stamatis was also concerned if we would cut off a line from Thessaloniki or Thessaloniki - Kalamata. We're not cutting her out. Secondly, with regard to the existence of journey frequencies which will serve real travel and needs, I note - so that local communities are not concerned - that there will be no barren line with less than three weekly routes in the winter months. The consultation plan that came out has two in some cases, because the PSC made calculations according to passenger movements. We appreciate that, in order to support local communities, we will put at least three on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, in a way that can go on weekends and return on Monday mornings. We've split time into three belts. These routes will increase in the spring months and further in summer. Where we will not reduce the frequency, it is where the cost is zero and simply the airline takes its exclusive to serve this route. I also note that we streamline series routes including many landings and take-offs directly back to the original airport. It's not the case, what we had, that was five and they were turning five, like the plane was a trolley. We also streamline companies' compensation. They broke down to reduce labour costs. How will that look in the air transport? They have been reduced - you say - fuels. I ask you this: will we not reduce the remuneration of the four airlines? Is it arbitrarily calculated by the Services? [[At this point, the closing bell of the Secretary-General's speaking time hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I note - we have said it again, we have said it again in Mr Stamatis's reply, but you have probably not accepted it - that the London flight to Turkish airline costs EUR 158, with Greek airline EUR 204, with German airline EUR 213. The flight to Moscow costs 178 euros with Russian airline, 192 euros with Turkish and 261 euros with Greek and so on. Let us now see the compensation of our own here, of the barren lines. For the Aktio - Sitia the cost is 547,83 euros for Thessaloniki - Skyros 419 euros, for Limnos - Mytilini - Chios - Samos - Rhodes 413 euros and for Alexandroupolis - Sitia 365 euros. In other words, the money we give these lines is more than just going to New York and going back. I don't know if you know what they've done all these years. With these changes, therefore, and without abolishing any line, with the least I have said, we have a reduction from EUR 47 million to EUR 14 million - at EUR 12 million, as you rightly said - that is more than 70%. Probably with the conclusion of the consultation - I think that today the consultation or Friday - will have to be increased by up to EUR 15 million, but this has nothing to do with the EUR 47 million paid by the Greek people. [[At this point the doorbell closes the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] What's the next step? Then, in cooperation with the OTAs - and we work with OTAs - we spoke with the Mayor of Kythera. I spoke to whoever wanted to talk to me, as well as to the airlines. We're starting procedures for new barren lines that the place needs. You asked me about the Anchor. We didn't find one. What are you asking me? You haven't even put one in forty years. It's the process too long to put in a new barren line. Fourthly, we have already started the overall redesign of airborne lines, not on their own, but in cooperation with the Ministry of Shipping, so that there is at last a matching of all the barren lines that exist, so that there is no chaos that is being done today - other airlines, other coastlines - and, of course, that we also have a plan with the watercourses that will be made so that there is a comprehensive plan for the atrocities of our country. The difference, then, is that this time, this design will serve the citizen, the passenger, the development and the public interest and not the interests of a company or the continuity of four companies. That's the big difference. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the posts of the Parliamentary Representatives, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way the House is organised and how the House is organised, thirty-seven students and students and four educational sessions from the 11th Municipal School of Alexandroupolis and from the Municipal School of Agerias Paros. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are starting with the first parliamentary representative, Mr Karamanlis Konstantinos, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, I am carefully following your work and I do not hesitate to point out when you do something that I am in agreement with. I think we all need to get out of the perceptions of old-fashioned politicians who always disagree with everything. Unfortunately, however, this practice will allow me to say that you did not follow it today. Today we are talking about a burning and very important issue for so-called barren air lines. And as other Members have said, the questions are many. But you will allow me here to reply to what you said, that you are accuseing the previous governments and accusing the previous convention of spending unreasonable money on the barren lines. Let's assume, for an economy of time, that this was happening. On what basis do you, Minister, come and prolong this regime? In six months' time you will come and give EUR 19.7 million, that is, exactly half of the total subsidy, and even by procedures which, as the previous Members have said, are problematic. I will start directly with the most important question of our question, which has to do with the delay you have shown. And that is something that we first asked you in our question, because from the first day you took over - and you know, here the argument that "we were eight months in government" is not the case, and at the previous stage you were government, Minister, and if I remember you were well, you were Deputy Minister, responsible for the same wallet - you knew that on March 31, 2016, the contract for the execution of the services expired and you knew from Greek legislation and from European legislation that you had six months to complete the procedures. As Mr Plakyotakis and the other Vice-Presidents said, you should have started the procedure, if not in the summer, after you took over again in September. But what did you do? I think it is now clear that you have delayed. What is the Minister doing on 2 March, ladies and gentlemen? It shall declare the opening of the negotiation for the proclamation of a contractor or contractor of twenty-six barren lines. And the deadline for submitting tenders shall be set the following. Neither an international open competition, as provided for by the legislation nor any other institutional system. Procedure that, as you usually call it, is a negotiated procedure without publication. So, in fact, we ask you: is this not a form of direct delegation? Because you blame the previous governments for giving this money to the barren lines, let me ask you something else: which companies were the ones that took EUR 19,8 million, and if you want, because the six-month contract has become two months, EUR 6,6 million? The same companies, wasn't they? Was he involved in any other company, whether Greek or foreign, in this process? So this was an ex-institutional process, and I think we all know that. Where are we now? Right now that we're talking about the six-month extension is in the air. And I would like to explain that the Court of Auditors has forced you to'saving' the six-month contract and make it two months, so if you do not find a solution within 15 days, there is a risk that the barren lines will stay in the air. And that's not a danger. And the purpose of our question, as other Members have told you, is neither to jeopardise nor to scare local communities. Your omissions, Minister, are the ones that obviously create these feelings. In short, what did you do? You split the project by airport for two months, so that a contractual price of more than EUR 1,000 000 does not occur, and so neither the Court of Auditors passes through you nor as Minister, but from the Director of the PSC. This, Minister, as you know better than I do, creates a real problem and we really hope and hope, Mr Minister, that you do not have any other questions with the Court of Auditors, because the only losers will not be the government, it will not only be us, it will be the citizens in the remote islands and the remote regions. You are then officially coming a few days ago, on 11 May, the call for comments on the tender was closed. But to date, the new competition for the next four years has not been opened. Therefore, once again you have been delayed, because even if you resolve the matter with the Court of Auditors, we are again very afraid that you will have problems with the procedures. So we see that you have a truly borderline planning and if this borderline planning falls out, then there will be very big issues. We don't want to be mistresses, we're just trying to figure out what the reason for the delay was. You, Minister, are supposedly a practical man and an engineer - and as far as I know - and a good engineer. If you were assigned to your work a project with specific requirements and deadlines would you allow it to run like this? I don't think so. In fact, I'll remind you of something else. We had noted the problem since January 2016. And what did you then tell us in the timely question from the then Minister, Mr. Stamatis? You said you were delaying because you wanted to reform the model of barren lines and stressed that there are some lines that should not be included in this category and you blamed the previous governments for having been spectacles of the previous governments in the airlines. Now let's see what you guys did. You have launched a competition for exactly the same twenty-eight lines. So there was no study, Minister. And by express procedures you gave the same companies 20,000 000. The previous competition that was in 2011 at least, Minister, was a contributor. Yours was a direct assignment on the substance. So there's something going on here. Were we finally our ruffles, yours? Isn't this a very big rousfette to the same airlines, which are currently giving EUR 20,000 000, without any transparent procedure? What, moreover, is the philosophy you had announced a few months ago in this Parliament? Where are these studies and applications? Your main position, your main argument for delay and delivery was that the routes had to be reassessed. And here I shall fully agree with you. The design of these air connections we all know is a design of the 1980s. It is perfectly normal that needs and conditions have changed. After all, the European Regulation, to which we have referred here, requires that every route of a barren line there is a thorough study. So the justification for the extension is not valid at the moment. Because studies so far, no one has seen from your Ministry's side or from the Air Force's side. At the same time, what you are also telling us in your reply is that the planes were going to leave. But that's why the barren lines are, Minister. Because in many cases, due to weather and circumstances, on some of the flights that will be made, not all positions will be occupied. This is something that is happening in other countries of Europe. You said a typical example of the New York ticket, and you gave us some clues. You know better mathematics than I do, because you are an engineer, but 47 million and fifty thousand passengers, Minister, the average ticket is 85 euros. If you get me a ticket to go to New York with 85 euros, please tell me and I'll pay you to go with me. So, once again, we are proving to you here that what you are saying is not unfortunately about insecurity. Now, the argument that we cultivated the insecurity I think it is a waste, Mr Minister, because we, as you have seen from Members' prototypes, did not raise the tone. We told you there was a vital problem and we are waiting for some solutions. Your answer is, unfortunately, the dear answer on the left, that is to say, to throw the ball at the platform and say very simply: 'What have you been doing in the past few years?' The problem, however, today, Minister, is that you are ruling and no one else is ruling. Our first thought is that especially nowadays, we must understand that interconnecting with these remote regions, for many reasons, is very important. What are you doing? You're keeping the barren lines, but you're cutting off the lines. With that logic, you're throwing the price. So we compare things unparalleled. The transport project, the operation of the two contracts, is quite different. In Kalymnos, for example, you are cutting out a hundred sixty flights a year. In Karpathos, only in winter, of the seven flights of Athens - Karpathos per week, we go to three. In Astypalaea from four routes to Athens in winter, we go to two. In Ikaria the same thing, in Lero the same thing, in Kythera. So I'm reducing the cost, Minister. The substance is if these areas are secured. And I conclude, Mr President, by saying a few words about the peculiarity that our country has and we do not meet it in any other European country. Greece's island character, Minister, covers 19% of the total territory. It is shaped by the largest coastal zone in the Mediterranean, fifteen thousand kilometres, and by the approximately three thousand islands and islands, the two hundred nine are inhabited. There is a term in the European Union that speaks of islands. So this requires the development of an integrated development strategy, not an atheist, but a view of the region. Such a national strategy cannot be implemented with the arguments, and that is what you have said. The ticket to London currently costs 213 euros when the flight Thessaloniki - Skyros is subsidized with 459 euros. Especially in today's times, our island regions are border areas, not only of our country but of Europe. I'm stopping here and I'm very much waiting for your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Karastasis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this timely question we are discussing both the content and its kind - it is a question, that is, a question in the form of a complaint - our honourable Members are giving us the opportunity to develop our positions on this issue and to demonstrate the difference of understanding between our own logic and our own practice and the respective party. A practice that, followed for decades, led to the loss of huge sums to the Greek public and worse established the so-called difficult areas away from growth. We have not seen any development in these areas. Some three months ago another New Democracy colleague asked, in the form of a timely question, about the same question that Members raised today. In particular, he was concerned because on 31-3-2016 the contracts for barren lines expired. Today, colleagues in their question are concerned that we will not be able to conclude the tender for the new contracts at the time of the extension. Do not worry, ladies and gentlemen, the competition will take place within the deadlines laid down and in accordance with European Union regulations. In fact, the planning of the imposition of obligations, adapted to the new economic data, forms a reduction in the total financial compensation payable at around 70% for the benefit of the Greek State. For the technical part of the preparation of the competitive process, the Minister spoke to you and I think that what remains is how many are moved and how many people have paid for these movements. But because in your question you suddenly discovered America as if you and your party were not responsible for the situation in question, and you raise the question of the redesign and redefinition of the barren lines, the sums that are available in this regard, it is good to see how we got here. What is the constant practice of your governments for decades and why your sudden concern and crocodile tears about the fate of the islands that are being cut off from the rest of Greece, about the burden of budgets and other such issues. First, let's see why we've reached the extension of contracts. It was mentioned before by the parliamentary representative. It is well known that your Government has agreed to the concession of fourteen airports in the country to 'FRAPORT'. The contract was signed on 14-12-2015 and about the end of January 2016 was defined as the date of receipt of the airports by ‘FRAFORT’ or ‘1-11-2016’. These dates, which were not known in advance, created a suffocating timeframe up to 31-3-2016 to conclude new contracts for barren lines consistently - reasonably - the extension of the old ones. That is how the extension came about. You demanded the PSC, the Civil Aviation Agency, you made the deal to sell the fourteen airports, and you washed your hands. The story, ladies and gentlemen, did not vindicate Pontius Pilate. Let us now come to what you suddenly discovered and tell us when you should have done it for decades already. You tell us that some of the twenty-six existing bourgeois lines cannot continue to exist and burden the budget and that an assessment must be made so that the amount allocated to these lines is allocated on the basis of real needs and objective criteria. Yes, sir. But you are not telling us which government defined the routes Athens - Syros, Thessaloniki - Kalamata, Athens - Zakynthos, Thessaloniki - Corfu and the Greek people have been paying for them for years. What if not ruptured your governments to the airlines? Ladies and gentlemen, with these proposals you are breaking open doors. Of course, all the relevant planning needs to be reviewed, and that is what we are doing. But you are the last ones who are entitled to suggest that, unless your question was intended to give us the opportunity to develop our positions, so I would be happy to do so now. We are therefore planning, ladies and gentlemen, a radical restructuring of the barren lines with specific criteria which are as follows. The first criterion is the era. It is not even on islands or areas where there is no movement to have the same compensation in summer. The second is passenger traffic. The third is their destinations and specificities, such as distancekilometres, technical characteristics of airports, the population and economic characteristics of the place, tourism policy, national reasons, the need to modernise airports and the ownership of airports. Obviously through this process some areas will continue to be assisted by a grant for air services. But they will be the ones that really need it. The subsidy will be in the interest of residents rather than airlines. Our aim is not to have a part of the Greek territory cut off from the whole. This will be done with the overall review of so-called difficult areas after we put on the table and the coastline, of course, in cooperation with the local communities, local authorities and companies. [[At this point, the closing bell of the honourable Member's speech hits a warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But the ferry and air connection of a place cannot be subsidized, and indeed in duplicate, with Athens and Thessaloniki, for both ways of connecting and other areas are without transport. From there and beyond priorities, there will obviously be support for the development of tourism in the regions offering this possibility, for national interests will be guaranteed, as is the case with the problem. But the waste in which the client state you diverted for decades had well received its privileged partners will be cut off. The Paros case is well known, ladies and gentlemen, where the subsidy for the last four years, four years for 4.2 million, 16.8 million, would cover the whole cost of the project, because it was a barren line because there was not a sufficient route. Ladies and gentlemen, our aim is through a strategic plan with a prioritisation of priorities, depending on the specificities of each region, to modernise these airports so that by exploiting competition and not by using the privileged monopoly of airlines to effectively support the lives of residents in these areas by contributing to their development. This is our parallel programme on this issue. In the crisis without waste, with no higher costs, through a new view of things with work and a scientific approach, we can change the future of the place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Karastasis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u115	I'll finish. And since I referred to the crisis, I must note with particular emphasis that in all these difficult years when the world saw its income falling dramatically, when the families hungered, which companies closed down, one of the minimal economic sizes that were not reduced was the amount of the subsidy, which your governments gave to airlines for barren lines. That was your own parallel program. I will close with the rather rhetorical question: why is the question? If we look at the balance sheets of the airlines involved, ladies and gentlemen, we will easily conclude that most of their profitability is due precisely to their involvement in the barren lines. From there on, it is not difficult to follow the route from companies to local authorities and from there to local parliamentarians and, here, to ask. However, we have no reason to deal with the profitability of companies. Of course, we recognise profitability as an element of healthy entrepreneurship, but this profitability must come from healthy competition and not from state subsidies. In this direction, we will move forward alone and will be in the interest of the local communities and the entire Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u116	Mr Sahinides, Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u117	Minister, in fact, listening to the introduction of your speech, because I was only listening to you with headphones and not visually, I had the impression at some point that I was listening to a competitor. I have heard you complain to the Members of the New Democracy and talk about systemic means. You must have forgotten that you are ruling, Minister. If you want to change your position to see what really systemic means are and generally have the whole system against you. Before I go to the topical question, I would like to refer to the draft law, which is in consultation and concerns aid, where there is a table, which refers to which municipalities and regions are characterised as border regions. If, Minister, I judge from this table, I understand what your intentions are in relation to the barren lines. This morning, in the Senate Hall, the committee called "European Interparliamentary Conference on Tourism" met, and the topic was: "Thirty-sixty-five days of multi-species tourism". I guess it was the wrong thing. It should change and enter: "Thirty-sixty-five days tourism for limited destinations with regard to Greece". The European regulation therefore provides for six-month procedures for the award and conclusion of such tenders. The extension of the contract for the execution of so-called fertile lines creates, Mr Minister, distrust among companies and reservation, companies active in the tourism sector. What I mentioned before - will, of course, dissuade many major travel agencies from operating. Because, as you know, they negotiate and book tickets up to twelve months ago. So you easily understand whether they will choose other destinations where they will have to do with much more serious states. So the barren lines of course have not only to do with tourist destinations, but also with other remote areas, which have the same problems. As far as dealing with the problem for these regions is concerned, the government has once again shown that it is dealing with this problem. Today's coexistence of these serious issues and problems is not appropriately dealt with. The sale of national regional airports will worsen, Minister, this situation, as foreign investors easily and on the sole basis of profits will cut off many of the barren lines that exist today. So the issue that arises is one and only for us. Are there any citizens for you? ( b) and (c) category? You're talking about developing and leaving the crisis. How, Minister? By creating a wave of policemen from our remote islands? Is there any other reason, Minister? Why are you seeking to desolate remote areas of our country? You have proved this to us in previous bills, such as the one with the agricultural cooperatives that three of the four agricultural cooperatives were islands. Is there eventually any secret diplomacy where other things have been agreed, such as the creation of grey zones in the Aegean? Is that something that suits foreign loan sharks? Especially in island areas with the increase in VAT, with the abolition of dutyfree, with the abolition of 50% in alcoholics, with the imposition of a night charge even in rent rooms, you show what your intentions in Greek society really are. Not that your predecessors had and have other intentions, but they're just doing it to show they're doing some resistance from the couch. There should therefore be state care for all remote regions of our country. It is something that, Minister, imposes on our Constitution. The Greek state must therefore, in practice, show that it is on the side of the last Greek. There can be no care to spend millions of euros on all but Greeks. According to your words, money for barren lines doesn't exist. You did blame your predecessors for spending 47 million. If necessary, Minister, it should also spend 90 million. There's resources. Cut from the piles of poachers. We have about six thousand islands, of which seventeen are inhabitable, and of these fifty nine number over a hundred inhabitants. In any way, Minister, one of these islands must not remain without service. In terms of tourism - for which you are expecting an increase this year from what I have heard in other committees - according to your own figures from Eleftherios Venizelos airport for the month, they say that for the first time after three years we have had a fall in the arrivals abroad by 1.8%. OLYMPIAKI, Minister, until 2009, covered not only the needs of the passenger, but also cases of patients with epilepsy, kidney patients, cancer patients. It was carried out by flights of the following types: First, the ATR42 which numbered fifty and had a flight attendant. Secondly, with ATR72 vessels with seventy seats and two escorts. And thirdly, with DASH-type vessels, which were thirty-seven seats with a flight attendant. The air attendants, Mr. Minister, provided even specialized first aid. Also, on these routes - if you don't know - our remote islands were provided up to the newspapers. As for the route - which I have heard before - for Sitia - Athens - Alexandroupolis and precisely the reverse, my information, Mr Minister, is that the planes were always filled with students and military personnel. And when it comes to receiving crews when they arrived at the destinations - you should, Minister, really take a trip - I would like to say a personal experience many years ago on the island of Kassos. By the time our plane was down, the priest himself welcomed. You can't imagine what it was like. What's left of me is the expression of hope and confidence these residents felt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u118	The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Constantopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, another urgent decision by the Government, this time the Minister for Transport, Infrastructure and Networks, concerning the delay in the notice and implementation of the competition on fertile air services. What's he confirming? The vertigo of government confusion. Without design, no targeting and completely fragmented issues of major importance are dealt with, such as linking our islands to the rest of Greece. Minister, the Ministry was aware of the problem of air transport in the fertile islands as a result of the expiry of the contract of 31 March. The Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Kremastinos, has pointed this out to you. So you knew it and you were committed to its immediate solution. So you were due in time to have proceeded with the tender procedure. Now, you are giving no documentation of a new extension until the end of September. This, too, with many questions and you say about the need to ensure adequate service on the specific routes that are vitally important. However, with these actions you dissolve your countryside, island Greece, as well as our barren lines. So, what are you doing today? You are simply turning the problem over to the future. You said, Minister, that you would restructure the barren lines with four criteria. Firstly, seasonality, secondly, passenger traffic, thirdly, the subsidy of permanent residents and fourthly, the milestones and the existing infrastructure. So you're just giving an extension. Here, therefore, the government systematically violates Article 101 of the Constitution, which requires special attention to the island regions and mountainous areas of our country. You mentioned many examples of the design you make for the barren areas. But so far you have no results and no evaluations. I would also like to point out that the new work programme applied to fifty municipalities has only one island municipality and two mountains. All the rest of the municipalities, that is, Kaidas? I wonder, and I wonder, are these regions not unemployed? Don't mountain municipalities need staff? Of course, the Ministry of Interior excludes the municipalities of less than ten thousand inhabitants for the creation of community centres, which are presumptionally islands and mountains. And I ask you: do we not have disabled and vulnerable groups in the mountainous regions? What does the Ministry of Trade Shipping, which is responsible for the full maritime coverage of our islands? They are questions that need answers. Gentlemen of the Government, you have abolished all the incentives for the development of the islands. The reduced VAT on tourism from 6.5% did it 24%. Remove gradually the reduced VAT on islands in the products and services they offer for mountain areas and all inland areas. You increase your insurance and taxation vertically. The cafes, grocery stores and every business activity in the small villages have been targeted by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The great increase in the taxation of farmers will affect the productivity of rural areas. Finally, where are you targeting, gentlemen of the government? Can a country survive only with the state sector? You, however, increased the wages of your general secretaries and retired ministerial offices, wanting to create the state of the “days” with privileges and great wages. However, Minister, you are ignoring farmers, producers, fishermen, people who are fighting in the primary sector. You ignore small businesses. And the acid for a left-wing government is that no government measure concerns and does not touch the great wealth. You are destroying low and middle incomes. That's how the country gets poor. There is no market resilience, of course. The backbone of our national economy, small businesses are narrowing. They're being drowned by taxes and loans. You've put a nipple in their throats and led them to despair. Many companies close, others look for a way to be transported outside Greece. Result? In Bulgaria, sixty-five thousand Greek companies have transferred their headquarters to Bulgaria. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, tourism for all of us is our heavy industry. A common target? His support. National reasons require support for our island regions, with the strengthening of infrastructures for the decent life of residents and these regions, with continuing air transport for the development of tourism. This policy is national policy and is a priority for your Government. But you haven't shown it. You're just saying that to this day. All of us are concerned with growth. Development everywhere. That's what we're waiting for. And since we're talking about the islands, Mr. Minister, here's Rhodes, here's the bet! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, we have a reflection. What does it mean, ‘hot lines’? Are there barren areas and barren people? Where does this term ‘unborn line’ arise? What's the cause? It was clearly said by Mr Metarakis that for some transport, air or shipping routes, companies cannot cover costs and have a profit. Therefore, bourgeois lines were baptized to gain, gain, finance the airlines and shipping companies. That's why barren lines were baptized. So here we are dealing with an unequal state support to these particular companies. We are dealing with a fascist, which the state precisely to ensure and shield the competitiveness and profitability of these carriers, has given warm money and not to meet the needs of the remote areas and the needs of the inhabitants of these regions. No one caught them like that. But under the pretext of this, they were incapable of financing business groups. The role of the Golden Dawn is also revealed here, which were especially boxers. Let's give it 90 million and 100 million, people are not lost on the barren lines. Who will take these and for what purpose? So it is confirmed that the only thing - and the Golden Dawn - is exactly how the business groups will be supported. And really, where is your different understanding, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA? You don't have a different perception. You have the same idea, but you're adapting it to new conditions. And you're talking about barren lines and the need for them to be subsidised. You adapt the same logic to the new conditions, which in the name of satisfying the needs of the inhabitants of these areas will satisfy the profitability of the air carriers. Of course, as far as this reduction is concerned, which you are saying you are seeking to fund from 47 million to 14, to 15, said by the Minister, to accept it. There's a matter. Will it cover the real needs or in the name of limiting the cost, but not the profit of business groups, the conditions and risks - we say possible - are being shaped for greater obstacles to the movement of the inhabitants of these regions and the needs of trade, which also have transport? In our view, there is a risk that the transport project will be further reduced. The second part, which we want to put into the logic of the debate, to highlight our position, is that this is a carabinat, confirmation of the huge capitalist waste, the waste, that is, the capitalist economy. What do we got? Competitive designs we have. Other designs are made by air carriers, other designs made by seafarers, other designs if we have land on the continent. They have air carriers, rails, roads and everyone for their profits. Let me remind you of facts. You said about Zakynthos. He entered Zakynthos to leave five minutes earlier and is a little faster than the previous one but they leave at the same time. Two boats flee the same hours, so in practice - how many routes are there? -10, six, seven, eight routes per day, but only to be made at the same hours and not these eight routes, which are carried out, to be allocated to the total of eighteen, how many routes do there need to be, only for who will be able to grab the peak time possibly. So here's who the waste is. This is the waste, which is happening. You, too, reward this waste and not go to the logic that any form of transport by air, sea, sea or land, must be complementary and that there must be a complementarity between them so that they can really meet all the needs and not operate competitively. But you cannot do this because there are companies, competitive interests and designs that are different. In this respect, it is once again the supremacy of the position of the JRC, which speaks of a single state transport agency. This body will be responsible for the operation on an additional and interdependent basis of all individual state actors on road, rail, air and seaboard and which will have the exclusive right to use internal lines and use infrastructure. In particular, air transport requires a public, state, vertically integrated national air transport operator, to which all air operations will be reserved for ground services and supply services on the technical basis and to the operations and will have the exclusive use of domestic lines, the exclusive use of domestic airports and the infrastructure of popular property. With this proposal from the JRC, what do we have? Do we have combined what needs? Firstly, that basic policy, reasonable and economic proposal from the JRC is that mass transport must be a priority in relation to individual transport. Secondly, that there must be a linked and complementary action of all forms. Thirdly, we must save and protect the environment. Fourthly, there must be planned economic development, with the aim of eliminating regional imbalances and a fifth element, that overall safety must be ensured through these flights. These are related to the needs of the country's defence and security. The security of flights and defence and security needs of the country cannot be handed over and assigned to NATO, as is the case with the various plans, such as the Renegaite project, assigned to NATO. These are the priorities of the JRC. Through this logic we can ensure flights, protect human life and satisfy the whole, full coverage of the transport needs and the most remote areas that are cheaper for the inhabitants of these regions and meet their needs. But that needs a change of power. The economy and the keys to the economy, that is to say, to become a socialisation of the means of production, to have popular power and to overthrow. From this point of view, what we are saying today is that we must not compromise what the workers and residents of these regions have found, namely, with the logic of the single European sky, with the logic of privatizations, but reject the policy of liberalisation of transport and do not have fragmentary claims on individual points, such as VAT or subsidisation of the barren lines, as if the problem were to be solved. The problem will be solved by how the needs of all the inhabitants of these remote areas, the working class as a whole and the population. This will only be done with the struggle in a logical break and overthrow with the interests of capital and of the European Union. Thank you very much, Mr President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. The Parliamentary Representative for the River, Mr Amyras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the New Democracy is very interesting. The Minister's answers are interesting. I will start a little differently, saying how wrong we have as a political system, but also as societies, whether local or regional, that we have written - to say so - in the collective subconscious - not to say to the conscious - the term 'big lines'. We refer to some of the amazing areas of Greece, some of the cells of dynamism with great cultural and economic added value. However, we are all responsible for talking of barren lines. And how can you avoid this condition when, for example, in two weeks' time from now - I imagine the Minister - with pain of soul will monitor the increase in VAT, the accuracy of products, namely services, on eight islands and after six months, the increase in VAT from 16% to 24%, by eight points, on the other islands? And there are some of these islands, which are not 'good', let me be allowed to speak. It's Alonissos, it's Thassos, it's Carpathos. However, if we add the tax to the hotels, which is also coming, then it is important to wonder how islanders will face the difficulties and reduce their competitive advantage vis-à-vis other regions, especially outside Greece. As far as the preliminary draft of the Civil Aviation Service for the reduction of routes is concerned, I am now reading it differently after the Minister's replies. Flight reduction is to be made in order to match the actual passenger traffic. I think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u124	Overcovering...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u125	He's overcovering it. Yes, sir. I find that positive, despite the fact, of course, that some lucky travellers will lose - rare - the great experience of traveling alone on board. You're feeling a tycoon. You're feeling Onassis. It has happened to me, once or twice, on such so-called 'hard lines' and they were really ambiguous. However, I would like to ask the Minister two - three things. First of all, I don't find the answer very convincing that you're eight months government. You're sixteen months in government and you didn't make the contest. Why was that contest delayed? That's the first thing I want to ask you. Secondly, will it be completed by 30 September, when the extension expires or is it not? Third question: is the cost added by airlines the same, is it stable at 157,000, or is it changing as the previous four-year contract?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u126	Forty-seven say? It was forty-seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u127	Yeah. Will it be the same or will it be less or more?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u128	Much less.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u129	Yes, it will be less. How will the airlines assess the cost of transport and the other financial data they need to know to submit an offer when the fourteen regional airports have not announced the fees, the fares and what will they charge? That's a clue. I would like to ask you to clarify this. The main issue, of course, was raised by Mr Plakatakis. On the islands, in fact, apart from what we see, there are too many other issues which we do not see. It's a national matter of how you deal with the islands, how you interconnect them, how you support them, how you help them grow. My basic question is therefore: When will this country acquire a strategic planning of seriousness for the development of the islands? What about the water and water planes? What about the possibility of local business societies and communities for a local maritime interconnection between islands? I, for example, happen to have many connections with Folegandros. I see Sikino across the street and you think "so" you will do and you will touch it, but to go from Folegandros to Sikino, I can only go twice a week in the summer. I'm talking coastline now. These are the problems that islanders expect - and not just - to solve. What will your Government do about these matters? Don't forget to tell you about Skyros. I saw Skyros with the new program will have two flights. You said three would be the minimum. Don't forget Squirrel. They had a fight to grow. We're helping her. It's a green island and really hopeful. Finally, Minister - and I, as you can see, I am shorter - the issue is that matters of delays, issues of bureaucracy, issues of business conflicts usually as a victim have the ordinary citizen. It is what they say 'the buffaloes are hitting and the frogs are paid for'. We believe that the interconnection and subsidisation of the Greek taxpayer's money lines must of course be clear, with all legal procedures, not only in terms of their formality, legality, deadlines, etc., but also in fact in terms of the financial cost, but above all in terms of the development of this wonderful world of multilingualism, the islands, which are the treasures of culture and the treasures of development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. We shall now proceed to the seconds of the honourable Members, with Mr Plakkatakis first. I would ask you to be brief in time, Mr Plakatakis. You made use of the dentistry. Tolerance from the Bureau exists, I do not think you all have a complaint. I'm not telling you. Here you go, Mr. Placiotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we certainly have become neither wiser nor obviously understand the size of the problem, which you have also created in your unwise policy and, of course, you are deliberately trying to disorientate once again the Greek Parliament and to hide the weaknesses of your policy. And you did all this when? Mediation of the tourist season. I asked you a specific question, and I told you: Since the Court of Auditors forbids you to proceed to the next two months, what will you do? Of course, this attitude, Minister, creates a great many questions and confirms and intensifies, I would say, the concerns of our remote islands. Of course, the introduction of the barren lines is for the sake of strengthening national security, strengthening our national and sovereign rights. You have invoked, Minister, primarily economic grounds and I will agree with you in part. But you cannot accuse the New Democracy of severing resources and you yourself not by tendering for a tender, but by direct assignment, 20 million euros to give...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u132	Think we'd do it normally with 39 million or more...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u133	It's a direct assignment, Minister. You've got a closed competition. You did a rough competition and gave 20 million to the same companies, which you accuse the New Democracy of giving four years ago. Mercy! He wants, you know, very courageous to blame New Democracy. This is where I want to say, where the funding of the barren lines comes from. From the'stamp', Minister, the end of modernisation and development of airports. And the question is as follows: Since you say that there are specific problems because according to the document you put to the 'DENMARK' the selection criterion was the lowest financial compensation requested, why do you not allow more companies to participate in this tender, so that you can achieve a lower financial compensation? I really wonder, Minister, if you're proud of this policy. Because the new ethos and the new style, announced by SYRIZA, are obviously not reasonable and policies of the Polakis type, unless you want to establish a new policy with the new spirit and the new style, the statusive style of SYRIZA. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Minister, I really would like you to explain to me whether you have realised that, through this reduction in routes, in particular, in the islands of the Dodecanese and Aegean, the clause of islands is being abolished and you realise that this will bring about a significant, crucial blow to the economic and social development of our islands. I now come to the issue of reducing the state subsidy from EUR 47 million to EUR 12 or 14 million. I imagine that already as the civil aviation services have been informed, there is an increase in this amount. I want you to tell me this: First of all, how did the reduction occur? I'll tell you how the reduction in state funding has occurred. Obviously, Minister, because you were waiting for it to end up or not end up in the privatization of airports, and you yourself said, when you finally signed the concession, that you did not believe it, but unfortunately you must go ahead with it. Finally, do you decide: Are you or are you not in favour of demilitarisation? Are you or aren't you in favour of privatisation? We are waiting for a clear and clear answer. We, Minister, believe in privatization and privatisation because they also ensure the public interest, ensure investment for the country. While there's no government funding, how else can you modernise the country's public infrastructure? Of course, you tell me how to ensure the grant of the barren lines. Tell me in particular. And I want you to ensure here tonight the National Representation and the critics and islanders, who are listening to us, whether the competition will end on 30 September. Tell us a certain timeline!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u134	How will you ensure that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u135	When we become a government, we'll tell you! You tell us where you are today, the Minister responsible, whether we will have a contract on 30 September. And if we don't have a contract, what about it? Make a commitment here, tonight clearly, if there will be a contract on September 30th! We in the New Democracy have said - and I have said so in my prototype and in all my fellow Members - that we are not negative in discussing any useful changes in the existing legal framework. Obviously, there should also be rationalisation and interconnection with the coastline and the water road, which colleagues have referred to from all the sides of this House. Obviously, we need to come to an agreement. But don't say that you're rationalizing while you're directly giving 20 million to the same companies! And do not accuse us of having established practices and concepts, you are paradoxically giving an extension of six months, you are making a two-month round of tenders, the Court of Auditors is coming and controls you for these contracts. At this time, the two-month contracts are a good one and you do not give any specific answer at all. Tell us, Minister, specific answers. Finally, what I want to stress is that the issue of barren lines is not just an economic one. Because you in your protology have only referred to rationalisation and reduction of state expenditure. Minister, this is not just an economic issue. It's mostly national. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Consolas has the floor. Mr. Consola, will you speak from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u137	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u138	You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I listened carefully to your report and I expected you to give an answer to the pathogens created by your own policy. Unfortunately, you have not done so and unfortunately we have all seen, Minister, that you are trying to find guilty men and people who pursue the government, enemies of the government. Minister, I do not know if it is us, the Members, who have tabled this timely question, your enemies. You must imply that enemies are local communities too, because you have asked us why we are upsetting the world! Are we upsetting the world, Minister? I have submitted to you a number of municipal council decisions that attest to their anxiety, concern and opposition. Minister, the pan-Hellenic one sees us. I inform you that tomorrow almost all of them on the Aegean Islands and the Dodecanese islands meet the municipal councils to decide on this and give you another message. But it seems, Minister, that you are continuing to deceive. And you continue with them because you have probably decided unilaterally, without discussing with the local communities, without making any decisions with the agreement of the local communities. You gave no answer, Minister, of what I've submitted to you in my prototype. You have to answer the Kasteloriers, because you are reducing by seventy-eight a year the time, Minister. Of the two hundred ninety-eight routes, you reach the total of two hundred twenty. There are seventy-eight reductions in total. So where do you push them? Going across to take the plane "TURKISH AIRLINES" to come to the mainland?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u140	One week.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u141	Are you sending this message to them? Are these motions unnecessary? Really, what kind of conciliation was there before the specific plan of the Civil Aviation Service was published? Was there a consultation? Has there been consultation with the Government? And you know what, even if so, to deny us a whole, tell us what study this unilateral government decision was based on with all that you have submitted. As I said before, we have begun this question in good faith. Because this criticism may have been made - if we described it that way - we had also used it in the previous period, when we were fellow MEPs. And I am asking you a relevant timely question, which I had tabled to ensure the operation of regional routes in relation to revenues and'spots'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] I would like to remind you, therefore, that part of the revenue, which is currently being saved from the deposit of the'slaughterhouse' by 2024, will go to the state-owned corps, to the company, which manages the regional airports and that part of the revenue, if it wishes to, the government can support regional airports and barren lines. Will you, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u142	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u143	I am referring, Minister, to the end of modernisation and development of airports. That's what I'm talking about. And I don't know if you deliberately avoided stressing it. Previously, Mr. Placiotakis said so. Maybe you don't believe it yet? I don't know. We, Minister, want to remind you that for us it is very important, as far as the design or redesign of flight services is concerned, to have a geopolitical and national character. You did not even reply to this border linking line between Mytilini and Rhodes what you intend to do. It has a national symbolism, Minister. You also did not, apparently, include the economic and anthropographic characteristics of each island, as you did not include the separation of subsidies for permanent residents, Minister, and visitors, the conditions of geographical isolation and the problems associated with it. Let me remind you that many times I and Mr Santorinios and other islanders, who are here, have been excluded from the islands for days, weeks. The only means was the plane, when it was possible, but this too often is not flying due to weather. These lines are going to be abolished, where is the breath and hope of the islanders? In addition, Mr Minister, I would remind you of the document that I tabled as an example for Karpathos. There is a growing trend in flights and visitors. With the policy that you are following, I am afraid that in the next few years' account you will be in the difficult position because you signed the tombstone of growth and social upheaval, since that is what the Dodecanese and the islands need right now. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u144	A little attention in time, please. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, first of all I have to agree with you that during the two seasons, winter and summer, you are making three of them. I personally think that this measure is right. Of course, I have not received any answers to the questions I have raised and I would ask you if you can then answer them. I would like to say that the free movement of citizens and uninterrupted access to their private homes is a social asset and therefore it is the social state's obligation to facilitate this access, much more for the islands for which the constitutional clause exists - an obligation for the state to take special measures to help island regions. Of course, the cost was great. However, it depends on the participation of the companies taking part in the tender since they are part of the tender. It is not right to say what you said - I say exactly as you said - that 'for these barren lines, specific companies have been selected' because you may have given the impression that there was some sort of overlapping of the Ministry that made the competition with the companies at the time. Since there is a tendering procedure, it could well reduce costs. The President, Mr Plakkatakis, said that the cost was higher over these days. Indeed, it was longer in our day, but it was far more flying. Let me also mention to you, for my special homeland, that on the barren line of Thessaloniki - Limnos - Ikaria, 11 flights were made weekly, five in the low season, six in the high season, and now nine, respectively, two, three and four. So here's why the cost is reduced. In the other barren line, Lemnos - Mytilini - Chios - Samos - Rhodes, there were ten flights, five in the low and five in the high season and only six have been made. That's why the cost has been reduced. I am thinking much more of Lemnos, where there is a huge problem both for the country's economy and for access. We had this problem with regard to maritime transport. Fortunately the previous ministers, both Mr Varvitsiotis and Mr Dritsa, resolved this issue. I think that you, too, can, with appropriate sensitivity, resolve this issue for the islands concerned. You also referred to the cost of international flights by comparing Greek airlines with foreign flights. It's true, but it's related to various parameters. What are these parameters? First of all, if the flight is directly or in response, it is the quality of the services offered, the type of aircraft and, of course, the sense of security created by a company to a company. I raised and saw these prices. You said about Moscow, let's say, the Russian airline costs 178 euros, the Turkish EUR 192 and the Greek EUR 261. Yes, but French has 300 euros, which are direct flights, while others are in response. Paris. You said 178 Turkish...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u146	That's not true. Just Turkish subsidizing the airlines.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u147	And so if so, you only referred to the companies that have less costs than the Greeks. There are higher costs. For London, Turkish has 158 euros, Greek 204, but German has 213 euros. In any case, it is the responsibility of the passenger to choose with which company he will travel. What you said about whether the Thessaloniki-Kalamata line is subsidized, I think it's at zero cost, without compensation. Please indicate that on fourteen flights on a given line they traveled thirty-nine passengers, on twelve flights twenty-three passengers, on thirteen flights on five passengers. What should be done if someone needs to travel from their island to Athens, why would he possibly want to attend a social event, which could be a funeral of a relative or a disease - which does not have an emergency character to take a Dakota to him - or why does he have to travel abroad? Do these passengers have to wait on an instant island to gather so many to fill a plane? I think it is too much of an example you have used. I would like to close, Minister, the issue of the remote islands, and I am referring specifically to the islands of the north and south Aegean. They're sensitive areas. There's protection from the Constitution. We would like there to be greater sensitivity in terms of state, sensitivity to the one shown by the governments of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, we will take a three-minute break at the request of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue with the abstractions of the honourable Members. Mr. Mitaris has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the speech of the Minister, but also of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, was particularly revealing. He showed an Athenian culture, disregarding the notion of islandity and the particular issues that islanders experience in their everyday lives. What I was most surprised at was the Minister's insistence on accounting, which I do not question. This is a purely memorial logic which does not surprise us after the switch of SYRIZA to a Memorandum Party, but again, on the accounting issue, I would like to say that our country must make some choices. And it is an important national and economic choice for islands. I would remind you, Minister, that there have been some extreme voices from the International Monetary Fund years ago which wondered why small islands are inhabited since it is not economically useful. That's dangerous. I understand that it costs 47 million to connect these islands and that it is a cost to today's reality, but we cannot ignore these national reasons. I was also particularly impressed by what you said and I warned you about in my speech to change the record - you are now government - and not just commenting on the past. You said something prototype, that you've only been ruling for eight months. It reminds me, Madam President, of what Harry Clin said in the 1980s: 'Excuse me, but before you again, you were.' And sixteen months you have a responsibility for this matter that we are discussing today. You say we make people worry. You're right. We have told the world that a new memorandum will be signed and that reduced VAT on the islands will be abolished. And it became one and the other. We said that the compelling of cooperatives, which we discussed here a few weeks ago, would be abolished, and it was already abolished in Samos. We're the ones scaring the world! We said that new taxes would be introduced and taxed in the hotels, which also affects the islands. We were scaring the world! You said, Minister, that we should talk about differences. To talk about differences. In our own days the twenty - eight barren lines were operated and were financed normally. That's a certain difference. Because in your speech you said nothing that would give us a security that would be the competition. You spoke of a reduction in expenditure. I see, Minister, that the contract you have entered is much more expensive than ours. The Ministry today pays much more, essentially, because the cost of fuel has collapsed. And when these contracts were signed, many years ago, they were at a completely different fuel cost. And today, with these reduced amounts of money you say, the profitability of the routes without having the official information - you give it to us - is definitely more uploaded. What I was also surprised at is the comment you made on the many stops on routes. Take the route Rhodes - Samos - Chios - Mytilini - Lemnos. If I understood what you said, Minister, the citizen of Chios who has to go to Mytilini, because there is the location of the region, the seat of the DU, the seat of the IKA - all the major public services in the northern Aegean - are located in Mytilini - will fly with this plane from Chios to Mytilini and then Mytilini will have to go back to Rhodes and wait one or two days to start this route again, to go to Rhodes - Samos and back to his home. He's going to swim sooner, Minister! And this concept of barren lines, which you rightly said were full of 50%, is to serve this island. To close, before you warn me, Madam President, about the time, to come back to an issue that we have discussed many times in this Chamber on many topical questions, to which you are asking me the honour of answering, about the airport in Chios. Although expropriation was completed in December 2014, the tender for the creation of the new runway has not yet been completed. Because of this, almost all charter flights have been cancelled for this summer. Chios will not have foreign tourism this year, only from internal lines, and that is why it is crucial for Chios, as for the other Aegean islands, to maintain these barren lines. Let us know, Minister, that the contest will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. Mr. Cavadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in your protology you have given us financial arguments for the curtailment of routes. We do not disagree with the need to rationalise airborne lines. But it is not just economical. Airborne lines are also a matter of national importance. We cannot leave our islands and islands out. As our parliamentary representative has rightly said, Mr Constantine Karamanlis, we are a unique island country with hundreds of inhabited islands that must not be cut off. We must continue to support them especially in our day, where Turkey's policy is more pronounced in the Aegean and there is a problem with migratory flows. Your parliamentary representative said earlier that we should not worry about the competition. But we did not hear you commit to preventing the time limits for the competition. Do you guarantee that all the lines will not be blown up in the air? I would also repeat what Mr Plakatakis said earlier: can you guarantee us, Mr Minister, that there will be contractors on 1 October? You know this is an international competition and procedures require time. It takes at least six months to complete the contest and if anyone objects, then what happens? Do you pledge that our islands will not be isolated from the rest of the country? I didn't hear you say anything about the fares either. Will the fare increase? Allow me to make an important point about the Aktio line - Sitia in my area. From two routes in winter and three in summer, cut them on two routes and winter and summer. You are cutting off a summer route, for the most important months, from a line that serves Lefkada, Ioannina and a large part of Epirus. In other words, you are isolating the area even more tourists. Minister, on the end of the day, I want you to take a serious look at this and see all my remarks, but also all my colleagues, because this is a very critical matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Bukouros has the floor. Mr. Bukkaro, you're the last. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u154	Minister, you know that a topical question is a wonderful opportunity for deep parliamentary scrutiny, but also for a fruitful debate on important issues that concern Greek citizens. You have chosen the familiar tactics of the SYRIZA ministers, the 'typology'. That's what you've been chasing, that's what you did with selective use of numbers and data, attempting to slander your predecessors and adjust reality to your own measures. Minister, you have not responded to the main points of the topical question. The main points of the question are whether our islands will have the same service, if the movement and accessibility of our islands are not affected, if the fares are increased with the new agreement you are bringing. In any case, you have confined yourself to making impressions. Nor did you say too little or too much that the previous government was funding a specific businessman, Minister. Report to Mr. Vgenopoulos. I would remind you that while the Olympic Airways were state-owned, they were flying with damage to the barren line in order to serve residents. By privatization, the subsidisation of the barren line continued with the specific businessman you mentioned and not that it was the choice of the previous government. Because that's what you let it be. Three new airlines then appeared, taking part in this competition in recent years. The same goes for your competition. However, where does it come from, when for six months you pay 20 million euros, while for an annual grant the total cost was EUR 47 million? Minister, you said that a million thousand seats were subsidised and finally the five hundred sixty-five thousand seats were filled. My evidence is different. I have evidence - I am not sceptical to present them to you right now - that seven hundred and fifty thousand passengers were moved to the barren line. This means subsidising EUR 62 and not EUR 460, as you were saying to create impressions in your protology. Of course, making selective use of evidence for the sake of impressions is easy, but it does not actually provide for discussion. You have not told us anything about your new design, despite the persistent questions from colleagues and the questions you have put to you by showing that you understand them in another way. I told you about my constituency, Skiathos, that this line serves three islands. In your design, the trips from two hundred fifty two become two hundred. So we have cutbacks. Along with all the other measures you have taken, such as the abolition of reduced VAT, the increase in the night's fee - the Prime Minister transferred it for 2018 - you eliminate islandity. Generally, you choke tourist development. As far as Anchialos Airport is concerned, Minister, it is not the demand of local society or I made a request for an internal link. I have asked to know - because the debate is not entirely irrelevant - what your plans are for the development of a major infrastructure serving tourists a million people, Thessaly, Pieria, Evia and so many regions. You replied to me: 'You haven't even put one line in forty years'. But that's not the request, Minister. This request was understood by you at your meetings with local actors and by my position? In any case, do not rock too easily these forty years. For many years, you have been a technical adviser to the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u155	But we were talking. Who was listening to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u156	But you were saying, okay. Now, what you were saying and what happened is of importance too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u157	Finish it, Mr. Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u158	I shall conclude, Madam President. Minister, I regret to say that you have not taken the opportunity to have a fruitful debate on our islanders, on the two hundred nine inhabited islands, which are not only economic, but also national, especially at this time. We must be very careful in our plans, especially when they are cut off from the trunk in every way these islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u159	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, one of you said we were enemies. We do not feel that way, especially with the present Members of the New Democracy. Besides, I don't think anyone has ever asked for information or cooperation to the Ministry and for it to be refused. But I would also like to thank you for an additional reason. Once again, you show the Greek people that he did the right thing to vote for SYRIZA and this government came out and I will explain why. Thank God you remind him every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u161	Make an election again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u162	We may not have the media reminding it, but - thank God - you are the ones who say what you believe and how we go further. You made a report to Constantine Karamanlis. Only Constantine Karamanlis did not sell Olympics or airports. He's been privatizing. I remind you of your historical memory. We have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u163	Let Costas Karamanlis answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u164	Sure. Let Costas Karamanlis answer. I hope it affects Mr Mitsotakis in this direction, because he is in another direction. Secondly, you asked a question about the proceedings. Listen. This is not the first time the Court of Auditors has asked for additional information to first degree. But there's one thing when you call it in. Is the negotiation process a direct assignment? Is it a direct assignment? You are criticised by saying that they went EUR 19 million for six months with this procedure. Has it bothered you that by this procedure we are 33% cheaper and an airport, when you in the competition process were more expensive? Has that ever really bothered you? Honestly answer me. Has it bothered you that by an open, public procedure you were more precise than the direct negotiation, and at an airport, not only the price, which you do not want to mention? We will mention it again, since with the donation made by one company, which made 33% less priced by negotiation, the airport in Paros will also operate in July. Do you have it for a while? Where you were giving 4.5 million in the normal procedure! Hasn't he bothered you? It's okay. He has troubled the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u165	Lawyer!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u166	Lawyer! These procedures and this institutional framework have not changed it, we inherited it from you. Now we're going to change it, with the two bills coming for public procurement and public works. You made some reports. And it is really useful to have such a debate in Parliament. Let me remind you of what you have done or let you know what you have done with your legislative work and the procedures you have planned.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u167	Except we... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u168	Thank you so much! I was listening to you as Holy Mary! You predicted the privatisation of the country's 14 profitable airports, i.e. the OSH will lose revenues of more than EUR 160 million per year. No - obviously - in the interests of the State! And you come today, after we have found the contract ready and the lenders have imposed that we will continue with the same contract, with the same draft contract that you have prepared, and you tell us 'where will you find money for the barren lines?' Amazing! The second thing you've got is this. You say: 'Kastelorizo', 'national issues' and so on. Let me remind you that in addition to the privatisation of regional airports, you have also passed a draft law on the PSC. This bill provides that the remaining twenty-five airports, which are in deficit, must go to a public limited company which, according to what you have voted on, cannot be subsidised. There cannot be a public limited company that will be subsidized - which will be a deficit - nor with 1 euro. You have voted for this. So, what do you anticipate? You are planning to close Kastelorizo, close the other regional airports on the remote islands and stay another three - four that can be sustainable. You have voted for these in the previous period when you were government. And you come telling us today really about national issues? So, have you set up the whole framework to close twenty-five regional airports that stayed in the state and leave us for that? And so that there is no misunderstanding about all that has been worried about local societies, I will say: First of all, no increase in fares is going to happen, because when you put the barren lines, you have a wall of what the citizen pays. Secondly - and I will reply to the other questions you have raised - on what our commitments are: firstly, we have given and completed the consultation plan - the Civil Aviation Service has done this - on barren lines. On what criteria? First of all, we must not cut any barren lines. Have you guys seen the consultation plan stop a line?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u169	- Sitia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u170	- Sitia! I mean, listen to what you're saying. Look out! I said it in my first talk. The "tree" of the Etanus and Zakynthos - Kythera, three times the subsidy, zero passengers. Rhodes - Sitia: Let's see the Rhodes - Sitia what it has and why it's done. - I'm asking! - why do some companies have 'basic stations' in places where trains are the highest subsidized? Have you seen the loads, that is, the transports that passengers have, the things you've put in? We're talking about connecting the islands of the northern Aegean. It's not abolished, Mr. Athanasios. What is abolished is Rhodes after, with very little traffic, because it is served by a company to have a parking base there. So, to sit down and see what studies did we rely on? We relied on passenger traffic, passengers, citizens, tourists, everyone who moved last year and before. We said, firstly - and we commit ourselves to this - that no line is cut. Secondly, there will be over-covered, with the frequencies we will give, the routes that will serve real travel. I note that there will be no barren line with less than three movements a week in winter. This summer we're talking about six trips a week. You had a really nice program: seven, seven, six. So who said that? Mr. Amyras! - It's really, really nice to travel alone on planes, but if you pay, not the Greek people. I imagine you, as Members of the New Democracy, have experienced it very often, and the rest of you, if you move along these lines, be on your own plane. Not even the flight attendant will be. They'll only have the pilot with zero passengers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u171	Let go of these! Passengers pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u172	These routes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u173	Isn't the islander paying?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u174	Not on these routes, the Greek people pay all three companies win.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u175	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u176	The Greek people also include the people who are in the remote regions and in the islands of Greece. It's like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u177	It's not like that, it's not all the Greek people!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u178	Do you think this is the Memorandum Policy? But it is! I'll tell you later. The routes will increase in the spring months and will further increase in summer. These are our commitments. I also note that we streamline the routes in the series, that is to say it does not make four landings and take-offs on a number of islands and then another so far backwards. There's no reason to do this. There's no reason to do this!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u179	How will the passenger who makes the route from alpha to beta return? Is he going to circle around, like, when he goes to Lemnos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u180	No, he'll go directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u181	Please, no dialogue, because time goes on like this!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u182	It is not difficult to understand, Mr Mitarakis. It won't make five more landings and take-offs or four or whatever it is. It's not hard! Well, I note that, with the savings we make, we have 70% reduction in the costs of the Greek public, that is to say, what the Greek people pay, without cutting off a single barren line from what you have designed as barren lines. In order to be fully aware, to put in a new barren line - which is the second phase we commit ourselves to doing these - a new route, namely where there really is a need, then it must go to the community with study and obtain approval. So today we are talking about the existing barren lines, which will be completed, in the autumn we will have the final results and the companies that have won and, of course, at a much lower cost. The fourth point I would remind you - I said it in my first speech, because they told me that you did not say what you were going to do, and what were you committed? - is that we have already started with our own planning, not only on the barren air lines, but in conjunction with the Ministry of Shipping in relation to the barren lines of the coastline. It can't be unconnected with each other as we inherited it. Of course, there must be a supervisory relationship in relation to the waterways. You're asking me what happened with the waterways, Mr. Amyras. They had left zero permits and hadn't proceeded with the proceedings. Now, and the procedures are moving forward - there have already been some permits - and we are also bringing in a draft law on the waterways. Wait a minute, because I want to find in my notes about the questions and the places you've made, if there's anything left unanswered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u183	For the competition, I'd like to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u184	For the contest?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u185	Will the contest be completed by September 30th?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u186	Of course, it will be completed by 30 September and will be an international, public, tender. The consultation's over on Friday, now. Are you asking me if there was a consultation? The Civil Aviation Department didn't make it in the air? Did you have another consultation with the citizens and another with the municipalities? First of all, you remember being consulted, because I remember that you did not consult the previous government or the draft law very importantly. For privatization, I've said it before whether I'm in favour or against. I'm against, but we're committed as government to getting the country out of this crisis. He said something, Mr Athanasios, this is a very important issue for comparing it with the cost of Turkish air fares in relation to Greek or French, which is even higher. This was also at the last meeting of the Transport Ministers. This is a very important issue, because that really seems to be how neoliberalism has been sanctified at European level. Until recently, then, what was the doctrine that has brought us here all these years? To reduce labour costs, competitiveness, not to have state subsidies, all of this. We have been put and sold - you agree, we disagree - the Olympics where you sold it, and we sell all fourteen airports. Very good. So the core of Europe is now coming and says: 'Children, problem, there is a central deal with foreign air carriers for who comes to Europe, that is to say, we do not have bilateral negotiations with third countries, because this phenomenon is being observed: Turkey is subsidising airports - you see where Istanbul has arrived - and its airlines. China does the same. The Gulf countries do the same. So Europe's airports and airlines don't...' In other words, the essence of your policy, what you propose and what you think, has failed at European level and it is time, really, to sit down and see how as a European society we have to turn to the old principles and values that Europe has, that is, how we protect the citizen, how we protect the people, how we protect other things, so that we do not get to where we have arrived and even worse with neoliberal logic. You're asking me where we're going to draw the resources. The resources will be drawn from the development of the regional airports, which remain in public and can be developed, such as Paros, such as Syros, which we signed up to its expansion and upgrading, such as the other islands of the Cyclades, such as Kastoria, which is an airport that can be exploited, such as Chios, but not by the expansion of the airports. By making the demolitions of what we have said and because of the well-known strike, we cannot make any moves. What we are committed to will be done. They're scheduled, we're committed and we're moving on. However, we are not in the sense of abolishing strikes. We respect them and disagree. Of course, you are asking me where we are going to draw the resources from and you are even talking about wastefulness, when in your contract for wastefulness, for the fourteen regional airports, you have not excluded the barren lines. In fact, if anyone knows what's going on in this space, he's wondering what you're saying, if what you've done a year ago, you know it. I am sure the Members of the New Democracy, who are here, did not even know about them. You have pledged the country to miserable conventions, to disgusting realities, and you come now and ask us for the change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u187	You signed them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr Plakkatakis, for the honour you have given us, for preparing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u189	Why didn't you change them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, really.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u191	Minister, you have exceeded all times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u192	I'm finishing up, just like I'm done with my first talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u193	No, and dentistry. It was ten minutes plus six minutes, sixteen minutes total.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u194	You are absolutely right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u195	You have fully covered the time by the sixteen, seventeen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u196	We are committed not only to maintaining the specific barren lines we have, but also to expand them. We are committed to an overall planning for the country's barren lines, except this time it will serve the citizen, the passenger, the development of local societies and the country and the public interest and not the interests of the four companies operating in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u197	I think we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u198	Madam President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u199	You want, Mr. Karamanlis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u200	He's got dentology, tritology...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u201	No tritology will never happen again. Let's have a sense of measure. Here, Mr Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u202	I will not tire you against the Minister. I sense his embarrassment. That's why it took so much time to answer. I will try to be brief, simple and comprehensive. First of all, let's put things in order. Minister, we are not talking about privatization of regional airports. We're talking about a concession. So let's put things in a row. And in any case, Minister - I have listened very carefully and I have not interrupted you - as Mr Plakatakis quite rightly said, if this contract is so bad, why have you not changed it? It is a very simple question and it is a good thing that the left-wing MPs understand that they are not fighting and that they are ruling. I also want to tell you two other things. In fact, you have not answered us about this extra-institutional procedure. There's a disagreement here. We should put her on her right base. You say it was a negotiation process without publication.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u203	Not without publication.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u204	The fact that it was published for twenty-four hours is practical without publication. I always admire the left because he finds very smart ways to say things in a different way. This, in fact, in our own language and mind, is direct assignment. And that is what I will tell you, Minister, that you yourself have done it yourself. Do you know when?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u205	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u206	In the question tabled by Mr Theocharopoulos a few months ago. You replied on 29/02 via the commander of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Lingerakou, and said: ‘For the operation of the 26 scheduled air services to which public service obligations have been imposed, their operation has been entrusted to Greek airlines and the contracts concerned have been signed, the validity of which expires on 31-03-2016.’ In the Minutes, I answer your question. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] You, Minister, and your government what are you doing? You're actually undoing what you said a few months ago, a few weeks ago. In other words, you are giving the extension. You're saying we've wasted taxpayers' money in the past. First of all, we're talking about ending. I will tell you why it will be cheaper if all the procedures for the new contract are successful. First of all, there is a significant reduction in fuel prices and the amount available from the revenues of the waste. There's 33%, which you say is your discount. But you're not answering the obvious again. The 2011 contract that was a contract prepared by the PASOK government and signed by Mr Vorides - because he had no other possibility - as the Minister of Transport of the Government of Papademos, despite her problems - and I told you that I was here and I would be as self-critical as you wish, your side did not make self-criticism - was signed and made by a tendering procedure. These 45 million were therefore given in transparent procedures. We can just sit around and fight about whether that money was too little, whether that money was too much. At least, however, there was a procedure which was legal. In your case, Minister, what you are doing is a process of the press - and I am sorry to say it - 'we are deciding and ordering'. You are actually giving EUR 19.8 million in procedures that are opaque. So, rhetorical question: How do you blame the previous ones when you do exactly the same and worse? Another question, perhaps the Minister of Finance or someone from the State's General Accounting Office, should have answered us: This is in line with the provisions of public software for the control of state expenditure, or will we have problems? But, Minister, what is pleasant from the debate - because I want to close with a positive tone - is that there has been a dialogue, which, although we have often disagreed, I believe, has been constructive on its biggest point, because there is a concern here about what is going to happen with the new convention. You can assure us that there will be no problem. I really want to believe your assurance, but hold on to the back of your mind that we are talking about summer months, about strikes by lawyers and a process that is really on the limit, and none of us wants to get to the point in two, three or four months to talk about these problems. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. We, Minister, do not care about the courgettes. We are interested in solving the problem and jointly correcting the mistakes of the past. So, redesign the whole process, I wish you could do it, and here we and I as Head of Division will be, to help you and propose practical solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u208	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u209	Minister, you have the floor to close the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u210	Let's go again for the proceedings and for what you've testified. Of course, the tender signed by Mr Vorides, which expired on 31 March, as we have answered, is without possibility of extension. If it had the possibility of prolonging, we would not have spoken, we would have given an extension and it would have been over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u211	You knew it was until 31 March. You're not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u212	Let's get back to you. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesperson has said so too. You signed a contract for the concession and not for the privatisation of the fourteen regional airports for for forty plus ten years. I mean, from us here, there's probably no one. That's very nice. So it's not privatization, it's a concession. Secondly, in this procedure that was signed it is laid down that at some point the conditions of the competition are so good! - they should be delivered to the majority consortium. That is what the consortium defines. The consortium defined it in January and defined it as being November 2016. So if we wanted to have a competition for barren lines, that was the first thing we had to take into account. That's the first. I'm not talking about the other problems. I'm not saying how we found the Civil Aviation Service, how you handed it over. I am not saying what the problems of airport works were, that we had neither auditors at the Civil Aviation Service nor technical staff. That's all out of the way. The civil aviation workers know them and the citizens who have been living for the abandonment of airports all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u213	And now he doesn't even have toilet paper?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u214	Let me tell you. Toilet paper may not have, but the Pallas system was signed up, the radio aids are working, the airports that certify exist and operate. All this was stopped, Mr. Plakatakis. All this was detestable. Even the planes couldn't fly. At some point the Greek people really need to know what we have found and thank you very much for highlighting what we have found and what we are doing. Secondly, Mr Karamanlis, you have an open invitation from the Ministry whenever you want to cooperate on all matters within the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure that you are monitoring and in your responsibility. After all, you and the other colleagues who are watching the ministry from the other parties will be invited to work together and to inform you of the two draft laws that we have both on public works and on public procurement. We also have a draft law on the Civil Aviation Service which will then come about after the necessary treatment. I really hope that we will overthrow the mistakes of the past of the previous government together. If we do not go to a revision of the institutional framework, we will lead to the closure of the Kastelorizo airport, at least. I appeal to the Members of the Dodecanese. You cannot come and support what status we have found when you have voted for things that would lead to the closure of regional airports. In addition, tell us about national reasons. There, therefore, the New Democracy must put a substantial back on the government, so that we can actually overturn what you have committed to the country. And that's why the invitation is open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on number 23/17/22-3-2016 of eight New Democracy Members to the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the delay in the notice and implementation of the competition for infertile air services. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Friday 12 February 2016 and Wednesday 24 February 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u216	The Minutes of Friday 12 February 2016 and Wednesday 24 February 2016 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-05-16-S1-commons.u217	With the consent of this House at 23.04; the sitting is closed tomorrow, May 17, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda that has been distributed.
