ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 14-9-2016, the minutes of the PPA's PPA's proceedings were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Wednesday, 14 September 2016, with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] 1. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Transboundary Police Cooperation and other provisions’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Principle of the Tripartite Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in tourism’. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, today is the World Democracy Day. There will be a relevant speech from the Bureau and we shall proceed to the rest of the items on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Bureau of the Greek Parliament I would like to present some thoughts on the International Democracy Day, which we are honouring today. The celebration of the International Day of Democracy is an initiative of the interparliamentary union of a global body of action involving the parliaments of too many countries of the world, including the Greek Parliament of course. International Democracy Day aims to coordinate the institutions of democracy worldwide and of course citizens towards demanding democratic freedoms and strengthening democratic institutional achievements, such as, of course, parliamentism and popular sovereignty. At the same time, we are also paying tribute to the fighters of democracy, thanks to whom we enjoy the goods of freedom, peace and political stability, at least where they exist and thrive. This anniversary obliges us to reflect on the concept and content of democracy, to reflect on the seemingly contradictory, namely that democracy for the first time in the long term has had almost universal regulatory and State stability, at least in the so-called developed world, and at the same time to be dispersed with a sense of inadequacy, inefficiency and dedication, politically and morally, in the consciences of the citizens, who understand that their key decisions about the present and future have been shifted and shifted daily more and more from the area of constitutionally established popular sovereignty and their elected representatives to an uncontrolled globalised capitalist market, under the guidance of uncontrolled, therefore and non-democratic legalised supranational organisations as well as financial toying, banks and uncontrolled globalised business activities. At this point it would be advisable to revert to the original importance of the word 'democracy'. Democracy does not mean, for example, human rights or lack of censorship or elections. I have to tell you that in ancient Greece the concept of democracy was not specific to the elections, as the rulers were raised with lots and elections only when we had certain specialties, such as generals or manufacturers and others. All the above are a consequence of democracy. Democracy is the state of the municipality and municipality is the people. So democracy is the power of the municipality, to which ontologically it belongs in all forms of democracy, dominance, which, through the market, in the classic sense of the word, i.e. free public collective consultation, forms the public political sphere, the symbolic place where this dominance is exercised. Without a market, there is no policy, there are no citizens, only loathsome masses, politically nonexistent. When Thucydides wants to characterize a city as free, he characterizes it as selfish, selfless, selfless and selfish. He is the autonomous one who gives himself laws that he does not accept from someone else. It is a self-declared city, which is itself, that is to say it has its own courts, the only authority responsible for monitoring the respect of the laws. And he is self-evident in so far as he governs himself. Thus, power in the sense of government in ancient Greeks at the end is the rulers, that is, a state, a group of citizens who govern themselves. Therefore, if we are not autonomous, self-righteous and self-evident, we cannot live in democracy, we cannot say that we live in democracy. This is a theory not of separation, but of the interconnection of powers, which differs from the modern concept of division of power into legislative, judicial and executive. The division of Thucydides is much more complete because it distinguishes within the power of law, judicial and government function, as what is nowadays called executive power is actually merging this purely government power with an administrative function, a purely executive function, which consists in the concrete definition of options that are defined in their general context by law. So today we have government power rather than executive with the meaning we give. Thus, within the enlarged municipality, a basic democratic requirement for freedom and equality and social solidarity is being established, which remains largely a requester. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about equality, we are not talking about the uniformity of individuals in society. We are talking about equality which is politically important, namely equality of opportunity for everyone to actually participate in the establishment of society and the exercise of any powers in this society. You know that equality within the existing system always remains a matter for formality, as it stands at the supposed equal opportunities provided. You know that equal opportunities have no impact when they are offered to people who start with unequal startings or, as Aristotle said, "There is nothing more unequal than equal treatment of equals." In view of the above, I do not know what content we are entitled to give to the World Day of Democracy today. Ladies and gentlemen, now that we are more than five billion people on Earth, you know that it is a question of whether there are five hundred, six hundred or over seven hundred million people living in countries where hunger is not a day-to-day problem, where persecution, imprisonment, freedom is not a day-to-day reality. Even in these economicly developed and politically, let us say, liberal countries, the situation, while it seems almost sustainable, is in fact hopeless. And it's hopeless, because everyone unfortunately doesn't look farther from their noses. The problems that humanity faces today are huge. I think that the six-week, if not the seven eighths of the world, are living today in a situation of poverty and enormous oppression. There are still regimes calling themselves democracies, as there it is possible that any African corporator with ten mydraulic guns and twenty jeeps take over power, slaughter his opponents and abundance his people. Beyond that, I wonder: can we talk about democracy by ignoring the ecological dimension on the planet? Can we not refer to the domination of technology, to the change of genetic material - see genetically modified food - to the rearing of cloned animals and not to raise the question of control and, in general, to who is exercising this power, which is not about some population groups, but about the future of the biosphere? You know that the potential danger to all mankind is not just a global or even a nuclear war, but a change in genetic material of plants, animals and a power that does not democratically control its decisions and limits. You know that man is capable of the best and worst. In the history of mankind, great moments have been recorded, such as ancient tragedies, the French Revolution and many others, but also huge moments of fall, such as Hiroshima, Auschwitz, Guantánamo and others. Sophocles says "many evil condensers of man are more inclined." In other words, there is nothing more dreadful and wonderful than man himself. No human or divine law will prevent man from destroying himself if he wishes. If he wants to, he will. The only one who can prevent this disaster is man himself. And Sophocles tells Antigone that what man can do to face all these challenges is the mind. To be able, in other words, wisely to decide on his future. But where the ancient tragedy reaches the highest degree is when it says that not the only mind, each one taking into account the factors to make decisions, but equal to thinking, that is to say all of them meeting a market consultation - as I said before - and in a free and collective way to decide. And the best way to exercise equal thinking is democracy in all its forms. To close this little report, I would say that it is extremely urgent to see how we will contribute to creating a wider peace potential and to end the conflicts that are stifling many more parts of the world. Today is - in the context of which we have said - the day of international action. Peace and democracy are global objectives and in many cases crucial global necessities. The end of warfare internationally is perhaps the most crucial struggle that the world community should give at this time and, as you can see, the huge problem of the millions who lose their homes. In this direction and the Greek Parliament coordinates its action with many important global institutions and fora and takes international initiatives actively involved in the actions of the global peace movement. Let me remind you that such an initiative is also tomorrow's debate on Friday that the friends of Parliament are organizing with the survivors of Japan's nuclear Holocausts, with an extremely topical issue, unfortunately still an issue of international disarmament. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, we are also mentioning this year International Democracy Day in the hope that by the next 15 September the steps that have been taken will be essentially for world peace and greater shielding of democratic and social freedoms throughout the world. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the agenda, we are entering the second item. September 14 - you know - it has been established as National Remembrance Day for the destruction of Asia Minor Hellenism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u2	Genocide of Asia Minor Hellenism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u3	I read you on the agenda. The issues will be referred to in your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u4	Has the President-in-Office changed the order, Mr President? The Presidential Decree speaks of the Remembrance of the Greek Genocide of Asia Minor by the Turkish state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u5	And the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u6	And the law! Has he changed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u7	No, it hasn't changed. But every year on the agenda it says that 14 September has been established as a day of memory. We're talking about the day. The issues you are referring to will be dealt with by the speakers in their speeches. The Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Theodossis Pelgini, will be on behalf of the Government and will be given the floor by the rapporteurs of the parties. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u8	Mr President of the Greek Parliament, the Treaty of Lausanne of 24 July 1923 signed the registration of the Asia Minor Disaster, the biggest tragedy of the modern Greek state. It is not only the fifty thousand dead, the seventy-five thousand wounded war and the more than one and a half million Greek refugees from Asia Minor in the seated then Greece, who are extremely large numbers for Greece of about six million people who reflect the heavy price of the Asia Minor disaster. It is mainly the fact that for the first time Hellenism had to be confined to one side of the Aegean, which states the size of the great tragedy. Hellenism has, of course, succeeded, however unbearable it was the abundance of this national tragedy, to lift it up and move forward. And this is certainly not the only time that Hellenism succeeds in surviving through a disaster. Others were the disasters, sometimes even smaller, either by his own failures or by the attack of others, or by a combination of his own mistakes and attacks on others that Hellenism had to face. This power of his survival Hellenism owes it primarily to his culture. A culture of this kind, so that it does not require the presence of its natural bodies to be supported. In 31 BC, after the battle of the Coast, the Greek state is destroyed on the map there is no Greek state anywhere, there are successively the Roman Empire, the Byzantine Empire, the Ottoman Empire. Just in the 19th century, after the Revolution of 1821, the Greek state is again being created. All these centuries, however, Greek culture, despite the absence of its natural bodies from the map, continues its journey to history. Not like an achievement in the past, a fossil of history, but as a creative force capable of fertilising other cultures, such as the Italian, French, English, German, with two words European culture and even Western civilization in general, so that Greek culture can rightly be considered as the cornerstone of western civilization. Today's memory, which was set following a decision by the House, certainly gives us the opportunity to remember, on the occasion of the Asia Minor Destruction, the successive catastrophes suffered by Hellenism. This is a people whose fate is intertwined with catastrophes, through which we have nevertheless managed to survive. This does not mean, of course, that we must be fatalists, wait, while we remain inactive, the next catastrophe, or self-associated, to be concerned that after we have succeeded in the past, we will also be able to achieve it in the future. What has happened in the past does not mean that it will necessarily be repeated in the future. The future is hammering before us if we do not in the meantime see to it that we take steps to tackle the catastrophe that can rule out that it is likely to occur. So let us think not to calm down the example of the Jewish people. As much as the holocaust generally refers to the persecution and genocide attempted by a state or regime against national, religious, social or political groups acting within a people, the Jews have succeeded in identifying the Holocaust to the tragic fate of their nation, in order to highlight the crimes of the Nazi regime against them with the ultimate aim of causing anger against those who committed their national status and the sympathy of the civilized world for what they suffered. In a similar way, perhaps we could take care of the destruction, constant monitoring of the history of Hellenism. Since it is not about forming a culture and it is therefore a matter of education, the appropriate campaign would be appropriate, perhaps at first instance, to take place from the various levels of education, from the supreme spiritual institution of our country, the Academy of Athens, and the higher education institutions, universities, to the first grades of the municipality. The term catastrophe, the same in Latin languages, in English catastrophe, in French catastrophe, in German Catastrophe, in Italian catastrofe, in Spanish catastrofe, can contribute to the widening of our knowledge. In the climate of sympathy that he wanted was shaped by the correlation between Hellenism and destruction, possibly claiming compensation for what we have suffered because of others can be effective. To show that this claim is a demand for the restoration of law and not a question of confrontation with him or with that people. There is no doubt that the proposed ownership of the catastrophe from Hellenism will take time to achieve the expected result. It is a sign of soundness, ladies and gentlemen, to wait in preparation rather than to speed up unreadable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you to the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Theodosis Pelgini, who spoke on behalf of the government. Mr Athanasios Michelis has the floor for the Radical Left Coalition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, Ministers, honourable Members, honourable guests, another anniversary of refugees today. Greek refugees, displaced, uprooted and murdered by the New Turks. September 1922-September 2016, almost a century after the massacres and the uprooting of the hundreds of thousands of Greeks from Asia Minor, an area of Greek presence and culture since the ancient Greek era. We are therefore called today on to rethink the tragic events and to honour their memory, but - I would complement - and to consider and draw the necessary conclusions for our further journey as a people, as a political system and as a state. Because I think that prices and memories without reflections and conclusions come to the bottom of the flank. Let me be very brief about the data of this time. World War I was over. The intended redistribution of wealth sources, mainly of the Middle East oil, through the redistribution of territories or the emergence of new states has already contributed. Our country, following the national division and its participation in the side of Adad, that is to say the winners, disembarks in 1919 troops in Smyrna in order to protect the Greek population there. The aim of the allies, which were then urged, is further dividing or subjugating the Ottoman Empire. The situations lead to the 1920 Treaty of Serbs, a particularly favourable treaty for our country, but also precarious - I will see - for its future without ally support. The Greek Army is accepted with enthusiasm in Smyrna. However, it is now eighth year in a continuous war situation. In the elections held in 1920 the idle and demagogic slogan of the royals "hospitable" finds a broad popular resonance. Venizelos is defeated. The government of the royals, associated with majesticism, instead of returning home, begins to conquer Ankara. At the same time, the New Turks are reorganized claiming a new state, a Turkish state now. They find a field of understanding with our western allies. International balances, therefore, have already been overturned. The only one who does not understand is the Greek Government. In this data, the result was already set. The first phase of the Greek drama is completed with the retreat, defeat and fire of Smyrna, with thousands of dead and the gradual uprooting of more than one million Greeks from the coasts of Asia Minor. It is the first great defeat of Hellenism as a new Greek state and the collapse of the Greek ideology of great idealism. The second stage of drama is evolving in our own country. The Asia Minor refugees, a general population with a higher level of education than the indigenous people, were an excellent cheap workforce for the Greek capital. Small and medium-sized enterprises have also been added to the latter. They have admittedly been a glowing example of entrepreneurship. At that time of the Middle War, the country had a rapid rate of economic growth, mainly because of this data. But the social problem of the rehabilitation of the Asia Minor refugees has been perpetuated for decades. Indeed, given the fact that the Micro-Scientific politicians were in their overwhelming majority of Venizelic and largely evolved as a result of their new social position in left-wing voters, this was another presumptuous factor for them. Today, almost a century after the events, far from personal experience and beyond the justified or necessary emotional burden, it is necessary to honour the anniversary, honour the thousands dead, honor their sacrifices and struggles for survival, but above all to draw the necessary conclusions. Thucydides, centuries ago, studying the Peloponnese War, concluded that between states there are no enemies and friends, but there are interests that coincide or conflict. Modern international experience teaches that anyone who does not take into account international data, interests that conflict within and outside his country and the order of forces in his country is at risk of being defeated. The political forces, which were dominating the country at that time, Venizelic and royalty, overrated the previous successes of our country and underestimated the international interests and data of the wider region at that time. The king-in-laws, who managed things after their victory in 1920, acted, in the simplest of cases, under the influence of majesticism completely impulsively, data that led to defeat. We honour today with respect and grief the uprooted Greeks of Asia Minor. We don't forget the suffering they have suffered. Their special civilization made him an estate of all of us. Today, as in every age, we have new challenges ahead of us. The Cyprus issue is coming to a solution. What solution? With local troops on the island? Let us face the things that are coming with determination, but with wisdom and courage, with boldness and virtue, with tolerance and humanity to the new refugees and other nationalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind the House, because I fear that it has not been made clear so far, that we honour the victims of the first great genocide of the 20th century, which opened the way to those genocide followed by totalitarian regimes with racist ideology. The genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor by the Turkish state, well-designed and ruthlessly applied, aimed at eliminating the Christians of the East. He intended for the total extinction of the Christian populations, Romans, Armenians, Assyrians, who stood in the way of a homogenized national and religious state of the new Turkey, a state as the leaders of the New Turks envisioned, as well as foreign advisers, to promote their own strong economic and geopolitical interests. There are no doubts that mistakes have been made on our side too. At the most critical moments we have not been united, but instead the national division has been exacerbated, the intersections of the political factions. The result was disastrous, as he entered a sharp and violent perfection in a civilization of thousands of years. Hellenism then experienced one of the greatest tragedies - if not the biggest - of its history. The internal responsibilities do not, however, mitigate the crime committed and, above all, do not declassify it as genocide. For, despite the irresponsible and irresponsible voices heard by governmental actors, abrupt and chronic ideoleptic obsessions, but also incomplete knowledge of historical reality, the persecution of the Greeks of Asia Minor has all the elements of genocide, as defined by the international community. As noted in his report to the State Department, George Horton, United States Consul General in Izmir during the Asia Minor Disaster period, all the massacres carried out in the history of the Turkish people against populations were always ordered by superior authorities and did not constitute an initiative of subordinate officers or spontaneous mob violence. In this way it fully responds to the UN definition of genocide as early as 1948. So those who distort the truth are offering vague services, identified by Turkish arguments. The negligent Minister for Education will one day be a past. However, the damage he caused with his views in the national case of the internationalisation of the genocide request is great. The perpetrator, the Turkish state, will invoke them to dismiss his historic responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the last act of the genocide of the Greeks in Asia Minor was the massacre of Izmir, for which some blasphemously talked about 'cohesion'. Such views - and even more the denial of genocide - are insulting in the memory of the slaughtered but also those who survived persecution and refugee. And I wonder: If now these teratologys are called and written, which is fresh, the memory and the listenings we have of those who have lost our family in the massacre, what will follow later? Because, ladies and gentlemen, today's event does not only have the characteristics of a memorial. We don't come here to cry about the past. History is not just a past. It's a present and, more importantly, a future. Anyone who refuses it does not just scientific abode but above all political error. Today we are honouring the genocide of Greek Asia Minor, mainly because it is a constant crime, which has not yet found its right and will only find it if the Turkish state itself accepts the committing of genocide. This will not only be the justice of the dead and the persecuted. It will also recommend the cessation of the genocide of memory, carried out by the conversion of Byzantine churches into mosques, of Agia Sophia in Nice, of Agia Sophia in Banking, of Agia Sophia in Adrianoupolis. And, of course, it is no accident that every church that turns into a mosque is Saint Wisdom. They don't hide what they want to do and measure reactions to convert to a mosque and this symbol of Ecumenical Orthodoxy and a monument to world civilization, Agia Sophia in the city. But the recognition of the Miratians' genocide will also be a message to those who are today persecuting the Christians of the East, persecution which essentially represents the continuation and completion of the genocide of East Christians in the first decade of the twentieth century in Asia Minor. That is why we call on the negligents of genocide, who are cut off for some of the important white pages of history, to understand their responsibilities and not to black out at least as important. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that Greece of refugee and immigration, despite the economic crisis and by raising a greater part of its responsibility than other European Union countries, must offer access to education for the children of refugees, who are the innocent victims of the war. Therefore, instead of being indifferent to local societies that express concerns, the government must, with a structured plan, convince itself that it can manage the refugee - immigration problem effectively, which has so far not succeeded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u14	Minister, you have the floor for one minute, because we are in another process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u15	We have come here to honor the victims of the Asia Minor disaster, and we must not give rise to disputes between us, but it must be an opportunity to express a sense of national unity. I am sorry that the spokesman for the Officer's opposition has tried today to debate national consensus and national issues - for the future - to turn it into a sterile personal and party dispute. I would like to say that he performs an orderly service to his party. It's the service of killing characters. I'm not going to answer any more. But I think the Greek Parliament should know that this practice of the murder of characters has nothing to do with national unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u17	Here, you have the floor for a minute, Mr Harakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, the statements made by the Minister of Education, who even at this time is not aware of the damage he is causing with his views as a negligent of genocide in the national case of the internationalisation of the call for genocide, the Minister who has removed from the examiner and taught material of the book of History, Paraxinian Hellenism and the references that exist there in the genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor. I regret that, so far on the part of the Government and the State Secretary, who spoke earlier and the Minister, there was no reference to the genocide of the Greeks in Asia Minor, which Parliament today honors. Destroying and instead of using the term 'genocide', talking about Asia Minor disaster, we are not serving the national case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u19	Again, Mr. Harakopoulos makes mistakes. I would like the floor, Mr President, for a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u20	You can only say that and we'll close, please. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u21	For the record, then, I am not the Minister who removed the chapters you say from the book. The chapters of history are in the book.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u22	What is being taught, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u23	They're taught to children. He's not in the matter under examination at the end. There is, of course, the pedagogical preservative, which says that what is not being studied is not taught. That is, indeed, a reactive pedagogical concept that does not agree with us. All the rest I can return to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u24	We proceed with MP Kirkras of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Aivatidis. Mr. Aivatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with Law 2645/1998 and a unanimous decision of the Greek Parliament, 14 September each year was established as the National Remembrance of the Genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor by the Turkish state. For reasons of moral order, I mention that at the time the proposal for a law was introduced by three Members of the Minority of the then government majority, Ioannis Caps, Ioannis Diamandis and Ioannis Charalambous. At the beginning of the twentieth century the total population of the Greeks of Asia Minor amounted to three million four hundred thousand, or 25% of the total population of the inhabitants of Asia Minor, while the Ottoman Turks did not exceed 20%. The genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor, including the Pontou and East Thrace, as well as other Christian ethnic groups, by the New Turks and Kemalians was a premeditated criminal act aimed at forced isolation, displacement, violent alteration of the national identity, biological extinction and eradication of the Greeks from the homes. It evolved in two phases in the years 1913 and 1918, with generalized persecutions, massacres, extremities and the emergence of work battalions with extermination of death toward the interior of Asia Minor for the Greeks of the coast. The total number of victims seems to be more than a million. On May 15, 1919, according to the decree of Eleftherios Venizelos, Greece was invited by the Conference of Peace to take over Izmir. This departure was the beginning of the Asia Minor Campaign, which, on August 8, 1921, led to the crossing of the Saggar River and to a hundred kilometers from Ankara. And while for one year the Greek army remained in a position of active defense in the Saigari, the political instability and the national division, which emerged following the elections proclaimed by Eleftherios Venizelos in time of war, along with the refusal of the Great Forces to provide financial and diplomatic assistance to Dimitrios Gounari and Greece, as well as secret equipment agreements by Mustafa Kemal from the Bolsheviks of the new Soviet Union, as well as agreements with Kurdish separatists, brought the general Turkish attack on August 26, 1922. On September 9, 1922, the Turkish army and naughty people entered Izmir. The heroic Metropolitan Chrysostomos was murdered by the surviving Turkish mob. Izmir surrendered to the flames. The subsequent disaster is known, unsubstantiated. A million more than two hundred thousand Greeks managed to rescue and come to the mother Greece, and four hundred thousand of them fled to the then Soviet Union. The collapse of the Asia Minor front brought the military revolution with leaders Nikolaos Plastira and Styliano Gonata. The Athens Extraordinary Revolutionary Court condemned Dimitrios Gounaris, Peter Protopadaki, Nikolaos Stratos, Georgios Baltatzis, Nikolaos Theotokis and General General Georgios Hatzanestis. As proved and according to the historical decision number 1675/2010 by the Z'Prime Department of the Ice Arena, they were innocent and were exquisite victims. Basic evidence was the letter of Eleftherios Venizelos to Panaghi Tsaldaris in January 1929, confirming that the political leaders executed did not commit treason and had no delusion to provoke the Asia Minor Destruction. Perhaps Eleftherios Venizelos was remorseful of the election call on November 1, 1920. The denial of genocide is a criminal offence and a national minority. Golden Dawn condemns fraudulent, leftless parallelism of the then national refugee wave with current states of covert illegal immigration. Convicts policies of the false Greek-Turkish friendship, corrupted by reports on "costism", rejects the oblivion that alienates the national historical past and accounts for Asia Minor as a patronage Greek land with a history and culture of three thousand years. And Izmir for us the Greek nationalists of the Golden Dawn will forever be the Bride of the Greek Ionia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u26	Thank you. The speech is made by MP Heraklion of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, after more than seven decades of political - historical oblivion, 14 September was established as the National Memorial Day of the Genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor by the Turkish state, by a law adopted in 1998 unanimously by the Greek Parliament, on a proposal from the PASOK MPs. It was preceded by the adoption of a Presidential Decree with similar content in 1986 again at the initiative of the government at the time. Ninety-four years have passed since the Asia Minor Destruction, the biggest disaster our nation suffered in its history. The memory of the genocide of the Asia Minor Greeks, a crime that violates international humanitarian law and as such still affects all mankind, remains alive and teaches. This day cannot and must not be exhausted in the organization of events throughout Greece or abroad, nor should it be a memorial of hatred or saltism. It is a great opportunity to remember the disastrous effects of the division and the disastrous policy of the choices made by the anti-Venezel, mainly after the 1920 elections. It is a challenge for all of us to become aware of the geopolitical environment in which we live today and to draw up, beyond party controversy, a national strategy in depth, continuity, and efficiency, a national policy that prevents the moral racism of our history and enables us to deal with relations with European partners and with neighbouring peoples in a serious and responsible way, without fanatics and hysteres, respecting our history, but at the same time without arrogant and compression. The aim of today's memory events is not to evaporate passions, to lead to a permanent annual front with the neighboring people. However, the aim is not to cover the brutalities that oblivion allows for their repetition, to prevent violence from becoming a law of international order, which is now happening in neighbouring areas - I would say - regions. The aim is to study our history calmly and draw conclusions in such a way as to honor our national heritage and study the geopolitical data of politics with care and predictability. However, the main objective is to raise awareness of our youth and provide it with goals and visions, while sending a message of peaceful coexistence to the region, based on mutual respect and not on violence and fear. The diversion to intolerance and the exploitation of history by populist forces is a real and no negligible risk. In this, unfortunately, they do not fail many times to give great opportunities. This, however, cannot lead us to hand over our misery, the tragedy of the genocide of Asia Minor Hellenism. Memory has always remained and remains alive in Greek society, especially the descendants of refugees, the living witnesses of the tragedy. The refugee world of mainly Greece, as well as the dispersal with its organizations and associations, acted as the ark to save historical memory. This historical memory that has been kept alive is a vital need for every people who want to make their collective identity responsible. But it is also his moral obligation. This debt is now to be fulfilled by today's honour to Parliament, but also by our daily attitude and practice. Reminds me: 14 September, National Remembrance Day for the Greeks of Asia Minor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, the day of memory of the Asia Minor tragedy is an opportunity to draw a number of important conclusions, but also to draw the necessary lessons as a people, necessary in today's difficult times, valuable for the present and future, conclusions that are necessary for today and for the tragic situation that the working class experiences, the popular strata because of the capitalist system, as well as for the search for a way forward - if any - from the capitalist crisis for the benefit of the people. At the same time, we consider that this tragic historic period is a source of lessons and useful conclusions for the people's movement and struggle towards modern conditions. The fifty thousand dead, the seventy-five thousand injured, the approximately one and a half million refugees are the horrific account of the participation of the Greek bourgeoisie in the imperialist plans in the wider region, with the pretext of protecting the Greeks in Asia Minor. The wholehearted conclusion is unbelievable, no matter how everyone characterizes these facts, that it is a disaster of innocent, simple people who have paid for the designs of imperialist blood and the implementation of the Great Idea. And the causes of this drama should be sought on the one hand in the choice of the bourgeoisie to move on then Greece to the annexing of new territories with a view to widening the internal market, a choice that was integrated into the more comprehensive strategic planning of the victorious forces of World War I, in order to gain control of the oil fields in Mosul and control over the wider region. The Great Idea Strategy was bankrupt. On the other hand, the responsibilities of both the People's Party and the Liberal Party, namely both the royals and the anti-basics, which, with the Asia Minor tragedy, have plunged our people into blood and misery. The only party to oppose the unjust war, which warned the people and fought as much as it could to prevent this war, defying persecution, was the Communist Party of Greece. We recall that at that time the entire central committee of the Communist Party was imprisoned, imprisoned and several members of the party were exiled. This attitude is an honor for the Communist Party, which responds to the current interests of our people. At the same time, the JRC is the only party that stood honestly and consistently on the side of refugees, fighting racism and xenophobia, which were cultivated on many sides. Especially revealing today is the attitude of so-called 'patriots', of the nationalists of the time against the refugees, because chauvinism and the cultivation of hatred suits the bourgeois order and the Golden Dawn-type parties that are donating him. The teachings of the Asia Minor Disaster are undoubtedly timely for today. Through the events of the Asia Minor campaign and destruction, the modern reality of the imperialist order of things is also enlightened, shaping the preconditions for a general military ignition in our region, which is evident with imperialist intervention in Syria, but also in the wider region of the Middle East, in the South-East Mediterranean, in North Africa. This is a war, which concerns only the sharing of markets, the control of oil and gas deposits, the control of their transport networks, the control of the wider region as a whole, in the context of the most severe intra-imperial competition. The Greek people have no interest in this war. It is only the pluralism, which today speaks of converting Greece into an energy hub, while at that time it was talking about the Great Idea, that is, this pluralism, which is also responsible for the capitalist crisis. It is the order that wins both from the war but wins from the peace, while the working class and the poor people's strata suffer both in war and in peace for its own interests, which it calls 'the interests of the country'. That is why, in the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece, our people's struggle must be directed towards Greece's non-participation in the possible imperialist war, the release of Greece from NATO and the European Union, the removal of all foreign bases and, above all, Souda, the return of military departments in various countries. Because the war is nothing but the continuation of the same policy by political means, we clearly say that, if Greece were to be involved in an unjust imperialist war, the Greek people should not shed its blood for the interests of the bourgeoisie, not to trust the bourgeoisie and any government, but rather to fight for radical changes in Greece, because only these radical changes at the level of power, economy and society can save him from poverty, impoverishment and suffering of war. It is only in this way that there can be peace in the wider region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. Mr Spyridon Danellis has the floor from the River Heraklion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is being tested today in the world. Parliamentarianism has been devalued in the eyes of the citizens. The political parties and Parliament, as polls have consistently witnessed - and not just in our country - are on the last steps of acceptance. In recent years, the understanding has been increasingly established internationally, that the elected political leaders, who have democratic legitimacy, are not really in place, but some invisible and uncontrollable ex-institutional centres, indeed economic centres. Today it is necessary as ever that democratically legitimized leaders can regulate the uncontrolled globalised landscape. After all, globalisation is a process with its negative but also its positive effects, which, whether we like it or not, cannot go back. Adjust, then, by means of maximum international cooperation with the adoption of common rules. The control of tax havens, for example, is a field in which international cooperation could produce results. Our civilisation, democracy and not given is not a permanent requirement. It requires compositions, requires rules and respect for their compliance. Continuing strengthening of its quality characteristics, respect for the separation of powers, protection of independent authorities, balance between the principles of the rule of law and the conquests of democracy is essential. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not have any illusions. In our country, the crisis has helped ethnicly illegitimate, irrational, detracting from the right word. That is why convenient interpretations of oversimplification and conspiracy, assisted by what always characterized us, that is to say, the perception that since we were the vast people, everyone is being smuggled, they are diffuse. On the other hand, the history of a people is not unimportant. A people's history is characterized by both bright and dark moments and must remain alive in collective memory. Every day of historical memory, however, should be an opportunity, an opportunity to reflect on the course of national self-awareness, a process in other words, which enables us to prevent such painful situations in the present or future, similar to those we have experienced in the past. This, of course, requires that history be read without deforming lenses of feasibility, depending on the context. There is not a single nation, after all, who is not interested in the construction of convenient historical myths, myths, who either exaggerate the positive historical role of the same either magnify the negative role of his historic enemies or disappear from their own map non-attractive neighbors. Unfortunately, in this context, the modern Greek reality finds examples. The Asia Minor Destruction does not, however, belong to the circle of these historical novels. The destruction of Asia Minor Hellenism took place, with incalculable consequences for a million and a half refugees who fled hunted and impoverished in Greece, plus about half a million dead. Often enjoying historical acrobatics, we avoid talking about the real causes, but also about the consequences of magnificence in the Asia Minor campaign. The Greek aggression, the Greek microimperialism, based on anger, seized by logic, led to the name of patrioticism and the right of the tribe, to the complete destruction. Memory for it to be essential, seeks empathy. We choose to forget the role of national division, as well as the painful consequences of the trial of the six followed by them, such as, of course, we have always avoided mentioning the non-attractive atrocities and the sufferings of the Greek Army in the Turkish population, as well as the fact that the uprooting of more than half a million Muslims from Greece has been through the compulsory exchange of populations. We also forget the perception of the undeniably patriot Eleftherios Venizelos of Greek-Turkish relations and the way, after the disaster, of Ankara and Kemal. We forget all his foreign policy lessons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. So let us remember with emotion but with wisdom and courage, because the selective memory and the beauty of history make the new Oriokastra. The horrific stereotypes of Turkish seed and his pastry then appear today as the Islamic Syrian refugee and his child, supposedly microbes. You will allow me a personal report. My mother, born in Heraklion by Asia Minor parents, was the "prosecutor" - which was degrading - in elementary school. The grandmother who grew up with us was able to bring us, without intolerance, the conditions of their lives there before the disaster, the tragedy of the uprooting and the flawless survival of the adversary conditions after the new homeland. If in fact love for the country and interest in the well-being of our people is our motivation for today's memory, let us remember, as Shakespeare says, that "the past is the foreword of the future". That means that only through self-awareness can we design a better future for us and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. The speech is given by MP II Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr. George Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, only pain, sorrow, pain and unpleasant remembrances come to our minds when we bring memories of the Asia Minor Destruction. The term Asia Minor Devastation is further described in the last phase of the Asia Minor campaign, i.e. the end of the 1918-1922 Greek-Turkish War. It also includes the departure from Turkey of the Greek administration, which had settled on the western Asia Minor coast, in Smyrna, according to the Treaty of Serbs, as well as the almost naughty retreat of the Greek Army after the collapse of the front and the generalised expulsion of a large part of the Greek and Christian population from Asia Minor. The expulsion had begun much earlier with the 1914 Treaty, concluded by Eleftherios Venizelos, which was interrupted by the truce of the Treaty of Mudder. The main cause was political and national division. Just ninety-two years ago, there was the greatest destruction that Hellenism had ever known. Our Orthodox race lost it from centuries old Greek Jonaia, while thousands of Greeks lost their properties, their families and were violently rooted from their ancestral homes. The snatching and plundering of homes and property, agricultural and livestock disasters, the collapse of schools, temples and other wealthy foundations, the bankruptcy and destruction of craft and industrial enterprises, while culminating in all human dignity - martyristic tortures of captives, rape - and the moral suffering under the climate of terror and the threat of death, but also the endless marches of captives in the propertys, with an unknown number of people lost in them, the massacres, atrocities and even executions have not been fully investigated until now. Immediately after the end of World War I in 1918 work began at the Peace Conference in Paris between the victorious countries and Greece. After an English and French deal, the First Division of the Hellenic Army under the command of Colonel Zafiri was disembarked in Smyrna on May 2, 1919, in order to establish Greek administration and protect the Christian populations. After all, it has already been done since 1913, a process of clearing all the non-Muslim elements. In August 1920, the Treaty of Serbs, which became the final concession of all Thrace, almost until Constantinople, was signed, as well as the concession of the administration of the Izmir region for five years in Greece, but with the right to integrate it after a referendum. By August 10th, the annexation of East Thrace would follow, but also the officially annexation of the Aegean islands already owned by Greece by the Balkan Wars. Venizelos, with secret agreement with Italy, the Venizelos - Titanium Pact, also regulated the question of the integration of Northern Epirus into the Greek state and the fate of the Dodecanese, owned by the Italians. Critical turning for the evolution of the Asia Minor campaign was the 1920 elections. The result of the elections in conditions of national division and discontent of the Greek people for the prolonged stay of Greek troops in Asia Minor was decisive for the subsequent history of the Greek nation. Venizelos was defeated by Gounaris, who in his election commitments had included the immediate cessation of hostilities. Just a month ago philanthropic king Alexander died suddenly. In November 20, Constantine returned to the throne after a referendum. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Constantine was extremely disliked by allied forces, for the role he played in the First World War. England, France and Italy, had warned the new government about what a possible return of Constantine to his relations with them would mean. Kemal, a commander of the Turkish army, with secret agreement with the French has annulled the Serb Treaty, while the French have abandoned Kilicia, leaving plenty of war material in the hands of the Turks. On 5 April Italy evacuated the area of Ephesus, which the Greek Army occupied. The advancement of the Greek Army ended in the unfortunate battle on the Saigon River in August of '21. It followed a stagnation for a long time and in May of 1922 the Gounari government resigned at the expense of developments. Lt-Gen Papoulias also resigned. I now speed up my placement due to time. Since September 1921 the main volume of forces of the Greek Army had gathered in Afion Karahisar. It was one of the strategy mistakes that one should point out in his analysis of the Asia Minor Destruction. The senior officers believed that by controlling Afion Karahisar, they could block the supply of the Turkish army. I'm trying to speed it up, Mr. President. On the morning of August 13th of the same year, the Turkish army attacked the Greek forces in Afion Karahisar. The Turkish attack directed by Kemal himself was expected. Nevertheless, she surprised with her quality the leadership of the Greek Army, who waited to face naughty armies. The aid was unable to reach it, due to the insecurity and the disorganization that existed in the army. A major cause was the recruitment of farmers and civilian Christians, so a disorganization was created and the Greek Army could not be coordinated and the collapse of the front began with the tragic consequences. On the front page of the newspaper "French Vima" on September 2, 1922, reports of massacres on the Turkish side. Public opinion ignored the speed of the collapse of the Greek Army on the front. The news of the abandonment of the Greeks of Asia Minor in their fate and the atrocities that followed arrived like lightning in an ethos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u34	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u35	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'd like to speed up my position, make a report.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u36	I guess you were prepared for at least half an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u37	Let me tell you, Mr President, I was prepared not for half an hour, but because when we made the Memorial of the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism, our positions were lasting for a quarter, I had the impression that something similar was going to happen today. So now you see I'm constantly cutting off my position. In any case, I am going directly to the dialog, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u38	Not to be regarded as making an observation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u39	No, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u40	...but then you talked twenty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. I shall now end, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down, I will say that the Asia Minor Destruction is still in pain. It's a wound that's still open. Every year this year, the sad anniversary of the uprooting of the Hellenism of Ionia in an inhuman, violent and bloody way reopens the wound. What the hordes of Kemal have done, not only in the waterfront of Smyrna but wherever they found Greek, is difficult to describe in words even with images. The massacres that have taken place cannot fit into human mind. In conclusion, I am simply going to make a reference - we cannot do this, Mr President - to the sacrifice of the clergy. It is a prayer in the memory of the innocent clergy, where Clergy, the Church once again, was really on the side of the hunters. Clergy's bloodthirsty offer in this national disaster cannot be ignored. Too many were the priests who found a tragic end and witnessed the faith of the Holy One for Christ. Most have sinned with terrible torture. In addition to the Metropolitan Izmir Chrysostomos, three hundred and forty - two clergy were killed with him. For example, Jerome Father Gregory burned alive, Metropolitan Cydon himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u42	Let us not start with examples.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u43	And I'm closing. What the Turks did can be compared only with the Nazi atrocities that Hitler himself did to justify, he had reminded of what the Turks did in Armenians, Greeks, etc. The Greek Parliament has an obligation to remind every year of the events that led to the Asia Minor Disaster and to answer all the questions and flaws that still dominate them. To do this, there are the written testimony of people who were eyewitnesses in the massacre, not Greek but foreigners, who saw with their eyes what happened and write details of shocking and even names slaughtered. We, as Greeks, say: 'We do not forget'! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u44	Thank you. We shall proceed to the last speaker of the Athens Parliamentary Committee of the Union of Centres, Mr Marios Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, today's ceremony in the national Parliament is of a dual nature. We honor the World Day of Democracy and at the same time join our thoughts as a nation to honor yesterday's National Remembrance Day for the destruction of Asia Minor Hellenism. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that today we must not confront ourselves. But I cannot understand why it was decided not to honour yesterday's National Remembrance Day for the destruction of Asia Minor Hellenism, since we all know that the destruction of the Asia Minor is not due to natural phenomena or "cosms" and we all know that September 14 was not determined by accident. It is the clear day of the Izmir disaster, one of the last of the presence of Hellenism in Asia Minor. Even the word disaster is perhaps inappropriate to describe the facts at the time. As my colleagues have rightly said, Law 2465/1998 introduces 14 September as the Memorandum of National Day - and please note - the genocide of the Greeks in Asia Minor by the Turkish state. Hundreds of thousands of Greeks then felt in their body and in their soul what ripping means, what persecution means, even what extinction means. Really the definition of genocide. A member of Hellenism was amputated. A culture with Greek Orthodox traditions with a local presence of thousands of years has ceased to exist. Even in Greece, which welcomed those who survived the fury of the opposite, shock was huge. An exhausted and defeated country in the war with zero resources, had to in the lamentation and mourning, find courage, take care of all refugees, integrate them into social life, create infrastructure and new homelands, such as Nea Smyrna, in which I grew up, Kalamaria, Nea Philadelphia, Nea Munich and dozens of other cities throughout Greece. Because the danger and horror of extinction finally found all the Greeks in the region, in Asia Minor, in Pontto, but elsewhere. Millions of Greeks have heard descriptions from their parents and grandparents about the bad experiences of the time. I am one of them, and you will allow me a personal report, since both of my grandparents lived in Asia Minor, namely Imbros and Banking. Aron, indeed, my grandfather, Constantine Archontonis, was forced to leave Imbros, to change his surname to Georgiadis and, of course, to lose everything there. Accordingly, my other grandfather, Ioannis Mendesidis, left the Bank to find shelter in beautiful Kavala. As you can see, part of my DNA is tiny and the thrill of yesterday's memory for me is huge. Undoubtedly, the Asia Minor Devastation was one of the greatest in the history of Hellenism. I cannot understand, however, why some are trying to reduce the size of crime, even today when all the historical evidence is available. We must honor and mourn our dead, the witnesses of the nation and our faith. As a people, we must maintain our collective memory uncleaned and transfer it from generation to generation, as part of our DNA, no matter how many centuries pass. As no Greek is left unharmed in listening to the word Constantinople, so we will never forget the Asia Minor Destruction and who caused it. In other words, we will never forget that the genocide of the Greeks in Asia Minor took place organized by the Turkish state. Their memory is eternity, then. Ladies and gentlemen, today I am sorry to see on World Democracy Day the temple of democracy being empty. The Day of Democracy is an important opportunity for us Greeks, who, as a people from ancient times, have still felt the need, we have captured the idea, we have established, we have lived and we have defended democracy. Bright examples of which we feel proud are the democracy of Klisthenes and Pericles, unrelentingly spiritual and social achievements of Greek antiquity and incalculable value heritage in humanity. Today, after so many centuries, it seems to us and democracy is the same need for it, and we feel the same sacrifices we are prepared to suffer for its sake. Because democracy is not just a system of governance and exercise of power. It is a set of higher and universal values and ideals, based on justice, equality, respect for personality and life, and respect for the majority but also diversity. It is an ideal place where citizens have the right to choose, have the right with their will to act and follow rules, creating benefits for themselves and for the community as a whole. Those who claim that similar values exist in some other form of power or that democracy is not for all the peoples or that it must have variations on a case-by-case basis, even deliberately. This is the precious good that we must all preserve as the daughter of an eye. For our part, as a Centro Association, we support every initiative in Greece and abroad, which highlights the values and uniqueness of democracy and the importance of its birthplace. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, I would like to ask you a question, since we are talking about democracy. Is that the democracy you dream about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, there has been some mention, without a biasing climate, to us very clearly. We'd need thirty seconds to get in touch.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u47	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Mr Ministers, Mr President, the question is this. Here, in this Chamber, are we generally condemning the Asia Minor campaign or hurting the outcome, tactics and division that has occurred to this people? Let's not forget that these boys who fought in Asia Minor to liberate Greek territories wrote history, fighting ten years from the eve of '12, '13. In the sense, then, that was a bourgeois war, our grandparents should normally say we should stay down to Lamia, not move any further. Eventually, did Cordatus know anything more about the late historian? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to keep a minute's silence. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Their memory is eternity! Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the topical and urgent questions debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 16 September 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 1258/13-9-2016 a topical question by MP Chios of New Democracy Mr Panagiotis (Southern) Mitaraki to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the exacerbation of the immigration problem in Chios. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1252-12-9-2016 of the current question by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the "breathing action by Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace". 3. The question under number 1254/12-9-2016 by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the situation in the Athens Concert Hall. 4. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on the treatment of the problems of public hospitals due to deficiencies in modern medical equipment. 5. The question by No 1249/12-9-2016 by MP Achaias of the River Mr. Jason Fotidas to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the reintroduction of the single price of books. 6. Under No 1255/13-9-2016 a topical question by MEP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance concerning the fight against fuel smuggling. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question under number 1250/12-9-2016 by MP A'Thessaloniki of the Union of Kentrons Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the subscribing of the Technical Service of the Municipality of Arrianes of Rhodope Prefecture. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 1259/13-9-2016, a topical question by MP Serres of New Democracy Mrs Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Finance about inertia in dealing with 'grey leases' in private accommodation leases. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1264/13-9-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Food, concerning the recent devastating floods in the Peloponnese. 3. The question by No 1256/13-9-2016 of the Greek Parliamentary 2nd Athens, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on e-Government. 4. The question by No 1248/12-9-2016 of the Independent MEP, Mr. Efstathiou (Stathia) Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the costs of the "representatives of the institutions" in the public sector. 5. The question by No 1210/5-9-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Theoktou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on protection against the seizure of retroactively paid pensions. 6. The question raised by Mr Ilias Panayotarou on "Anthony Action by Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace" by No 1206/31-8-2016. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 1216/5-9-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on measures to absorb all children at the children's stations. 8. The 1208/2-9-2016 topical question by MP 2 Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks Mr. George Lazarides to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the mergers of Police Departments in Thessaloniki. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the freezing of bilateral relations with Iran. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the exclusion from the new programme for the mutual benefit of Municipalities and the unemployed from the entire regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First of all, I would like to read a letter from the Government Secretariat to the Greek Parliament, which reads as follows: ‘We hereby inform you that regarding the debate on topical and urgent questions on parliamentary scrutiny of Thursday 15 September 2016, it becomes impossible: (a) the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, for Question No 1241/8-9-2016, as he will be in a meeting with the representatives of the institutions. (b) the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Georgios Katrugalou for his question No 1242/8-9-2016, as he will be in a meeting with representatives of the Institutions.’ Other topical questions will be answered in good time, namely: The numbers 1239/8-9-2016, 1243/8-9-2016 and 1245/8-9-2016, by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr.Tryphona Alexiadis. The numbers 1240/8-9-2016 and 1211/5-9-2016 by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. The numbers 1246/12-9-2016 and 1190/29-8-2016 by the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis. The numbers 1247/12-9-2016 and 1202/30-8-2016 by the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Evangelos Apostolos. The numbers 1244/12-9-2016 and 1204/30-8-2016 by the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction Mr Nikolao Toska. The number 1194/29-8-2016 by the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr Athanasia Anagnastopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEVERIOS VENIZELOS", visitors from the Dromocaete Hospital hostel. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Dear friends, you are in the topical and urgent procedure. It is parliamentary control. The question is asked by the Member who submits the question, by the Minister, who is taking the floor second time and by the Minister being closed. The whole process of each timely question lasts about ten to twelve minutes. We move to the fifth, with number 1246/12-9-2016, a topical question from the F Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Food, on the unprecedented disasters in the Trikalon Prefecture due to intense rainfall. F Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Communist Party of Greece Mr George Lambroulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. The intense rainfalls that have hit the last few days, namely September 9 and 10, the Trikalon Prefecture caused huge and unprecedented disasters in many areas of the prefecture, in several villages of Kalambakas, in miserable areas of Trikalon Prefecture and in other villages of the prefecture. Houses, crops were destroyed, flocks destroyed together, and animals drowned, while large damage on the road was done, but also in infrastructure. Great disasters cannot be attributed to the unprecedented, indeed rainfall. The disasters were not inevitable and, of course, the lack of the necessary anti-military works, as were the lack of cleansing of the runs, the channels and the rivers, are the factors involved in the disaster. After all, this is not the first time that floods occur, especially in the delusional regions, since we had, in a timely question three months ago, shown that in the delicacy of the Trikala Prefecture in the Farcadon region, the fields had been flooded and the crops suffered enormous damage. So the questions to the relevant Ministry, Mr President, are to record all the damages and pay compensation to those affected for all their damages and provide immediate emergency aid for the current needs of all those affected. And, of course, measures such as the exemption from the payment of HPAI, but also their other current obligations to the State, possible loans to banks, contributions and others to freeze. Also, to carry out all the necessary task of restoring and maintaining all the infrastructures which have been destroyed in the region, but also to finance the necessary and necessary flooding and improvement projects from the state budget respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr Panagiotis Kourublis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a difficult, I would say, climate change, because we have climates that include the element of violence. In other words, rains, storms come violently, so that we have very important problems, particularly in infrastructure such as roads, the main roads. One of these phenomena happened in the Trikala region. Yesterday, Mr President, we had a meeting at the Ministry. I invited the actors in the region, Mayor Trikalon, Vice-President, Members of Parliament, and there was a very serious and substantial discussion. We have identified the problems that have arisen. The Ministry is determined to support the municipalities. We will respond to the call of the municipalities for financial support, to make direct contributions to the improvement of rural roads. The Ministry of Labour is ready to accept the proposals that will be made after registration if there are families who have suffered damage to meet their needs with a direct allowance. We are in agreement with and in cooperation with the region, so that we can help, in so far as the region needs to run out of its own capacity to clean up the ravines, because we often have these violent weather and climatic phenomena, but in many cases we do not have the necessary care to clean up both the ravines and the drainage networks of the municipalities, in order to make it easier to absorb water. There was a very good debate, Mr Colleague, yesterday with all the people in the region, in a mutual understanding, and I think that very soon, in the next few days, there will be concrete initiatives by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. And in the specific disasters in Trikalon Prefecture, Mr President, Minister, as in the rest of Greece, in recent years, you have been very well aware of this, and I think you are also aware of this - the tragic deficiencies in flood protection infrastructures, but also the lack of maintenance, as I have said, of the runs, the canals and the rivers, which are always factors contributing to the disasters. This was the case in the Trikala Prefecture. See this: Local administration (a) and (b) when did he get funds for these things? It should be noted that the funds are incomplete, cut off, but when they have taken funds, so that they can go ahead - let me say it - even to any cleaning, maintenance, etc. Infrastructural projects? After all, it is not the first time that floods have occurred, especially in the delicacy areas of Trikala Prefecture. I said in my prology what happened three months ago. And it's not just what happened three months ago, but last year, last year. For years the same story has been repeated in the same area. Huge and criminal, Mr President, are the responsibilities of all the governments and local authorities, who have always placed the vital anti-military works out of priorities, in the name of the extraordinary needs of budgetary adjustment, the possibilities - as they say - in society, but also in the light of the eligibility of projects. That's what's going on. Of course, the tragic consequences of the disasters come to be added to the pluralism policy of the people's strata, which are forced to pay and pay again to implement projects, but which have what criteria? In this context, I should like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work is a very important one. We consider it necessary, without any further delay, since we are at the beginning of the autumn, that the strengthening and maintenance of any flooding infrastructure should immediately proceed and that an integrated plan for the prevention of the population should be drawn up against severe weather conditions. And I say it on the occasion of the Trikalon Prefecture. Not only in Thessaly, but throughout the territory this should be the case. There must be a plan for the preventive protection of the population against severe weather phenomena, and above all for the construction of the necessary and necessary flooding and improvement works, as I have said. There are extreme weather phenomena. But we cannot throw it all into extreme weather, in weather, in bad fate and say. Do you or do you not agree that today are the modern potential of technology and science, so that these phenomena can be planned and treated accordingly? This may apply at least to the provision. At the same time, there are the possibilities offered by science, technology and skilled workers, which we also have in our country for the construction of the corresponding necessary projects. There are these possibilities. Pumps don't exist, you don't give funds. And, of course, the people are suffering and paying for the results of these policies. That is why we, as a Communist Party, call on the farmers in the region, the people's layers, to organise their struggle and to demand a immediate solution for measures and counter-military protection, especially in areas with identified problems, in addition to immediate relief measures. You said, for example, that an exceptional aid will be granted, namely EUR 600 for construction. That's the law. And as the emergency aid is given, the next two months, three months, what's going to happen? Goddamn it, for example, to do what? Where would he put them? Which houses? In the damaged houses? The villages there were all devastated, especially the mountains in the region of Kalambaka. They're standing in the air. The walls are down. Houses fell. Where do they get in? So, you mustn't take care of the state for their shelter, first? Shouldn't it take steps? We have also proposed measures to the question - not to repeat them - on matters relating to the 'fresh' of their loans, their contributions, all these tax measures which, of course, are subject to these categories. At the same time, as far as the agricultural part is concerned, you will of course tell me that you are an unauthorised ministry, but there are also disasters in agricultural production, in livestock, etc., which must be compensated. Here too, there is an issue which we constantly raise and the farmers themselves claim that they should be compensated for the damages - because the compensation is for certain categories - the farmers from the ELGA. We say 100%. While farmers are being carved and paid to ELGA, they have no corresponding remuneration for the compensation of their production when they are affected. In this direction we also call on the people of Trikala, the farmers, the workers, to demand measures necessary to meet their current needs. I am also making a relevant memorandum from the Federation of Agricultural Associations of Trikala Prefectures "The Spring". Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u56	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u57	Mr Colleague, the Communist Party is used to us to have a measure in its word without exaggeration. Today, I think you haven't kept it. And you came here a little bit without a good briefing. The Ministry also financed both the Region and the Municipality of Trikkaion and the Municipality of Pylis for preventive interventions. That's the first. Secondly, there was no view at yesterday's meeting that there were home disasters. Thirdly, the Ministry of Finance, Mr Alexiadis, has already carried out the necessary procedures and ministerial decisions in which, in each area declared in an emergency, the problems of those small and medium-sized enterprises which suffer damage will be facilitated. So I have to tell you - and we have to say very well - that it was found yesterday in the debate that there was coordination with the Ministry of Civil Protection, which I must tell you in due course, is being informed of the coming weather phenomena. So there has been coordination, and I can say that the region and the municipalities too, in order to limit the impact of these phenomena. Already the Ministry has sent a warning to all regions, to all municipalities, but also to the Improvement Directorate to make the necessary provisions so that all these water catchment networks have the necessary monitoring and care. So we have to be a little close to reality. I understand the anxiety. From there on, however, you must accept at least what is being done and recognize them. I think that in a spirit like this we are also moving in the Trikala region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Because at 12.00 a.m. Mr Apostolos has a very important appointment with a foreign agent, I would like to ask Mrs Christophilopoulos to develop her current question as briefly and strictly as possible so that we do not postpone it. I would also ask Minister Kurubli to respond with a very long time economy so that the Minister can go on his date. I would ask you, without cutting your time - as long as you are entitled - to be brief. We move to the Seventh No. 1190/29-8-2016 topical question of the Attica Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the exclusion of thousands of children from the country's children's stations. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Panagiotis Kourublis. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are in mid-September, and the situation has not improved in day-to-day and child-care stations, in the Centres for the Creative Employment of Children and in the Centres for the Creative Employment of Children with Disabilities. This situation shows something I would say worrying, worrying for the state, for our society and above all for parents and children. One out of three children cannot find a position because applications have been rejected. So there's a large number, about thirty-six thousand children, who haven't approved their applications to have the famous voucher. But also from voucher's owners, Mr. Minister, which you, your government, have specifically established and implemented, of the eighty-four thousand voucher how much really used? How many, Minister, have they been able to find a response? How many parents have they been able to find a place for their children from the eighty-four thousand five hundred? There are many thousands of them, Mr President. It is more than ten thousand, as our information says and I ask the Minister to give the Greek Parliament the evidence that we have more than ten thousand voucher holders who cannot find a place, because there are areas of the country that have been given more voucher - to tell them coupons in the Greek language - for children and nursery stations than those which have public, municipal and private structures in this region. These people are entitled to it, but they cannot find a place, and there are others - and we have proposed solutions to the Democratic Partnership - whose applications have been rejected. And there are vacant posts at the moment in a number of municipalities, and even in municipalities in areas of labour, areas of medium-sized and lower income classes, which have a great need for these services, and they also need children and parents need them. Because you know very well, Minister, how important the issue of care and pre-school education is. So please give us the evidence. How's the situation right now? And as a coordinating ministry - so I graduated to you, you're the coordinating ministry - how are you gonna solve the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Christophilopoulou in particular for the question. It's a very interesting question I'd say. But I would ask her in her denture to tell me in 2014 how many thousands of children have entered the nurseries. Mrs Christophilopoulou, in fact ten thousand vouchers have not been covered because there are no structures. But the question should have put it to yourself. Why are there no structures? Is it the government's fault? You know, Mrs. Christophilopoulou, how many CFDs are there in the country? In the three hundred twenty-five municipalities there are only thirty or forty. Why aren't there in the other municipalities? Is that the government's fault? So it happened yesterday and they closed up? Do you know how many CIDs there are in the country? Do you have any information about how many municipalities do not have CIDs, Mrs Christophilopoulou? Did this government turn it off? Just the ten thousand vouchers who do not even find private stations in the region are the tragic image of the country. This is the tragic image of the country. I want to tell you and record this and keep it, that in the next year there will be no municipality without CIDUs and without CIDUs. Let us be clear and clear. Now, then, you told me about the thirty-six thousand, since, of course, I expect you to tell me how many children had entered in 2014 - not in 1914, last year '14, two years ago - to get to know exactly. In 2014, how much money was given? A total of 170 million had been allocated from the ESRB and 12 million from the Public Investment Programme, i.e. from national funds. What did you do as good alchemys then? You took the money forward of the entire six-year programme, thus in 2015 the government must, in order to meet these needs, allocate from the 12 million in 2014 to meet the needs of the Public Investment Programme, 54 million and 2016, this year 93 million from the Public Investment Programme. I say these to see how needs and options are being hierarchised. In 2000, therefore, the CFP specifications were made. I ask you: are you aware of the fact that there is a regulation in the CSR? It's been sixteen years since. The rest of it will be in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u63	Minister, you didn't answer. You are still oppositioning your right of opposition! You have not answered how to solve the problem and I would remind you that you are a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u64	I'll answer you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u65	I would also like to remind you that in 1999, in the PASOK government, the European Commission regulation was changed so that the country could be financed for the first time and for the first time children's and nurseries and CSRs and CSRs throughout the country were set up. Apart from that, however - and I will not go into, if you want, a trap to start calling here for who did the most - we go to today, since I tell you very quickly that in 2014 17% did not find a place and was rejected in 2013 in 16%. This year, 30%! In your health!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u66	Tell me how many thousands of kids entered the nurseries.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u67	Calm down and listen. Let's go further.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u68	Minister, at your place to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u69	So, please explain to me why you did not hear - not if you heard our proposals, because, as we have said, you are oppositioning to the opposition - the proposals of the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece - were unanimous, and all the fact that you were told that the previous strict molecule system, which focused on the placement of children in the existing structures, was a much better system and did not create the problems created by the voucher system, which your government brought and brought this salt. That's where you're going. Answer mothers at the moment, like the municipality of Acharnon, like the municipalities in all the provinces of Greece, where there is - Minister, I want you to listen to me - overcrowded structures. There are CSRs, there are disabled people and there are children's stations and they have vacant posts, Mr President. You drop the ball and you make new ones. Do it. We'll tell you what, 'cause we won't gloat or break. The work that we started, if you continue and bring more CIDs and more kindergartens, I myself, Minister, will come and tell you: 'Bravo, do it'. So do it, but answer me. Right now there are kids who are asking for a seat. There are empty seats. And that's not all. You leave them with this system north to the private. How does the government of the so - called Left leave them to private individuals? So I'll explain. With the previous system, the private child would not want it, with this system of strict moleculosis without voucher. Now what does the private person say, Mr. President? He suggests to the parent: "Do you want the school bus to take it?" "No, I don't need a school bus. I'll take it to my child." "Can you go to Theatrical Education?" It costs 80 euros.’ "No, I don't. I want this to be the case with the voucher. "We'll answer you. We do not know if we have positions." There are private parents working with the voucher system. You know that. You've done it - not to say you've done it - messed up at the Ministry of Labour. I'm addressing it to you. Your responsibilities may not be personal, but you need to see as a coordinating ministry, how you solve the problem! So leave the past and look at it today, because you're part of the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u71	You didn't answer me, Mrs. Christophilopoulou, how many children went in 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u72	I'm asking. You answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u73	You didn't answer me so we could figure out who's throwing the ball in the platform.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u74	You're the government. I'm asking as Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u75	You should ask me again in ten days to get the answer about how many kids will finally go to kindergartens. For the ten thousand uncovered voucher posts will be given to parents in areas where structures exist and can be settled. This is what is happening at the moment, in cooperation with the Central Association of Municipalities and Communities. You don't know that either. I'm going to tell you one more thing, since you don't answer me: This year they go four thousand more children than they did in 2014 and 2015, without denying and enjoying the situation by saying that we have met all the needs. The system we have implemented, Mrs Christophilopoulou, is fair because it does not favour those who have always been favoured but those who have real needs. This is the first time in the country to meet the needs of those under the poverty line. So it's fair and transparent. You also did not tell us, you who cry easily, how workers were paid and how they will be paid now every month.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u76	Are we crying? Mr. Spirtz is crying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u77	You didn't say anything yet: why didn't you house the CIDs in schools, Mrs. Christophilopoulou, where you were also a Minister of Education? We'll house the CPDs in school in the afternoon. So instead of schools in the afternoon doing what you and I know will house the Creative Employment Centres. What you didn't or didn't think to do, we'll do it now. As we will do in the new regulation, because these centres cannot function without regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u78	'I will', 'will', all of 'will'!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u79	Because they are centres that affect the nature of children at a sensitive age. So that is what we are doing and at some point you should answer to me how much CSR exists in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u80	You're answering. I'm asking. You're the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u81	Also, tell me how many CIDs are there to see the work you've done 15 years of being in ministries. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u82	You guys be good and answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Minister. We move to the fourth with No 1247/12-9-2016 topical question by MP Aetolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the exclusion from the associated aid, on the basis of the inappropriate limit of 120 kilograms of milk per animal, for thousands of farmers with domestic intensive grazing breeds. The question will be answered by the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, after almost forty days of adventure, this question comes to Parliament. Minister, we transfer the desperation and anguish of thousands of poor farmers, particularly farmers in mountains and disadvantaged areas who experience the consequences of the anti-agricultural policy of the European Union, which you too are politely implementing. On this barbaric policy experienced by farmers, the associated aid, which has been lost almost all of these farmers, who are in these areas and have local breeds, has been added. What happened? You have set a limit of six tons in mountainous areas and ten in plains, but at the same time you have also put a limit of one hundred and twenty kilograms per animal. From this measure the goats have been particularly affected, because they are milking - and you know that very well - not more than two to three months. So these pounds don't get caught. You have also taken no account of yourself, Minister, that in previous years the bluetongue has defined herds almost throughout the country, so that we also have a loss of animals, but much more of a loss of production for farmers. Besides, you also have a condition, quality characteristics, the microbial load of milk. We fully agree. This is also linked to the health of the people. But let us see whether these conditions exist in these mountain farmers, because this requires milking and requires electricity. Minister, you know very well that in these areas there are no networks for PPC, so that these farmers cannot install milking. And if they decide to do it on their own, we're talking about a cost which is unbearable. They cannot pay it, because we are talking about a sum of EUR 20,000 and EUR 30 000, depending on the distances.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u85	Complete the question, Mr Colleague, because the Minister is under pressure of time, as I said at the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u86	All right, Mr. President, but we're talking forty days. Minister, the institutions, of course, started for farmers. Yesterday there was an agreement between the government and the Quartet and we are talking about the tripling of insurance contributions to health between the others, the HNPHI to the mantle and all the others that affect poor medium-sized farms. We ask you this - of course, I will also speak about this in my dentistry - and you will answer, Mr Minister: you told the committee yesterday that an amendment will come next week to extend the permits for the statistic installations. We fully agree. But I will tell you that it is not just an extension. We are asking for free licensing and electricity. It is a serious matter not to extinguish these poor medium-sized farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u88	Dear colleague, the annual budget of the linked sheep and goatmeat aid in the mountainous regions in 2015 amounted to EUR 22 million, all of which were paid to beneficiary farmers. In other words, the farmers of the mountainous disadvantaged areas to which you refer have taken full advantage of the advantages of the linked aid, because they have all met the criteria and conditions laid down by the relevant Regulation and by the national framework. And these are the production of quality products and the preservation of productive animals. This year's over. What do we do next year? By making full use of the possibility of modifying the conditions for granting the associated aid to ovine and caprine animals of those mountainous less-favoured regions since 2017, we have sent substantiated proposals to the European Commission so that their implementation has been immediate since the new year. For example, we reduced the limit of one hundred and twenty pounds to a hundred pounds per animal. That was something that was causing us a problem. Of course, with our proposal, we are more rationalising the allocations, because we have as a target, in addition to serving the specific strategic options that we have specifically for livestock farming, to serve absorption. We're giving a special weight to livestock farming. We're strengthening the livestock. In ovine and caprine animals, from EUR 5 and EUR 7 today, we are bringing the amount up to EUR 11 per animal, that is to say, double the amount of aid. We raise the amount from EUR 22 million to EUR 51 million. In addition, we increase the amount available for protein crops, because you know that the great problem with livestock is feed and we raise the amount from EUR 7 million to EUR 33 million. That is, plants, native, refreshed, clover all forms part of this process, which means that the livestock is indirectly strengthened with much more money. Thus, while we had a total of around 62.63m euros in total, we are taking the related aid to animal production to 124m euros, overcoming the relationship of '67% animal production -33% plant production'. And because you referred to the plain rearing, we need them, dear colleague, and these rearings, but the sums we give are definitely less. Last year we gave EUR 2.2 million, and of course we will be repeating it again next year. However, I would like to make one thing clear to the farmers: to understand that they will benefit from these related aids, but this benefit will be linked to the improvement of the movement of products, which means that farmers will be paid the corresponding aid, since there are of course the corresponding documents, because at last we have to put some sort of order, let alone in an area that we particularly want to support and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u90	Minister, we don't think you know. You are consciously falsifying the truth. The sums may have been allocated, but they are left out - of course they are heard by farmers and can draw conclusions - the vast majority of farmers in mountainous and disadvantaged areas. That's the reality. Especially ovine and caprine animals stayed out. The farmers who are experiencing these consequences today and who are in extinction, despite what you say, are not only faced with the associated aid. Already at the moment they have not yet received any compensation outstanding since 2013, 2014 and 2015. They are also faced with other very serious issues linked to the statistic facilities. For example, those who have been in organic livestock for five years have been paid, Minister? Although they have spent several sums of their poor income to obtain certifications from private companies for organic livestock, they stay out. What for? Because there's a dissolution in all the country's vets and vets. And there's no extension. We have said that we are in agreement, and in addition we have asked for an extension on the landfill. If they don't serve the forest halls, and ten years of extensions to give, they're not going to get permission. I will give you a characteristic example: at the Amphilogy Forest in Atolocarnania there have been a thousand two-two applications for three years and they have not been able to give a single leave, because there is no staff, despite the valuable efforts of the workers in the forests. We call, in addition to the extension, for those who have submitted an integrated dossier for organic livestock to be paid immediately. Other impacts of small- and medium-sized farmers: you know, Minister, that a large proportion of cattle farmers, particularly those for meat production, were unable to get the connection, even though they went to the vet in good time and declared the births of the animals. Veterinarians were unable to give them before the end of the year. You must give them the opportunity to submit objections and all this has to be done from the outset. Minister, we are clearly aware that the sustainability of livestock farming is stumbling over the anti-agricultural policy of the European Union, the CFP, which really aims to unblock small and medium-sized farmers, to raise land and animal production in a few hands. Minister, these measures, which really break down stockfarming, are taken in a country with a negative agricultural balance, which spends huge sums of money touching almost 3 billion on the importation of livestock products. We believe that the poor, medium-sized farmers, together with the other workers, must make use of these opportunities, fight for another policy, for a policy that enables the modern food needs of our people to be met and for farmers and farmers to survive with dignity in their villages and fields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, it is easy to talk about poor agricultural policy and it may have had and had negative consequences for the rural area. After you talked about related aid, I told you that all the money was given, that will be paid almost twice the year. You know that these resources are through the common agricultural policy. We need to make that clear to each other. There have indeed been too many problems, especially for the payments of the rural environment. Since 2008, we have found loose ends. We have already paid too much and our commitment is clear: by 15 October, when payments are allowed, all outstanding over the past few years will have been closed. From there on, of course, there are other problems, such as the one you mentioned about the stack facilities. Yesterday, in the Committee on Production and Trade, which we had a debate on this, we said - and it is a matter of a day or two - that we will table an extension amendment by the end of 2018, but the question here is that we must definitely solve the problem permanently by proposing easier licensing procedures. For example, we should choose two - three types that fit both animal capital, especially the population, to see, of course, how this process will be made easier by involving local government, not so bureaucratic that it is today. Of course, there are also the problems arising from the operation of the Forest Office, mainly because of its lack of staff. These are issues that we need to see how we deal with them. In conclusion, I would like to say quite simply that for all of this, which concerns animal husbandry in particular, you know that we are giving particular weight, seeking to reverse the relationship between plant and animal production, with the aim of meeting our country's nutritional needs and, furthermore, making the products that can stand on the world market more competitive. That is our main objective.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u93	Thank you to the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Apostleu. We move to the fifth under the number 1202/30-8-2016 topical question of the second question of the MP Argolida of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Andrianos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the progress of the work of the Argolida irrigation network. Mr. Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to say first of all that it is good that you have come today to answer this extremely critical issue about Argolida, that is, the implementation of the works of Anavalos, which shows your interest in the project. Of course, the proof will be the specific answers you will give to the questions on the subject. This issue, as you know, is closely monitored and I ask for information at regular intervals within the framework of parliamentary control, including the obstacles that occasionally arise are many, complex and often require decisive action to resolve them. The topical question therefore concerns the implementation of the projects of Anavalos, namely, the projects for the transport and distribution of irrigation from the networks of Anavalos to Koutsopodi, Mycenas, Monastiraki, Fichtia, Honika, Airport, Greek and Mideas, a project which, as you mention in your reply to a relatively recent question, has not yet been included in the SAA 082/1, but is registered as an unregulated obligation of the Agricultural Development Programme of Greece 2007-2013 and as you say will shortly be included in that GAAP. Secondly, the irrigation and distribution of irrigation water from the Anavalos networks in Ermionida, which has become the final tradition of the study. The tender documents have been ready for over a year and a half. As you have answered, it has joined the CSCE 081/8, but has not been auctioned. It's a 47.350,000 euro project. Thirdly, the projects to extend the Vacuum to Epidaurus' irrigation network, the continuation of which has already been included in measure 4.3 of the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020 and in CSR 082/1, as a commitment to the budget of 32,557 000 euros. The tendering and promotion of the contractor, Mr. Minister, has taken place since the beginning of 2015. All the necessary procedures have been carried out and the contract has not yet been signed to proceed with the work envisaged in twenty-four months. I urge you, therefore, to inform the citizens of Argolida from the Step of the House of the specific timetable for the projects and, above all, their estimated date of delivery for the use of our producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Andriano. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank you for your good words. I believe that the answers I will give you will satisfy you, so that they complement the good words and thanks. My dear colleague, indeed the water shortage phenomena, particularly in the Peloponnese, are concerned with us. We have made a long-term planning - and I am thinking of the Ministry of Agriculture and the older governments - that is to say, the implementation of European works and the preparation of studies dealing with this major problem. The technical object of the projects mentioned above relates mainly to the construction of secondary works of production, so we call them - and pumping stations for the transport of water for irrigation in areas of the Argolian Field. At the supply point of these pipelines is the long-lasting central Canal of Anavalou, which carries water from the sources of the Kyveri settlement area. I now come to the projects you mentioned in our question. The first project, the transport and distribution of water from Anavalou networks to Koutsopodi, Mycenes, Monastery, Fichtia, Chonia, Airport, Greek and Midea has a budget of 8.8m euros. Of the total economic object up to now, 4,8m euros have been disbursed, of which 800,000 euros relate to advances in material. By decision of our Ministry, an extension of 10 months was approved to the total period of the construction contract, i.e. until 27 October 2016. There is a loose end to the expropriations of the project, and in particular the four pumping stations, where the relevant services have taken the necessary steps to the Office of Public Property Argolidas, as well as to the Regional Department of Public Property Peloponnese - Western Greece, in order to make a declaration of expropriation, in order to ensure a sufficient front of work from now on. The relevant public invitation was made to owners of immovable property for their direct acquisition to shorten the procedures. It is necessary, however, to assess the value of the property to be acquired by an independent accredited valuer. It will also be possible for this procedure as quickly as possible for the awarding of the tender which has not yet been scheduled because the continuation of the procedure was pending. The operation has already been approved and has already been included in the new 2014-2020 operational programme. We are now looking for the legal framework on which we will be able to implement this process as quickly as possible. It is now suspended from 18 April due to the non-payment of three accounts. We committed ourselves with a decision - and we tell you too - that within September these accounts will be paid. For the rest of the two projects, I'll speak in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Andrianos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I'm holding the Minister's commitment. Of course, I would like, in order to respond to my second language, to hear the commitment to both projects because they are related.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u99	It will be in the positive direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u100	I am therefore holding commitments, Mr Minister, because, as you and we are well aware, the problem of water shortages, the deterioration of the water supply horizon and the increase in production costs for our farmers is becoming more and more acute. Anavalos, with his completion, will be a real breath of life for both our primary production and our local economy as well as for the protection and preservation of the sustainability of the natural environment. In this context it would be useful, Minister, after the necessary projects are launched and implemented in accordance with your commitments, because primary water-free production cannot exist, that you examine, in cooperation with the relevant ministers, the use of Community funds of the EWRS, the new ESDP, for photovoltaic installations in the production of electricity for the Easter and the transport network pumps, because they are energy-intensive and would actually contribute to reducing the cost of transporting water, so in essence, the costs that each farmer pays. In view of the importance of the project for the local rural economy, as this year's anomaly has already caused serious damage to producers, the completion of the project becomes necessary not only for the further development of primary production but also for the survival of existing crops. This year, Minister, the problems faced by farmers because of annoyance are huge - you know them, I have pointed them out and asked you such questions - so that we have an impact on the fruits and therefore the damage to producers is huge. At a time when the economic crisis has touched everyone and affected them, not having an income is now very hard. I think that in this context you should see this whole strand of production costs. In conclusion, I should like to say this: it is clear that there will be an environmental charge on environmental grounds in the pumping of water for agricultural use. This will really be dissatisfied for farmers with the price of electricity, with the VAT they pay for electricity for rural use and with all the consequences that I have said. So I think that this costs will be dissatisfied and I think it would be a good thing for the ministry with the co-responsible ministries to look into it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Andriano. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u102	Referring to the second project, where the signature will soon be approved by the managing authority, it has been included in the new 2014-2020 programme with a budget of EUR 30.6 million and its construction time, as predicted, will be twenty-four months. The third project concerning the transport and distribution of water in Ermionida, Anavalos, has been received from the final study, which was part of the 2007-2013 programme. In order to build the project, a proposal must be submitted in the context of the calls for proposals for the measure: 'land improvements, land improvements', which I will shortly - and when I say soon, I mean beginning of the year, because we have already planned to publish other projects by the end of the year - there will be a notice. This proposal will be assessed on the basis of the criteria available to join the 2014-2020 Programme. I believe there will be no problem how much more so when there is a complementarity criterion, i.e. projects which are complementary to projects that were included in the previous programme, precede the evaluation in question. I think there will be no problem. In closing, however, this, my dear fellow Member, I believe that a project that for decades has been cancerous takes its way and will solve problems not only of avoiding desertification threatening these lands - you say about 60,000 acres - but, above all, it will be a point of reference to the country's plant production. I shall refer to two things that you have said. There is a directive for consultation of the European Union on the cost of irrigation of irrigation water. The invoicing issue is a political decision. There is no question of having, at least in the next period, a debate on the subject of the levying of the levy referred to in this directive. With regard to the others you have put in relation to energy, I would like to say that this regulation we have brought, which enables the use of photovoltaics in the rural space and their connection to the electricity distribution system, is a very important initiative. We have potential, including through the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, but at the same time, at the same time, in consultation with the relevant Ministry, to integrate it into ESDP projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I will make a statement to this House: The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food 'Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture and Improving the Arab Republic of Egypt for cooperation in the fisheries and aquaculture sector'. We move to the fourth with No 1240/8-9-2016 topical question of the First Circuit of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the reductions in supplementary pensions. The question by Mrs Christophilopoulos will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor to develop her question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. The pensioners, Mr. Minister, continue to see the show 'we do not cut pensions'. Only 10% of retired people have heard Mr. Tsipras say to the PPP that reductions will be made and the time when pensioners go to the ATMs to see and collect their pensions are before painful surprises. And it is not just - because the question concerns ancillary services - the subsidiary. Here you need to see that three hundred and eighty-five thousand pensioners will lose the CSCE, the three hundred thousand of them, Minister, by the end of 2016 with the beginning of 2017. You're sending them to the blocks, right here, right here. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] But it's not just them. There are also two hundred and sixty thousand supplementary pension beneficiaries who see their pensions cut, but how? How has it been implemented and applied in practice, Minister, your law, the Katorugalou law, the'small' of the insurance company, without making it sustainable? Another lie, Tsipra. You didn't make it sustainable, and you cut everything off. So how do you apply it? Answer us. How do you apply the famous cutter article? Over EUR 1300 the subsidiary shall be cut accordingly until this amount is reached. Because we currently have evidence that the law and the rate laid down by the law have not even been applied, but a higher rate, and that the funds have not issued normally justified, accreditation acts of supplementary pensions. I would like you to deny it, Minister, and to submit to the House evidence that this is not the case. But I want to tell you that I have at my disposal - and I am sure you have, and I want to hear what you are doing about it - information notes for pensioners who have lost up to 40% and in many cases, special cases, even 50% of their pension. What do you intend to do about it? Will you recalculate and how many people had more cuts? What are you going to do about retrospectives? Because there will be a case for the October pensioner to see "zero equals zero" and you know it and you run to put a wall. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, what are you going to do about the disability pensions? Because the pensions of the disabled are not excluded from this cut. And I would like you to respond very well if your Government were to treat the disabled and, of course, not the disability pensions more favourably as it should have been. I am clear about this. Minister, retired people demand answers, demand that the coefficients be made transparent, that pensions be cut and how and what the next ovens are to be made available. We do not want any more 'only us so much'. They want truths from the retireds wherever they come from!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u105	You're closing, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u107	The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is a clear commitment from our Government and this correction is already being made in practice, which brings back the income of those with a disability of 80% to the full amount that they received with the CSCE. This amount has already been paid to the beneficiaries' accounts on 8 September. Intensified payment of the prepaid card, covering 30% of those who had lost PSUR over EUR 117. Already all the members of the CSCE can get a certificate from their funds to have free health care, which we had cuts. The information process of the system is also on the way to avoid paying a health contribution for those who have had an absolute loss of CSR. These are the measures that we have committed ourselves to taking, and we have taken them because we have to take them for these categories of our fellow citizens, because we are a government that is interested in social protection. With regard to the cutter at EUR 3,300 you said, there may be a misunderstanding that is maintained as a misunderstanding. EUR 1,300 is a protection limit so that there is no reduction. It doesn't mean that anyone who gets more than 1,300 is cutting everything that's left over. I have said this repeatedly that all those receiving a pension and over EUR 1,300 - may also be EUR 2,000 - their pension, a ceiling that has been fixed, up to EUR 3,000 net, for more than one pension - does not mean that they will not receive a supplementary pension if their supplementary pension is the result of a 0,45% rate, which is the new rate for calculating the supplementary pension. Whatever comes from 0.45% will get it. We're not making a cut. Just, those who, after the calculation of 0.45%, lead to a sum of pensions, major and subsidiary, below EUR 1.300, will receive as a protection threshold the EUR 1.300. Our explanation is clear and many repeat the exact same scene. In the case of disabled persons, in no case shall disability benefits be taken into account for the purpose of determining this limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u109	For the disability pensions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u110	Please don't interrupt. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u111	All disability benefits do not take into account these limits, and in no case do we do more than was the case already in force since 1951 for the determination of disability pensions. With regard to the percentages of reductions in what has occurred, it is an issue that we need to see. The statistic gives you the ability to make magical results and numbers. That doesn't mean that it doesn't matter to us. Even when one has a pension reduction, it matters. However, this cut is what the law provides for, there is no other one, and we have created another basis for the development of social security, whose viability depends on economic development, of course, and depends on the demographic problem. We must take those appropriate measures that give an optimistic horizon for this system. We did not do horizontal cuts and you have to tell us what effect we would have if we maintained the zero deficit clause on supplementary pensions. Have you made bills and what would come of it? Because our image is dramatic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u112	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u113	Minister, if the zero deficit clause were to be applied, we would have 5% reductions in subsidiary charges. Today we reach 50%. I want to tell you that we have also made cuts - and not in surpluses - but it seems that your Government, which is negotiating so well, said 'it is not enough for those reductions that have been made by the previous speakers, we will do more'. I must also remind you that we have never given in to the institutions for the abolition of the CSCE. You sent it to the dogs. Today you are trying to implement relief measures. Please do quickly what you said you will do for the pensioners who have lost the NSA, to have zero participation in drugs. Because people go and - I have said this here from the Step of the House - they are told that they are not entitled to because the system does not support them. You told me indirectly. Tell us when the system will support them so that they can at least have this measure that you have implemented. Secondly, instead of the individual measures - to close with the ESS - could you negotiate, as we have at least proposed, a remodelling of a new low-pension pension that will not be a prepaid custodian card? Would you have the courage to negotiate it as a government? As far as subsidiary services are concerned, Minister, I am afraid you are wrong, not just whether the zero deficit clause was the one. And please don't tell me too much about the PSI, 'cause the government and you personally are going to make it up. Your government went and rightly supported it, because it saved the situation and the public debt this history and many benefits had the insurance funds after subsidies and your own governments. You continue to subsidise the funds, and we have been subsidising the funds with public money, and you know it very well. So answer me as far as subsidiary is concerned. Is it true that no accreditation acts have been issued and that we have funds cut off at a rate of 0,49 when the law you voted for says 0,45? Are there such cases, Minister? What are you going to do about these cases? Because this is injustice and misfortune. We didn't get what we cut, cut off much more. That is not enough, and now you are applying your law in a way that is higher than those which you have legislated. What are you going to do about it? Respond to those of the retired person who are still looking because their subsidiary has been cut longer than your own law anticipated. I think it's what you should do. If you cannot answer me today, I would be happy to resubmit the question. But I expect a first answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u114	The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u115	I am making it clear to all the beneficiaries of the CSCE - who have been surrounded by the CSCE - that with assurances that will be provided by their funds, they already have from 7 to 8 September, if I remember correctly, the right to receive their medicines free of charge. They have to get the certificate from their funds, because the computer system is not complete. Its completion is imminent and it does not need to be troubled in this way. They are, however, ready to take them to take free drugs. For the EBRD of the future, we have given the solution to the replacement of each insured person's pension in a way that relates to the national pension of EUR 384 for all and the proportional part of the contributions they have paid. It is not to the credit of the country to speak of pensions that increase by 120% for those who have an average income of EUR 500, but it is a reality. And where we are, we had to take steps to strengthen low incomes and strengthen them. The replacement rate for an average income of EUR 500 is 120%. This factor in high incomes is really declining. As far as supplementary pensions are concerned, 0.45% is the factor that increases subsidiary pensions. Those who were above - I explained it before - from 0.45% have the corresponding reduction. However, for those who paid more than 6% - because as a rule the rate of contribution for subsidiary is 3% for the employee and 3% for the employer - they will have an increase commensurate with the increased contribution that has always been paid out of 6%. This system is obviously not complete in all cases. That is why there are also delays in issuing the supplementary pensions. Those issued are clearly at a specified level that is not subject to another future reduction. There's no way like that. We are making a race and within the month of October we will have a detailed briefing of each insured person. We have no reason to hide a situation which is very difficult. We want our people to share in this effort. And it is the time of our collective account of the whole society in a way sincerely, but in a perspective that hopefully puts things forward for the future, since, of course, we all manage together to have the development that our country deserves and the prospect that our own provisions and policy put us for such a future, which will not be based on a miserable grief and perception, but on a common effort, though, with the truth. That is what has happened and I will in no way defend policies of all previous years, old and recent, which have led to the situation here. Of course, it will not be a success either for me or for our Government to follow the same lines, and that is why we have not done so, so we have made all this great change that we will develop and will be able to develop in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the eighth question under number 1211/5-9-2016 of the new Republic MP Karditsa Mr. Konstantinos Tsiras to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding increases in farmers' insurance contributions. Mr. Chiara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, based on Law4387/2016, the government's majority made some decisions. Inside this is the gradual increase in insurance contributions for farmers, which will reach 20% of their income by 2022. At the same time, there was a prediction that the contributions related to the disease, namely, the health coverage of farmers, would double over the next three years from 3.61% to 6.95% of farmers' incomes. In recent times there has been a multitude of publications which specifically state that the government, in order to close the part of the evaluation it is trying to get and get the EUR 2.8 billion substituting, intends from 1-1-2017 to a sharp increase in the health contributions for farmers to the maximum rate that it was intended to reach after three years, at 6.95%. I do not know - of course I am waiting for your answer - if we really understand what is going to happen from 1-1-2017, if that is the choice of the government and if it actually goes ahead with this arrangement in this short period of time before us. I will tell you attributes that one, I would say, of low income agricultural families, which, according to the law, would have paid a contribution of EUR 332, will come to pay every member of EUR 487, i.e. EUR 155 more. A four-member family is divided into an amount of EUR 620 more per year only for health contributions. I would therefore like you to tell me, Mr Minister, why you would expect at least a denial, if that were not in the government's thought, if it is indeed a final choice for the government, that health contributions will rise to 6.95% of the agricultural income from 1-1 to 17 and, of course, if that is the case, what other measures you have rejected, what other equivalents you have rejected, in order to lead you to such a choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u118	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. What is the result of the data that you have not taken into consideration and I will develop for you? The data you have not taken into account is that in 2018, for the income of 2017, i.e. the contribution is calculated on the farmers' net income. This gradual transition to the calculation of the income of farmers creates this paradoxical result of the farmer having a higher increase of 3.61%, which is currently for health, and of a reduction of 6.95%. The third insurance category is the majority of farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u120	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u121	The vast majority is in the third category. You know it, too, and you confirm it. With 3,61%, based on the insurance category that is applicable to the old law, which we maintain for 2017, because there was a claim that we would step up to this new system, it is EUR 38,47. With 3,61% in the third insurance category, the contribution for the EEAS is EUR 38,47. 2017 will be 10 euros lower. With 6.95% will be at 26 euros. Let me tell you that on the basis of the evidence that comes up...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u122	Minister, say it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u123	Do you want to hear it well, Mr. Papadopoulos? You probably want to hear it again, 'cause you already heard it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u124	Your people don't understand it either!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u125	You don't get it. All right, I'll say it again. With a contribution rate of 3.61% to the third insurance category, which, like Mr Tsiaras, admits, is the vast majority of farmers, they pay EUR 38.47.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u126	The month.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u127	Under our own law, with 6.95% calculated insurance contributions that are, in fact, going to be done - because there is one issue because we have excluded farmers from health, which is a sensitive area and needs to be supported - with an increased contribution, therefore, with 6.95%, they will pay less, i.e. EUR 28.51. In other words, they will pay 10 euros below, with an increased rate of contributions based on income.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u128	Aren't they on their income?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u129	The income, which we know is, because the state, the Ministry of Finance, the farmers' economics and we have said on several occasions, is such that it actually leads not to a vast majority, but to a small exception, with an increased income, which will pay. It is a very small exception to large incomes, huge in comparison to many farmers, who I do not think it is unfair to contribute and should also want to contribute to this effort, because that is rightly the case, according to our Constitution, for those who have the most opportunity to pay. We protect those who don't. That's the way things are in the humanitarian crisis we've been in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u130	Minister, complete your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u131	I explained what amount it is, but since 2017. Unfortunately, for 2017 in terms of income 2016 there will really be a small burden. We would like to have the new method of calculating contributions earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Chiara, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u133	Minister, I don't hide it from you that I had a question mark inside, that I would come here and disprove me, that you would say all that they saw the light of publicity is not true. I am really sorry - and I am glad that there are a number of colleagues from the government majority present in the Chamber - that in the end the government has proved to be either completely incapable of implementing a law, which it itself is voting for or because, on the other hand, it is trying to dilute, by means of mocking, that is, the Greek citizens, to adopt measures much earlier than the time it had provided for by legislation. Of course, all these accounting tricks, in order to find out if they are more or less the tax, were not mentioned when you were voting for the law. Here, therefore, it is confirmed that, by failing to implement either its own obligations or to satisfy prerequisites for prior time, the Government is obliged to make overtaxation, whether it concerns health contributions or, where appropriate, insurance contributions. Tell me, Minister, what truth can the government assure us after this that the actual insurance contributions, which will reach 20% of the agricultural income in 2022, will not reach this 20% sooner? Where is the credibility of the government, when voting for a law just four months earlier - on 8 May, if I remember correctly, we had voted for this law - and a few months later the government itself came to annul it? In fact - and, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to address you - it is a matter which must concern you all. We all have to worry about it. Any return to our home and local society should have the element of credibility, if we want to be serious, and all that you have actually said to a question earlier, in reply to my colleague's question, as a political system, we can put forward a step - step by step. Because if I add to you a whole lot of other things that have been done, namely, that if someone goes to take out the fictitious years in the OGA, there is no more 15% discount, but just a 2% discount, or that the owners of the tourist accommodation in very small villages under two thousand inhabitants go to OGA, you realize that a new reality is being created. And this reality, badly lies, cannot be supported today, as is the truth and this reality that the Greek citizens live. Furthermore, for me - and I say this without wanting to oppose you - there is a serious question of credibility. The Government adopts a law a few months earlier and dismisses it, at the expense of its own inability, either to implement measures or in any case to be consistent with commitments. This obviously, Minister, beyond all of us that can do parliamentary control and be toward you and obviously ask you about social groups of interest either in our local society or in general in our country, also concerns a serious issue of the credibility and consistency of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chiara. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u135	Obviously, Mr Chiara, this debate will take a long time. When the picture is completed and everyone will see the result, it will be that time, which coincides with the next election in 2019. Then everyone will see the positive result of this policy and welcome us. I told you a clue. I'll tell you some more and they'll be confirmed. 70% of the unskilled worker's wage, which is the rate equal to EUR 586, as determined in the law, leads to an amount of EUR 410 on which the escalation rate for farmers' contributions is calculated. Therefore, things are data. The numbers are known. Our General Secretariat for Revenue has notified them. In 2017, the insured will have a balance of EUR 27 a year for the first insurance category and upwards. In the third insurance category, it exceeds EUR 314 per year. With the new system, they will have a reduction in the amount of EUR 314, in relation to what was the case with the insurance charges we had. In the first category, it is what I said before and over EUR 27 this year. When farmers' net taxable income on the average is about 4,920 euros, you realize that it creates the basis to confirm the correctness of what I am saying to you. Therefore, you are a little patient. To correct provisions which we have just regulated and to see aspects of the legislative work for a second time is nothing in the history that is only now being done. If you see the parliamentary life a little bit - and you have a long term term - you will see that it has always been. So, where's the bad thing? The problem isn't there. Our problem is to achieve the positive steps we are pursuing. That is what we want everyone's contribution. That's what you're abstaining on. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u136	This will be judged by the Greek citizens, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We shall be adjourning the debate on the topical and urgent questions here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity: a discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis. We have to say to the House the following: Mr Panagiotis Kammenos sent a letter, which will be registered in the Minutes, requesting the transfer of the debate and decision on the case-file, which concerns him on Tuesday 20 September 2016, which is the next scheduled legislative work session. The letter is as follows: "Mr. President, I would like to ask the House to make the transfer of the debate and a ruling on the case-file that concerns me, according to the agenda of 9 September 2016 for Tuesday, 20 September 2016, because I and my Party Members are present at an official visit to the Thessaloniki International Exhibition."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u139	The House therefore asks whether it agrees to postpone the vote on the lifting of immunity by Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u140	So the House unanimously agreed. At the same time, following the decision we have just made, I propose that the matter concerning my colleague Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis be transferred to Tuesday, 20 September 2016, so that the vote will take place for both colleagues. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u141	So the House unanimously agreed. So we are continuing with parliamentary scrutiny and the debate on the topical and urgent questions. It is now time to discuss the first question under number 1239/8-9-2016 of the first cycle of the MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Finance, on the need to support the regions of Laconia and Messinia affected by the recent bad weather. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Mr Arachovite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Mr. Ministers. You all know that a few days ago he hit the Prefectures of both Laconia and Messinia and especially the early hours of Wednesday, September 7, 2016, where he brought great disasters...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Arachovite, I'm so sorry. I would ask the House very much, but also the ministerial headquarters of the ministers to be quiet. At least show proper respect to the honourable Member. Please. I'm sorry to interrupt, Mr. Arachovite. You have the floor. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u144	This bad weather brought great disasters both in infrastructure, i.e. on a rural and provincial network, as well as housing, shops and agricultural crops. In particular, in Molaus of the Municipality of Monemvasia and in Skala of the Municipality of Eurota there were crop damages, while the covetous waters of the river Eurota covered the entire bridge of Skala. This bridge is the only crossing from the central to the south and from the east to the west of Laconia, and for many hours the county has been cut to two. At the same time, great damage to crops and roads have been seen in areas of Parnonas, such as the villages of Geraki, Heads, Goritsa, etc. The Municipality of Sparta has been inflicting great damage on underground spaces and shops, on crops and on roads since the evening of the previous day. The dawn found the Laconia Prefecture hit once again by the extreme weather phenomena, with inhabitants being reasonably despaired by the disasters of both their property and the road networks of the county. We are constantly receiving information on damage, and even yesterday there was a meeting at the Ministry of Interior, which was invited by the mayors and the regions of Laconia and Messinia, where there was a debate on the recording of the damage. Now, after all the above, Mr Minister, what action does your Ministry intend to take to ensure, firstly, that the procedures for recording and estimating damages, relating to your Ministry, and secondly, that the affected - the two arms of the question - begin from the catastrophic storm of 7 September? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Arachovite. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u146	You are right to raise, Mr Papoutsis, the question of restoring the great disasters that have taken place in this region. What I want to say to you, is that I have not come here today to say what we intend to do, but to tell you what we have already done, because if the state mechanism, the state mechanism, responds with designs. I would like to say that in this period, despite the economic and other problems facing the country, the whole mechanism has moved at high speed. The rainfall took place on September 7th. On 8 September the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, which is responsible, declared the Municipality of Eurota of the Regional Unit of Laconia and the Municipal Unit of Molase of the Municipality of Monemvasia in an emergency and civil protection situation. Immediately after this declaration - because it is a necessary precondition - and following intervention by members of the region and regional and other actors, the process was initiated at the Ministry of Finance. Because they have to move to various ministries. As far as the Ministry of Finance was concerned, the procedure was initiated and the decision was already made yesterday. We have two ministerial decisions extending until 7 March from the date of the decision, the deadlines for payment of certified debts to natural and legal persons and entities having the principal residence or main establishment in those areas affected, and the payment of the certified and dues shall be suspended until 7-3-2017 until the date of issue of the present debt to the persons and entities concerned. It could be done faster than us, but it was delayed because the Ministry of Finance needed nine signatures to come out. It is not easy for us because of the internal procedure and bureaucracy to get faster. This is necessary because it brings major changes to the Ministry of Finance's computer systems in terms of debt collection. These decisions are not something that can be done directly in one day - yet it has also been done very quickly in the services of the Ministry of Finance - and the budget is also damaged, because we have budgeted other amounts and other amounts have to be allocated. I would also like to say to you that according to a document - I will give you a copy of all this, so that no time is lost - of the responsible address in relation to the taxation of immovable property, it is clear what is happening if there is a problem in the building, that is, what is happening with the HNVY in these buildings, according to a 2013 law and a 2014 circular, that is, exactly what is happening in cases where there has been damage to the buildings. So by closing, I'm going to tell you - and in second place I'm going to say the next - that we moved directly. We did everything we could to do at the Ministry of Finance and at secondary level I will tell you what is planned to be done by the other ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u147	Good, Minister. Mr Arachovitis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is true that everyone recognises - both the mayors and the people of the region - that the speed of the reaction of the state mechanism was immediate, as was the speed of declaring the area as a matter of urgency - what you said is essential - so that certain procedures can be carried out in a much shorter time than was the case in the past. It's a spectacular change. That's true. You started to refer to HISBIA. I would like you to specialize precisely in this point, because on the one hand we have the property which has actually been damaged, and on the other hand we have lost income to farmers, a cat is a rural area, and in shops too. That was, of course, less, but it is still a loss of revenue in the region. So the assured debts are clearly suspended, as you said, until 7 March. I would like to see by suspending the possibility of not paying HISPIA for a year, precisely because of the loss of income in the region. The second thing I would like to see is speeding up the process of offsetting debts with refunds from agricultural oil. The affected areas of Laconia and Messinia are mainly rural. You are aware of the problem with the return of excise duty on agricultural oil. I would therefore like to see if, because of the disasters, we could speed up the clearing procedures where there are debts or a return where there are no ones. These two points would give relief to the region, because, apart from damage recovery, people have to face the loss of production they will have in the next period. So he'll find himself without income for the next period. So given the debts, there will be a real lack of liquidity for this time for the world of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Arachovite. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u150	Mr Commissioner, as you know, yesterday a meeting was held at the Ministry of the Interior, where I was informed that it had dealt with these various issues and, more generally, with the coordination of public services. I wish we could do what we should do. We are doing what we can to do, in the light of the country's budgetary conditions and the possibilities we have, but we are already doing too much. I told you that, as far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, a prolongation and suspension of the payment of certified debts until March, i.e. for as long as the emergency situation lasts. As far as the problems of the region and the degree of destruction are concerned, I was previously shown by Mr Toskas, who also had the same picture from the region and there the disaster is really very great. What I would like to say is that we have had too many disasters this year, and the credit is for the services of the respective Ministry and Mr Toska that in real many cases they have intervened and helped these regions. Apart from the decisions we made yesterday and we are giving extensions to many areas, today or tomorrow, a new decision is coming up, which again gives the same extension for the disasters of Chios, Thermaikos Thessaloniki, Pyrgos, Gythios, East Mani, Etylus, Elias, Thassos, Uranoupolis, and other areas that were in trouble. So this goes on. We cannot afford all these regions to go to a tax relief programme that would meet the needs of the citizens. I wish we could do that, but as you can see, we do not have the financial capacity. However, I told you what was going to happen in tax matters. The General Secretariat of Economic Policy of the Ministry of Finance also informed me that according to the existing institutional framework, the compensation of undertakings with the grant of up to 30% of the damage to buildings, equipment and so on is also provided for. No time will be wasted on this. I put forward the relevant document in order to have a relevant picture. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiades, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the issue of HNPH is concerned, I would like to make it clear in general that based on Law 4223/2013 and Circular POL 1052/2014, there is a specific way in which there will be an indication of assets in the statement of property items, that a building in which there is a partial lack of housing or other material damage that makes it non-functional, characteristics that directly refer to an earthquake, fireplace or flooding, is recorded as incomplete and then the relevant discount. So on the subject of ENPIA there is this provision. We'll see if another intervention is needed. Finally, because time is running out, I would like to say that with the possibilities that we have at the Ministry of Finance, we have moved quickly, the respective decisions have been adopted and we will be on the side of these citizens both in this region and elsewhere in the country. Because the state really must at this difficult time show the person of solidarity that it must have with these citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the next topical question, I would like to inform you that the second question under number 1237/7-9-2016 of the first cycle of the MP in Athens, Mr. Gerasimios Giakoumatos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the HPHIA of voluntary organisations, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. Furthermore, they will not be discussed as a matter of urgency by the relevant ministers and will of course be redefined for discussion, the third with number 1241/8-9-2016 top-level question by Evia MEP - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Finance, on the "TRAINOSE scandal" against the incomplete price of EUR 45 million, and the second with number 1242/8-9-2016 on the second-round question of the President of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Aivatidis to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the "weakness of beneficiaries in the workplaces located in the area of Agios Ioannis Corfu". We enter the sixth under number 1243/9-9-2016 current question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the loss of revenues of 5 billion euro in 2014 from VAT. Here, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we have discussed this several times. According to the latest report published by the European Commission, the Greek State has a VAT loss for 2014 of EUR 4,926 billion, for 2013 of EUR 6,347 billion, for 2012 of EUR 6,068 billion, for 2011 of EUR 8,501 billion and for 2010 of EUR 6,412 billion. From 2010 to 2014, for all these tax years, the Greek State has lost total VAT revenues of EUR 32,2 billion. The amount is huge and outrageous. I will return to my dentistry, where I will have a little more time. How do you intend to put an end to the VAT collection in our country, which has led to a loss of revenue of 32 billion over the last five years? When will POS be connected to TAXIS and what will the procedure for tax reimbursement in the state when connecting all cash machines to the Ministry of Finance's control centres in real time, which will help correct and effective VAT collection? Finally, is there provision for cooperation with the European Union on a radical reform of the VAT system of the European Union in order to make it more effective and to combat fraud and loss of revenue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u153	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. You raise a huge issue with regard to what are the main features and the direction of fiscal policy, namely whether it makes sense to focus efforts on increasing tax rates and imposing new tax obligations or extending tax obligations, or whether we should go towards increasing the collection of the existing institutional framework. It is a great debate, indeed, that we need to do and see the results from both recent and previous regulations, because it makes no sense to constantly increase the tax rates, when there is a great opening in such a difficult period of tax collection, paid by the citizens and by some experts until they have been collected by the public, that is to say they have been stolen from the public. However, this is a great debate that needs to be held at some point, to see how we draw up our fiscal and economic policy and what we are doing. As far as the substance of your question is concerned, we are really making a great effort on tax evasion issues. I have submitted to the House a great deal of evidence. I've explained the government's planning. We are doing a very great deal of work, which seems to be seen and seen in the results we have been having all this time. Do not get carried away from what some media say in relation to the revenues of the Greek State. We have had the opportunity and have submitted many times the information showing what is happening with large cases of tax evasion and, in general, with increased collection and VAT, for example in the islands where there is misinformation, there is a destructiveness of falling revenue, and the evidence we have presented shows that they are increasing even by 50% in large tourist destinations. In general, we have spoken too much about tax evasion issues. In particular, on the subject of VAT, there is the operational plan of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, there is the operational plan of the Special Secretariat of the ILO where it is responsible for this matter, and there is also the cooperation of all government bodies on this matter. We haven't done what will make us happy and make us rest. In terms of tax evasion, smuggling and corruption, there will be too many years to be reassured and satisfied. We're going to fight all the time. However, there is, of course, a activation of services and coordination for greater efficiency in all these issues. Of course, there is also cooperation with the European Union on VAT matters and more generally on increased collection. On the subject of the interconnection of tax mechanisms with the General Secretariat of Information Systems or the Ministry of Finance in general, with tax services, unfortunately, there are delays there. While the institutional framework has been ready since 2010, there have been delays in the current period, which are closed with the bill on "plastic" money that will come to Parliament very soon. In this draft law, there is a provision that amends the existing institutional framework, now gives an answer to this issue and allows for direct interconnection, with which we will be able to make much better controls. This is because one auditor from his office will be able to call a business and say: "Sir, you have a hundred tables and I see that you've cut you off to twenty. Shall we come to check or will you comply?' Something which now costs us too much to audit staff, in time, in money and in a number of other procedures. This will be over. There will be more automatic procedures and we will be able to control them better. I'll file documents from four addresses. There is also a document from the Electronic Services Support Directorate, which clearly states that it is absolutely ready for the address to accept the volume of data on wholesale and retail transactions for all fiscal mechanisms throughout Greece. I say this because some who do not want to ‘ferment’ are trying to find an excuse that this information cannot be technically exploited. That is why I will also submit a document from the corresponding directorate, which shows that there is no excuse and that this application can work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. On the opportunity to say that the 5 billion that we have lost in the last year is almost, mutatis mutandis, the level of measures that this government had to take after the tough negotiation last year for the next three years. In other words, let us imagine how simple it is that I am saying, which is currently in Parliament, that if we had collected the 5 billion euro in 2014, we would have it in the fund. We should, of course, restructure, organize the state, make the services better, become more competitive. Nobody is talking about this, about the structural changes that need to be made. The fund, however, would have had five billion. So the new one, which you are bringing us right now and which will be controlled by this government - and with all due respect I say that we are here to control the government - is that, since there is currently the possibility of interconnecting cash machines electronically and which can raise the volume of data and transactions, which are millions of daily and in real time, at night or one day, there will be direct VAT returns or VAT precedents. Outside, you know, they do 50% daily and clean it up at the end of the year, to leave them a little cash in the cash register. They're forced to clean up the cash machine at the end of the month. We can find a lot of scripts, too. The main thing, the news coming out today, is that we're technically ready. I am very interested in the technique, because if there are five experts coming and making different suggestions to the Minister on technical issues which neither you nor I can know the scope and the technical detail and they fear us or say: 'You know, is it not right? Aren't we losing? Is something wrong?’ and we do not take the decision to collect from here and beyond for the next five years, we will lose not 32 billion, because with the growth that will come into the Greek economy, look out, the 32.2 billion that we lost from VAT five years now, from 2016 to 2021, will be over 40 billion. There will be growth in the economy, we will have more transactions, so GDP will increase, so we now predict that if we go with the same figures in the previous five years in the next five, we will lose, if we do not move today, over 40 billion. No government in the world and probably no Greek wants to impose a high tax. But it is being forced, because there is tax evasion, to impose a high tax rate, which we have had to place at the moment, which brings our country home into an uncompetitive position, both to natural and legal persons, how much more so the HPAI, for which we will listen on Sundays and to Mr Mitsotakis. Where will it get 30%, 800 million a year? How will it ease them? Here's the 800 million. Of the 5 billion, with the 800 million VAT, to'saving' directly the ENPIA, to be more fair, not to be there. To fall horizontally, to go to a lower scale all the world and the one who has many properties to pay, the one who has less to lighten. We have the ESS. We have "holes" which are not currently helping each family's income and available income, direct and indirect taxes, which we must alleviate. So we are committed as government and I hope in time - and here we are to check it out, Minister, together - to bring real-time connections, to start collection with POS, so that the Greek economy can be reduced and the time is reduced, when we draw up the 2018 budget, this time in 2017, we have already launched a pre-concession and that we can put the actual revenue into the VAT revenue, not 13 and 14 and 15 years a year, but put it in 20, 21 and 22. So the institutions and the Europeans and all of them with whom we are working and negotiating at this time will see that the government has permanently brought a solution to the tax evasion and tax evasion and has brought a permanent budgetary measure, which can and is justified in reducing the ranks, which need and problem, the competitiveness of the Greek economy, VAT and business, as well as debt. I close with it, that is, the 5 billion to imagine that it's 90% of interest a year to figure out how many minutes we're talking about. In 2014 5 billion VAT, 5.870 were the interest we paid. So we wouldn't need interest. What surplus are we talking about? We now have a surplus immediately. Please see and bring solutions to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u157	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u158	As far as what you said about the announcements made by the Chief of Staff Representation is concerned, we certainly all expect with interest to hear the proposal, where to find over 1 billion a year in order to carry out the announcements that have been made so far and the ones that will be made. I, for one year as Deputy Minister of Finance, have not heard a single proposal to increase public revenue from somewhere, nor a single proposal to limit expenditure from somewhere else. Because otherwise we can say nice words, abolish everything, make a lot of changes, but in economics we must do specific things. In the accounts, there's a balance, a charge, a credit, a balance. You can't say things that don't respond to the real facts. But we expect all of us to be wiser than this speech and where these revenues will be obtained. We hope that it will not be the continuation of the programme which had been launched, namely a reduction in public spending, from where it was needed, namely health, education or the redundancies which had begun and fortunately stopped. We hope it's not from there. If he's from there, it'll be easier to answer. As far as the substance of what you have said is concerned, I would like to stress - as the reply of the relevant agency says - that some seven hundred fiscal mechanisms have already been connected in Greece and a huge volume of documentary wholesale and retail transactions has been transmitted. We are already confident of this and I have submitted to you the relevant document of the Directorate-General for Public Revenue, which is the address of the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue, which confirms the technical capacity of this Secretariat-General for these things. Of course it will not be easy from the outset to interconnect all the mechanisms and there is no reason. This should be done by regions, by sectors, by object, so that we can deal with targeted tax evasion issues and see how all these issues will be dealt with. As far as VAT collection is concerned, I think we need to be consistent about the amounts we hear. We are certainly taking this study into account for the 5 billion. However, we need to see whether the 2014 figures, with a different turnover on the market, can draw us the same conclusions today, with a completely different turnover on the market and with a different possibility on the economic trade we have had and on the economic potential of the citizens. What I want to say in closing is that the Ministry of Finance has a specific design, based on Law4336, has specific timetables. Through the negotiation process with the institutions we are improving the institutional framework and implementing Law4336. What we can say is that we are doing what is humanly possible to have the greatest possible results.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the third with the number 1245/12-9-2016 topical question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Finance, on the possibility of joining and reintegrating in the regulation of the hundreds of doses for both public and insurance debts. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, let's actually land after the billions you've collected previously with Mr. Kammenos. We should, of course, look at what he has proposed, see if there is any improvement. Let's actually land what he says? There is now a failure to respond to both the insured and the taxpayers fulfilling their obligations, even from those who joined the system of a hundred instalments. It is indicative that of the thirty - five thousand who joined the IKA, there are about fifty - five thousand who comply with the arrangement. Of the hundred five thousand who joined the OAU, there are about fifty thousand who comply with the arrangement. Respectively, or if the numbers are different for those who joined for public debts, you can tell us how many they are. I believe that following the Prime Minister's announcements of a debt freeze for the OAU and for the EFF, questions arise as to how to implement them. So this is about the people who have so far respected the regulation that they could keep and they will not be able to do so next month? Is this about farmers too? Or why it is not for farmers - this has not been heard - which is the same category of insured persons who have joined the regulation or who have lost it. Or why isn't it also about public debts? There are therefore questions of this kind. I would, however, like to focus above all on the possibility of resuming the hundred-dose regulation for people who lost it for various reasons, regardless of the reason they lost it. This is partly the case for the insurance funds. It's not about public debt. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some time, Mr President. If you are going to be able to join a sustainable arrangement - which may not be the one of a hundred instalments, but someone else that you will think about, or who you will be suggesting - of the people who today have had dues, but had not been included in previous arrangements of any category. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u161	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, although I have listened carefully to you, I do not understand whether the question of reality was about the level of tax evasion or whether it is about the need to implement the Prime Minister's commitments. I do not understand whether you agree or do not agree with these commitments by the Prime Minister, i.e. whether it is right or not to freeze the arrangements. In any case, it is another Minister's responsibility to answer social security questions. Although you refer to your question, which is addressed to the Ministry of Finance, on matters relating to insurance funds, I will reply to you on the question of debts to the State. And I hope I don't see uploads and shows anymore Alexiadis says, but Katrugalos says. I, when I refer to a instalment arrangement, refer to a instalment arrangement for public debt, i.e. taxes and funds - I mean public funds - and when Mr Katrugalos talks about debts to insurance funds. Some cannot understand this difference and start saying things. It's okay. We understand the political reasons. As far as the subject you are asking is concerned, therefore, for the 100-dose adjustment to be reactivated, I have answered another time. Constantly bringing in hundreds of doses, there is no possibility. The country is in a specific political context, with a specific agreement. We can't keep bringing arrangements for 100 doses all the time. Thus, we would undermine the objectives we have set for collection and undermine the operation of the budget itself. There is no possibility. What we are looking at is how we will bring arrangements that will help businesses to remain in the regulation of 100 doses and how we will bring arrangements or activate existing arrangements so that companies that were at 100 doses have lost them for some reason and are reincorporated into 100 doses. We are, of course, trying to do that. At this point I would like to tell you that you are not fair to the criticism you are making. I see that you are in Parliament for too many hours and you are watching. And I think you will have heard another time that I have answered a question from the Treasury - not your question, to a question in the House - and I have said it in a speech because it is constantly being criticised by others. Since October 2015, the Ministry of Finance has issued the circular 1226, which has been posted to the ‘DENMARK’. On page 8, it reads: ‘Inadvertent non-payment of a dose percentage. In the interests of sound administration and the protection of the legitimate expectations of the administrator, a loss of regulation shall not occur where the taxpayer has not paid the late payment charge or, in general, the small amounts, which have remained unpaid by mistake. The Heads of Service shall request that their actions be taken in such a way that the incorrect amounts of unpaid payments cover the taxpayer and that the arrangements are not deemed to be lost.’ We, therefore, since October 2015 - and request that this circular 1226 be studied by those who have no picture - have brought the legislative framework precisely to deal with such arrangements. The Ministry of Labour and Social Security - and I will submit to the Minutes the relevant documents in order not to waste time to analyse them - has issued a circular on 26-2-2016, as the relevant directorate of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, which gives the opportunity to reincorporate when there are problems of losing a hundred instalments. So that's where this has been solved. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as these arrangements are concerned in general, I said that our effort is to maintain the hundreds of doses, to reinstate those who have lost it, when there is the possibility, if someone has left unpaid five months, it cannot be reintroduced, he has chosen that he does not want to be in the arrangement. I would like to remind you that there is the possibility, and now, of arrears, which cannot be paid, entered into the arrangements already in place and which are now as twenty-four monthly instalments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u164	The taxpayer and the insured person do not separate statements either from the Minister of Finance or from the Minister of Insurance when they reach the tax office or the fund. What they are anxiously asking is whether they can find satisfaction with the request, whether it is about reviving the arrangement for those who have lost it for even two months and want to pay even at a burden and cannot now, when it is public debt, while the insurance fund can. There's a huge differentiation, which you need to see. The CRL and, in general, the insurance fund system allows membership, even two or three months to be lost, since you can justify it in some way that is serious, not unjustified. Accordingly, there is no possibility to the Ministry of Finance only when it relates to the extra charge due to a change in interest rate or small amounts which have not been paid. If it is, as you said, two, three, four, five months won't accept it. And now I say: why not give the person who, for various reasons in the past four months, was impossible to pay because of financial difficulty or because of any other reason, not because of choice, had the money and did not pay, pay the five instalments they owed, put them a interest rate in your judgment and re-enter the arrangement? Why wouldn't that be? What's that? Loosing a Lord? Is the system going to blow? On the other hand, I think it is implementation - enlargement. I have here the circular you mentioned - in which you rightly said what you said in paragraph 8 - but it mentions small amounts and perhaps for once. That is why I am telling you that you can extend this and that will increase the revenues of the public and insurance funds. Of course, when one hears the Prime Minister speak of a debt freeze involving the OAU and the EBRD, he wonders why this is not the case for farmers. So not only do I say that it is very good to happen, but it must also apply to the other categories. It should also apply to farmers, why does the freezing of debts not apply to farmers if they pay the costs? And why should it not apply to public debts with the same logic? There should be a freeze of time, if they pay the current. I cannot understand why it will only be limited to what we said is very good. Of course, he has many dangers, but at this time I think it is easier for those who cannot. So the clarification which I would like to make, and the answer to questions, concerns the possibility of reviving the arrangements even if they are two, three, four instalments, but with the corresponding payment of the debts, I do not know at the expense and, of course, the re-energisation of this or any other arrangement beyond the one you mentioned, which is indeed there, 24 instalments, if there is any thought or no possibility of improving for due debts. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u165	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. I have answered your question with information and with reference to the circular in question. It is not true what you said is happening to one body and another. I want to make it clear. The Prime Minister made the announcement - read, please, precisely, I do not want to repeat or interpret the Prime Minister - and explain why this is happening. That is the responsibility of another minister. I can't answer matters relating to another ministry. As far as the Ministry of Finance is concerned, we cannot continue to have any new hundred-dollar arrangements. Those who have joined the hundred - dose adjustment should serve it. And if a new obligation cannot be paid, it must be regulated by the existing regulations, which reaches up to twenty-four instalments. That's the reality. And because often I hear "why don't you do that, why don't you do it, why don't you do the other?", it's not a matter of poor psychocomposition or political choice. Let me make this clear. Here we need to implement a law passed by this House with two hundred and twenty-one MPs, Mr.4336/2015, which on page 1017 reads: "The authorities undertake to take immediate enforcement measures, as regards debtors who do not pay their instalments in time or their current obligations..." What we have done, the legislation we have brought later. And despite the fact that this was voted by two hundred and twenty-one, the then application was voted on by fewer Members. But we leave that. And he writes below: ‘The authorities will not introduce new dose settings or other amnesty arrangements or by regulation, nor will they modify existing arrangements, for example, by extending deadlines’. So the framework is specific. Nevertheless, you know that the negotiations that have taken place and the negotiations that continue to take place by both Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Juliarakis and Mr Stathakis on the matter of mediation on debt issues etc. are in the direction of how we will deal with the problem of citizens who cannot pay their payments. We're talking about this. But it is not a political choice for the government, it is a political necessity that we have. There may be a political difference in this, but let us sometimes hear a proposal on what we have to do about this and not just the political disagreement. What I want to point out is that a hundred doses we can't keep going. Try to protect those who are at 100 doses or reintroduce those who have come out, it is done. There is the institutional framework and I hope that in the negotiations there will also be a new institutional framework, which will be announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move on to the next timely question, let me make a statement to this House, which refers to three Members for a leave abroad. In particular, the President of the Association of Centres, Mr Vassilis Leventis, Mr Marios Georgiadis, and Mr. Larisis, Mr. George Katsantonis, all three for the same period, that is, from 17 to 23 September, licenses for absence, in order to participate in the CONCORDIA 2016 Summit, which will take place in New York, USA. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u168	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. We continue with the sixth question under number 1194/29-8-2016 of the new Republic MP Kilkis, George Georgios Georgiodas, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the subsecution of TEI Kilkis. The question by Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Athanasias Anagnostopoulou. Mr Georgios Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are well aware of the fact that you have dealt with the issue a while ago, for the Investment Planning and Technology Department in Kilkis as an annex to the Central Macedonia TEI. It is a multipathic section, as there were and are still in progress and pending, two major issues. One is his shelter, for which, while a state-of-the-art building has been built with European funds, on various technical issues that were in existence and other legal obstacles delayed the relocation from where the department is today and operates. Fortunately, a solution is beginning to be found in this matter and by your own intervention - I must acknowledge it - and with the amendment that I myself tabled and accepted by you a few months ago. So I hope that, with regard to the relocation issue, the matter will be resolved immediately, as what is pending is to find the amount needed for the relocation. On the question of teaching technical and laboratory staff, however, it is imperative - and regardless of its relocation - that the section be strengthened immediately, as I shall mention the simple thing: out of the ten organic IPA members present in the section, only the two have now been covered. You understand very well, and everyone understands that only with two organic positions of scientific staff cannot this section - for which, in my dentistry, I shall mention the very large amount of educational work, which produces the great success of their graduates in absorbing them from the productive units in the region - operates. So you understand very well that a section that has prospects is actually being discredited in practice and which every year shows that it is being continuously improved in relation to its interconnection with the production process. I'll wait for a first place for you and then I'll be placed, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u170	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u171	Colleague, the Ministry gave five hundred positions to the highest institutions after six years. He also gave TEIs and TEIs of Central Macedonia, in an effort to improve the ratio between teachers and teachers. Whether he gave the TEI to specific departments or not, that's not a matter of the Ministry. The internal breakdown is carried out by the institutions themselves. And you yourself who ask me this question and your resignation, if I said you should give two positions to this department, it would be a mess and you would say that we are authoritarian, Soviet, Stalinist power, etc. It is an internal democracy in the institutions to distribute the positions. We sometimes only call ourselves in cases where we have either society or for purely academic reasons that we want a place. The paradox has happened at the TEI of Central Macedonia, and while seven positions have been placed, and that part - and you rightly say it - has no members of the TEI, it is subordinated, and strangely, no positions have been taken in this section. While given to others who have seven or ten or even twenty members of the EPA, this section was not given. But this cannot be regulated by the Ministry of Education's political leadership. Here, too, we come to another crucial issue to which also the party tells you other things, while reality makes us more. Why in an institution does not the voice of the community hear about where the positions should be allocated? Is the institutional framework no longer democratic enough to hear further voices? Why didn't the student's voices heard for example? They need an OP member. Why didn't they hear? So there's another matter coming up here. And the last point, Mr Georgioda, is that I am still waiting today - and I hope in the previous day's debate on education there is from your party - to tell me what is going on with the Athena project, which dissolved the TEIs and we are trying to find a way out right now. You know very well that we passed a provision and rightly for the Central Macedonia TEI, Kilkis was right, making a building. He left from Thessaloniki, went to Central Macedonia, the building belongs to the TEI of Thessaloniki, which is an incredible mess. Here, if we do not want to make a opposition conflict just for the conflict, we have to put down things for what this 'ATHENA' project created, how irrational it was and what we can do now, because we are constantly seeing it in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u173	Minister, I did not start my prototype in any opposition mood, and I think you are unfair to my position and attitude to the whole issue. I have to say this. Outside the ICPs, which I understand and say in my question that it is the institution's responsibility to decide the distribution, which took place at the expense of the Kilkis's annex, you see there is the possibility to finally name. I cannot accept as a member of the Kilkis County, representing the inhabitants that out of ten ICP positions are covered only by the two. He can't keep working. But it is not just teaching staff positions. Applications have been made directly to you, by an act that I have had since May, following previous inhabitations, and for members of the Technical Staff, as well as of the Laboratory of Personnel. So this is not about the distribution made by the Central Macedonia Foundation as a whole. It has to do with your own initiative. In any case, I think it is understandable that the organic positions should be covered up to a certain percentage. I do not know if you can do this in a direction without being accused of a fascist attitude to dealing with issues or intervention in the self-employed. But I think that the direction of the ratio to empty organic positions as - I say - is to encourage the institutions to cover them could be made at an permissible limit by you or else to name the positions that are necessary. Outside the scientific staff, I immediately await your response to all the other educational or technical staff that is necessary for our laboratories and for the functioning of this section. And I hope that your continued support, which I agree with on the subject of building. The truth is that because the annex is far away - for all the annexes it is happening throughout Greece, they do not work within the area that the institution itself operates - they are always unfair, to say so. I think that within your role and, of course, within the limits allowed by the Constitution and the laws, you could help a section which, according to the numerical indicators, has the preference of students and the absorption of graduates. 60% of the graduates in this section find direct work. They've succeeded and made a great connection with the production agencies. Textile and clothing technology and design on all these issues are something that is constantly developing. The processing process is very important for the Greek economy and this sector covers 10% of the manufacturing process in Greece. I think that such a section should be supported. And you can be sure that the citizens of each society will pay to the one who has to deliver any help he has in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u174	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u175	Mr Georgioda, you know very well that we have also discussed with the SYRIZA MEP in my office and in my office, we know the importance of the department and that it is only this department and it is good to keep it. Of course, we have a problem here. Organic positions do not exist in universities and in TEI in the sense that we say in secondary education. You mean it probably takes so many places to get the department to adequacy. I'm telling you, there's nothing we can do at all. However, what we can do - and we will do - is because now the allocation is to take place, in addition to the additional five hundred posts that are now allocated and hopefully within the institution that there will be a wiser distribution and that there will not be any parts left without taking up positions - is the temporary staff we take, it is the laboratory staff. All this will come out in the next few days. In other words, we are not going to have the department to be subordinated. But you said something, Mr Georgioda, and you are right. I've made infinite calls to pre-arrangements and presidents that no department be left without a seat. And now that we are going to allocate the next five hundred positions - the ones that have already been credited - we are going to make the same call. There is always a limit to the intervention of the Ministry in the self-government of higher institutions. There it is a matter of their own to resolve this issue. I would like to say, however, once again that a serious debate needs to be held - and that is where we need consensus, regardless of the ideological basis we have for education, for various issues - what we are doing with this major problem that has been created - and some universities also have it - particularly TEIs and the Athena project. If we do not make this serious debate, we will be talking about it, finding solutions for one section and the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the first question under number 1244/12-9-2016 of the new Republic MP, Georgios Vagionas, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the deterioration of the Arnaia Police Department of Halkidiki Prefecture in a police station, according to a draft Presidential Decree. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Mr Vagionas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, Minister, I do not want you to call me a localist. I'm asking that the Arnaia Police Department stay as it stands for real reasons and other reasons. What are the essential reasons? Removing the police station, the entire area, the Arnaia area, will not feel safe, that is to say people will not feel safe, not to say unsafe at all, because the distance of the two police stations, with the abolition of the Arnaia Police Department, Ierissos and Polygyros, is about 85 km. It will not only be the former Municipality of Arnaia, the Kapodistrian, but it will also be the neighbouring municipalities, such as the Zervohoria, which is about 40 km away from Polygyros and is 12 km from the Arnaia. The Municipality of Great Panagia, again Kapodistrian, is about 40 km from Ierissos and thirteen km from Arnaia. So there are four capodist municipalities in northern Halkidiki: Zervohoria, Arnaia, Great Panagia, Stagiron Acanthos. Removal of the Arnaia Police Department and the entire area of the two municipalities at least that are adjacent to the Arnaia, the Great Panagia and the Zervohoria is the area. And it is not a small population in this region. Imagine, in order for the police car to take the route by chasing a villain from Polygirl to reach Great Panagia or Arnaia will do at least an hour, because the road is rough, it is mountainous and therefore there is a coma. The reasons that led me to the topical and urgent question are essential. In addition to this, we had an offer from the Ministry of Rural Development - Ministerial Decision - that the JRC building is given to your Ministry, to be used for the Arnaia Police Department. But out of this, and because I do not have time, for the secondary reasons, which have a life of about six years, they begin with the poor distribution of "KALIKRATI" in northern Halkidiki. I told you that the north of Halkidiki has four capodist municipalities. One of them was adapted, stuck in the Municipality of Polygyros (Central Halkidiki). The reasons for this are recorded in the House and in the Plenary and Committee of the Regions. In any case, then the Prime Minister was commanded to leave the capital of northern Halkidiki - one of the two capitals of Halkidiki was the province of Arnaia - and to go to Ierissos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Bagiona, you have your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u179	Okay, in my dentistry, I'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u180	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, Mr Vagionas, I understand your concern and love for the place - it is not bad - and how you want to maintain the NARPD, apparently expressing the views of some of your fellow citizens. But look, for a year now, a process of reorganising the Greek police has begun. You know that over the past few years police departments have been created in too many small places, which even were short distances away from one another. This is not how policing is served, we all understand it. Although we may have a very large number of policemen, despite the abolition from the previous governments - from your government - of six and a half thousand posts, we have a large number of police officers in relation to our population. There are the geographical peculiarities of our country and the other peculiarities that we have taken into account. For the first time a debate was held, which started with proposals from the bottom up and not by imposing from the Ministry down. In other words, the operational police officers of each place, the police department and the General Inspectorates have proposed how each area will be better policed and then a debate was held with the Secretary General of the Ministry and the MPs, trade unionists, mayors, local actors, a wide-ranging debate. The results of these discussions have been prepared by a competent police committee and this process is under way. In the region of Halkidiki, seven police units are created with the new proposal, a Security Police Department, a Truck Department, a Migration Management Department and eleven police stations. Therefore, as you can see, the main issue - and here, in general, we could agree - is that there should be better policing. For the Halkidiki region, on my own initiative, this summer during the Friday weekends, a helicopter of the Fire Department for the Aerospace and Police helicopters was first sent to the Halkidiki streets, where there is indeed traffic congestion on weekends and there are many accidents. There were around ten cases, which, if there were no such aerospace, would have been tragic consequences. I want to tell you that we are looking after your place, as we are looking out for every other place. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Now we're going to the article at the Arnaia Police Department, which isn't abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u182	Minister, you have exhausted the time of your prototype. I'm sorry to interrupt, but you have the time of your dentistry. You may respond more specifically to the honourable Member's question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u183	I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Bagiona, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u185	Minister, for the reorganisation of the police, you have done very well and made changes, modifications. In Halkidiki there were eighteen police stations, apart from the police stations. Doing the Armenian police station doesn't say anything at all. You know better than me that the number of people serving police stations is on average two people. We have about twenty-five police stations and even at Mount Athos in each monastery is a police station and you are doing very well. The Jerussus Police Department didn't dismantle it. I was a strong supporter. The last time I saw the Chief of Staff, Mr. Tsaknakis, your predecessor, I also wrote to my question, as I had not to say, that he said to me: 'Do you want me to send my children for slaughter?' I tell you that it cannot be an autonomous state, Ierissos within the state. This area has to be policed right. And it's good you do it and you create it. I also made a suggestion about how the Police Department works, with police officers not transferred from Arnaia. It will be slaughtered and you have political responsibility. There is something even more important. He knows all the Hellin' Penny what to say, Squirrels. There have been uncontrollable situations and endings. This proposal which I am saying in Parliament's Chamber does not do so, because it follows on from it. Soon we'll have court decisions on felony in the police circles that have been committed. I, too, despise because I want the peace of my country. I want peace, I don't want a fight. It's a civil war, but it's a bucket. Now we put oil on the fire if we take the policemen from that area. You may disagree and have a part of the law, that it should not be, but it is the law of the Greek state. That's him, and I'm not responsible for solving it. However, I do not want to get away from the essential point of view. The problem is very difficult. Consider that, after legal circles say they have committed felonies, the penalties will be heavy. I wish I could intervene, but I can't. Justice is impotent, she'll do her job. All I can express is a wish: to have a suspensive character, not to keep things going. Create the Jerussian Police Department, but do not dismantle or go to police at least from the Arnasian Police Department. That's why I'm seeking to stay with the Arnaia Police Department. He has precedents with the Squirrels, which he knows all about, because some parakeets got up and said the mines won't work. And this has extensions to the social fabric. People leave, who were in favor of the mines, and work in mines, to go to other, adjacent villages. It's not one, two families, but there's a lot of them. We must not continue the evil because here from one mistake of the 'CARRIATORY', we are going to the other. The second mistake, the 12 Court of Auditors decisions say that the mines are legal. You know that eight stations were installed in the area to control the external and internal environment. Nobody said a word. We must stop this evil in the area, in favour of the mines, against the mines. Terrible family ruptures are being created. Once the police station has been abolished and that of Ierissos - which has to function - it has to work with the police people involved in keeping order in the area. And tomorrow, if we have judicial decisions - which I do not want them to be convicted, I repeat - I want them to be suspensive. And if a court judge hears me, he has to understand that, or the place won't calm down. The eighteen police stations in Halkidiki actually become eleven. It's about restructuring the police.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Bagiona, let's be brief, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u187	If they get twelve, will the evil be so big? Thank you very much. I would like to say a great deal more, which needs to be taken into account by the Ministry of Public Affairs. Because I must confess that if police officers are affected, I will be with them - and I believe I am still a Member - and I will be with them, making monthly reports. I'm not saying this about intimidation. My soul hurts when I see brothers not talking. If you don't understand that, then what more can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Bagiona. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Bagiona, we obviously all want to see social peace and we all want to forget what tensions have been and what they have created. It is, however, a social requirement for everyone in this area to establish a police department in Ierissos. And you accepted that now. And when I say to everyone, I mean even those who opposed each other. After all, if there's a problem somewhere, that doesn't mean the police have to leave. As far as Armenia is concerned, it is not abrogated, it does not reduce policing. A police station will be maintained. There are police stations like the ones you said at the monasteries, which are very small staff, because they are managed only in the summer or for a certain period. In Arnaia, we are planning a police station that will be deployed continuously with about twelve people. So much now, it's just that the number of cops who came from Ierissos was filled up. So the policing is not reduced. This must be our pursuit, there must be continuous, lasting, real policing, not buildings and commanders. This is what we want: to have police throughout the entire region, to have enough police throughout Halkidiki, because all Halkidiki needs serious policing. And that applies to all of Greece. The situation that exists so far, where there are police stations, police stations without people, is unacceptable. It's time this got to get together. And we're trying to do that. From there on, you are always welcome to discuss details, since time is not enough in this space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move to the ninth under No 1204/30-8-2016 topical question of the second question of the Achaias MP, Potamiou, Jasona Fotilla, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the increase of infringibility with the victims. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Toskas. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, according to the statistics published by the Hellenic Police Headquarters on May 10, 2016, there is an increase in infractionality in low-risk actions, such as robberies in related, shops, mini-markets. At the same time, there is a reduction or a stagnation of infringability in high-risk objectives, such as robberies to banks, ELTAs, liquid-fuel stations and others. For example in 2015 and in relation to the robbery, the numbers are particularly noteworthy. We had an increase of 13.58% in the territory, 11.79% in Athens and 24.38% in Thessaloniki. Similar results also appear for attempted robbery. An increase will also be noted in thefts and burglaries, which, compared to 2014, increased by five thousand eighty-three in 2015, i.e. we had an increase of 7.4% throughout the country, 9% in Attica and 3.3% in Thessaloniki. It should be noted that thefts and burglaries in houses exceeded twenty-four thousand in ground level. But also in the parade, according to the police report, the results are remarkable, as thirteen thousand three hundred and eighty-three violations were recorded in 2015, that is, almost twice as high as 2014. Minister, unfortunately, daily life shows us that the above statistics will probably be worse for 2016. In the center of Athens, a special hooded action is being developed, which prevents the movement and security of residents and the people who work there, while many shopkeepers spend large sums of money on the safety of their businesses, often without result. You see, too, that daily in the area around the Polytechnic, there are episodes that forced not only the residents to be shut down in their homes, but also the OSCE, following the mandate of ELAS to change the bus and trolleyway routes that pass through the Polytechnic. Elsa asked not to pass the trolleys from the Polytechnic. Here is the question of the Exarchates, for which I really cannot understand your design. It is an area in the center of Athens that has turned into a battlefield between hoodmen and policemen, with enormous damage to the property of residents and the public - I wonder if there is anything left in this desert, the Police Department of Excavations - without incubations. What else is needed, in other words, to bring known - unknown persons to justice? Do we have to mourn victims? Since the Director of Train has escaped, will we give time again to his companions, Mr. Kritsis? Already the police associations are expressing serious concerns about the mild management of this side of insanity and making reference, Minister, to the associations of policemen and saying about ideological behaviour that prevent them from carrying out their duties, which is nothing but the protection of citizens. At this point I would like to point out that it is a fact that the Security Bodies and especially the Police have shown particular zeal in the question of civil protection, but they are of course missing basic equipment, and we have incidents, such as what happened in Haysta the other day, which was 15 years old, stabbed a police officer when he was asked to stop for inspection. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. Pedestrians are not safe either for class organs themselves. It is important to deal with reality. So I would like you to know how you intend to deal with the increase in low-risk infringement. What is the central design of infringibility? What will be your actions to protect citizens in their daily lives and what are the criteria that the government has carried out in the coexistence of police departments? Are they geographical? We don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u192	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, Mr Fotella, the meaning of your question, at least your written question, is that there has been an increase in the infrastability of low risk - so you write - infringements and therefore what is happening with this issue, if I am interpreting correctly. It is precisely the reorganization that is under way there that focuses on it. Why what happened and what happened so far? They were building and building previous government police departments everywhere to obviously satisfy Rusphetti and other pursuits, and police officers were being reduced. The high-risk points, banks, supermarkets, etc. were protected. - and our aim is to protect all the sites - and the ordinary citizen on the sidewalk was more exposed, and because of the more general crisis, low infractions have increased so many years. That's the reality. We seek to reduce the many police stations. In Patras from five there are two, as written, just to get more policemen out on the sidewalk. We are seeking to remove people from the protection of police officers and the withdrawal has already begun, in order to strengthen policing through immediate action, through the greater policing of the city centre and the policing of problem areas. That's the pursuit. Despite the fact that in recent years, as I have said before, organic positions have been abolished for three years, we have not been in the judiciary schools, where there is a problem, such as in the western Achaia, in your area, the security department. These are our pursuits. From that point on, you know what? Speaking a lot of words is the easiest thing. But for twenty-five years there had been no business, as you referred to the Exarches. We dared a police operation organised during which the heads of Albanian drugs mafia were arrested in the region. No one dared and no one had achieved that. Something else had happened, the entry of MATs with cameras pre-positioned to create impressions, which after two hours or the next day had no value at all. Such stunning operations are far from our perception. In our understanding they are businesses with realism, with pursuits, with proper organization, with proper planning, with right objectives and results have begun. But if you wait for miracles, I'm sorry, but it's not so easy, when so many years of problems have been bounced, the troubles have been pushing under the "shift" of Extremities the problems of the whole city, so that the previous governments can get over with the problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u194	Minister, you have already exhausted the time of your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u195	We are trying in this area and you see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, I would like to say that I do not know whether things are going better. However, at the moment when we are talking, ELAS asks that there should be no trolleybus routes from the Polytechnic. First of all, I would like to point out that ELAS for the first half of 2016 has not officially announced the data on infractionality, and that is something that has never been done before and gives rise to many questions. On the question of the reinforcement of patrols, Minister, have you realised under what conditions our police officers are working on the streets? According to statistics on the incidents we have presented earlier, I do not think there is even one colleague in this Chamber who believes that, because of the fact that a police officer is going to be seen, the act and any illegality will be prevented. Only recently relevant reports mention the need for equipment, such as bulletproofs that policemen have to have and which they do not have, and often buy alone. But I think that all the personal guards of Mr. Tsipras and I imagine Mr. Paulakis will soon have bulletproofs. Also, for the first time in history since the Century, and then Herod Attica is closed to get through. It's never happened before. Moreover, the tactical burglar warfare followed by illegal hoodier groups, as we see regularly in the "abbey" of Exarchates, but also in blind attacks, such as, for example, at political parties offices, in the Petraki Monastery, at the offices of Football League, actually raises serious objections to whether the measure to strengthen patrols in itself can help increase the sense of security. Of course, you realise that in dialogue with the collectives of the 'abbey', as you have said - I have it here, I can table it in the Minutes - in your interview, it leads nowhere. On the contrary, it contributes to their legitimacy to say that "I have called the collectives from Exarches to discuss". Some time ago, the day before yesterday, we saw some bad guys kicking out the drug dealers after the terriblely successful operation you referred to. Yesterday, we saw them get kicked out by the douchebags on their own. We saw that, too. Here, therefore, an integrated plan is needed to stop the repatriation, because the citizens are paying for it again. You recently announced the coexistence of police departments - to say a few words about Patras - from five to two police stations, when at least one additional police station is calling for them. Let me remind you that we are talking about the third largest city in all of Greece, about the city with the largest port, door to the West, in Western Greece, a town with a port, which in the past gathered the soul carabans for a way out to Europe, which has started to make their appearance. Minister, as long as the refugee is still not controlled, it makes me wonder if the future needs of the city have been taken into account in your planning. How can you decide to reduce police stations without any geographical limits for each and how will they police, for example, St Stephen’s prisons? Because that's where you're going with it. Do you have knowledge of distances? You are right to set up a security department in the region of Lower Achaia. It was a year's request. But do you expect the existing cops to do this? It takes at least forty places for a department. Where are you going to find them? Do you know that the cops are already under heavy pressure? So I ask you, and I close: what is your planning for the above issues, but, Minister, in particular? And give us a timeline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u199	I'm really surprised and I don't know if you're asking for any more policing or asking for a reduction in policing. Because when you say that the pedestrian patrols and patrols generally do no good, they don't benefit from policing, it seems that those who advised you looked rather at their own benefit, despite the benefit of the citizens and the police. Because pursuing the state mechanism is not how there will be more managers, leaders or more people in offices. The aim of the state mechanism, at least for the area in which I am headed, is to provide a better service to the community as a whole. You referred to the six and a half thousand organic positions that have been abolished by previous governments. But at the moment we are seeking to increase patrols, which you do not want, so that some of those who advised you do not get tired. We will seek more patrols, more policemen on the road, get more police officers out of the offices to serve the community as a whole. This may unravel some, but it serves the community as a whole, thanks to these policemen who want to serve the community as a whole and who are loyal to their oath and who are serious about their mission. I am sorry if some people are unsettling, but that is absolutely necessary. However, we are moving in this direction, in the best service of the society as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. The Minutes of Thursday 30 June 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u201	The minutes of the sitting on Thursday 30 June 2016 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept the point of resolving the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-15-S1-commons.u202	With the consent of this House at 13.55' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 16 September 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
