ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. I wish for a good year, good work for all of us and for our Parliament. We enter the discussion of QUESTIONS First I will discuss the third with number 332/4-1-2016 appropriate question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of State, on the apparent excess of the deadline for the completion of the Boards. Independent Authorities (N.4339/EKE 133A/29.10.2015 ‘Authorisation of DVT content providers...’). The timely question will be answered by the Minister of State, Mr. Pappas. Mr. Loverdo, you have two minutes for your first placement and three for the second place. The Minister has three minutes for each position. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u2	Madam President, I can return to you personally at every good time in 2016 for you as you wish. And to all colleagues, to the workers in this House, to health above all and to what everyone wants. Minister, many years. I had with you a fertile, I believe, confrontation at the time you brought the draft law on the broadcasting landscape to the House. We have closed those discussions with a controversy which has resulted in an improvement in your amendment on the term of office of members, the constitutionally anticipated independent authorities, namely the five. And because a great concern had arisen about the 'coup d'état' of their term of office, you said that in two months' time you would have settled the matter in relation to the government's initiatives on the composition of the PSE. The vote was taken on 24 October. The weather passed. We did not have any government initiative at the Conference of Presidents. So I had tabled a timely question before the festivities, which you dealt with with with with truly politely - I said it here in Parliament - because it is very good for a minister - I have always done so, Mr Pappa - when he cannot be in Parliament's control, in time for his office to be informed. And indeed, you had a very good reason, because you were with the Prime Minister in Brussels. I came here, therefore, to mention that you had handled Parliamentary Control in an impeccable way, but I made a reference to the fact that the time has passed, December is ending, the two-month period has passed and we had no proposals. There Mr Bordenos - repeating something Mr Voutsi said - spoke of a lack of agreement between the government and the New Democracy. And he said that if there is a refusal by the parties to apply the institutional guarantee provided by the Conference of Presidents and 4/5 to have the composition of the independent authorities which are constitutionally provided for, then there will be an initiative legislative initiative on the part of the Government in order to overcome the obstacles to the 4/5. Mr. Voutsis said so first, Mr. Bordenos repeated it from this seat. Madam President, I have wondered what procedures have been taken to express the refusal of the New Democracy. We were not informed either by the Conference of Presidents officially, nor by the President of the Party, nor by his parliamentary representative. Where was the occasion for the New Democracy to say 'no'? Are there any opaque conversations? We're talking about the licenses for television stations. We are talking about a very serious information and policy tool. Where are you and New Democracy then, Minister, and does the New Democracy not agree? In the institutions, however, this cannot be done. In the public life briefing of the parties' contacts, it is not possible. How do you talk? In any case, it seems that in the festivities of this kind the discussions end up and in the past days we have an update by the President of Parliament on nine names that will be the government proposals. In these nine names it seems that a'marriage' can easily be concluded - I will say it better with the terms of the time - about 'a political coexistence pact' I would not say SYRIZA - New Democracy, I would say Tsipras and now Karamanlis or Pavlopoulou. And if it's Karamanlis, it's a matter of the New Democracy. But if it is Pavlopoulou, it is a matter of Prime Minister and President of the Republic. In any case, when we look at the proposals, Mr Minister, is it possible for the President of the Republic to have his or her own influence on the Television Council? If it is'marriage' or 'policy coexistence pact', it is institutionally unacceptable. But let's go down, and I'll close. There is a need to make use of the institutional guarantee of 4/5. We are not going to mess up or act like we are using our own representatives at the conference. We shall be creative, provided we have a creative proposal, on the other hand, which will be a co-existence and not the one expressed and with the proposal for the election of the President of the Republic and, ever since then, a non-institutional political symbol of the regulator of the country and of the government. The next few days will show what will happen, Minister, but from your answer we will get a first taste of how you think. There should be the best possible procedures, as I say in my question, so that the process of ERR members can be a process that is a product of transparent, honest and effective political processes and not a product of extortion. ........................................ The process has to be over and you won't blackmail us with the need for a treadhole not to obstruct things, but to lead them to an outlet. Minister, I really expect your answer very interestingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Loverdo, I hope the second time you will be consistent with time. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u4	May I also wish everyone a good year, good health and good and effective work within human hours and years with the contribution of all sides. Mr. Loverde, the issue of the composition of the National Broadcasting Council had dealt with the Conference of Presidents in the previous House. Disputes and different approaches were developed over whether to replace, to complete only the vacant posts or to rebuild them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u5	Before the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u6	Before the law. It was our provision, because it was the law that came, that we should arm this process in the institutional sense and, above all, in the licensing process. Why? Because one could easily insult the licensing process, since there were grey areas, in relation to the legal form of the National Broadcasting Council. At those meetings, it was decided to consult the Scientific Office of the Parliament and the Government to consult the Legal Board of the State. The Legal Council of the State replied - I will put forward a document on the Minutes after the end of my reply - that, after 16 October last year, there would be no legal composition of the PSE, so if we wanted to proceed with a process which is politically adequate and legally armored, we would have to re-establish the National Radiovision Council. I remember that night we had a very intense controversy. We have, however, come to an arrangement, which I think at least your concerns, but also Mr Venizelos, on a coup d'état are faded - I do not want to say on behalf of you that you have consented - if I take the view of how you were put down at night. Now in relation to 4/5: Mr. Loverde, the process of forming this majority, 4/5, when the House is an eight-party, is far more painful than it would be when PASOK and New Democracy were the sovereign parties in the Greek Parliament and could be between the agreement of the two just parties, through their representatives, the majority of them. The government and the spokesman will obviously not give an opinion on the composition, because they should not. That's Parliament's responsibility. And I think that in the course of developments, let us say, the impressions created during the debate on the bill that the government is going to gather superpowers or anything like that. The ERR is very close to its formation. I hope that this process will be completed quickly. The President of the Parliament, the Bureau of Parliament, gives constant battles. Now, for the 'policy marriages', I will return to my second placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the Crystal City School of Palais Penteli. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The procedure you are following today is Members' questions and Ministers' replies, which is why there are so few of them in the Chamber. It is a special sitting of the House. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u8	Madam President, I have taken a little more time in my prototype, but I hope you will judge that well. So I will now make it easier, speaking less, for it seems to me that the Minister's answer will be given to his second language. In his prototype, we had a simple reference to what happened. Minister, because this is a very critical issue, my experience tells me - listen to it and throw it - that anyone who wants to change this landscape - inside or out of the introductory part - is having a good time to set up the institutional framework - says what he has to say with interviews and so on. - but it will pass too bad when the application time comes and especially you who have kept for yourself real superpowers. We did, however, talk about this in the vote on the draft law last October. The opinion, however, and only the function of the PSE is critical and all the procedures that lead to a position being taken are very important and evaluated, because they will ultimately characterise you. If there is an institutional imbalance on this path, you will be charged and you should be anxious to credit impeccable procedures as a whole. It is institutionally right that Parliament and other governments should say, but the majority that support governments are politically united. I have made a special reference to you - not to repeat it and waste time - for procedures that have not gone well so far. What you have said about the Conference of Presidents, as you have said, concerns the period prior to the adoption of the law. Once the law was passed and the two-month deadline was set, we have a Broadcasting Council with one member. You have driven Mrs Alexiou away from other members of the Broadcasting Council in a phase that, although she had only four members, she was working and produced a project. Indeed, I do not know if you are aware of this - you have lowered them and wage-earning workers there and made special remarks to you by the Department of Scientific Studies in the House. However, we have said that in the course of the legislative work. So you left the Council with one member late and learnt, firstly, out of procedure, that the New Democracy refuses. Everyone else has no idea. We haven't been informed. That's uncomfortable and you're charging it. Secondly, we learn that the New Democracy is in agreement and that is why I spoke about a 'political coexistence pact' Tsipras with Karamanlis or Pavlopoulou. But now that we are at the end of the day, the parliamentary procedures at the Conference should be genuinely creative, that all the forces of the House should express themselves in order to have the 4/5 and not all the opinion and not the feeling or the opposite, that the procedures for the new composition of the Broadcasting Council will be pluralist, that they respect the need for the institution to be effective, in order to make the crucial decisions, in relation to its opinion, which you will then handle. If this is not the case, if there is a unilateral political expression on the proposals for the composition of the Broadcasting Council, we will not agree, we will conflict - and this conflict will be on your CV - in view of the final one by you - and only by you - the granting of television licences. Therefore, my timely question - and I close - has the character of not making suggestions or advising - does not claim this role - but of restoring concerns, parliamentary and political content, and suggesting better methods in our work in Parliament, but then in the relationship between the Government - Parliament on this very crucial issue. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u10	Mr Loverde, I am very sorry that you are coming back to a criticism of superpowers and you are unsatisfactoryly expressing the opinion that the Minister will deliver and grant permission. The licences will be issued by the National Broadcasting Council, where we all wish to finish next week. As far as I know, you had your representative there. And I am sure that your opinion will also be heard and taken into account. I would like to remind you that in the process of voting the bill, there have been articles which you have voted in favour of. Isn't that right? In other words, you voted in favour of the competitive process, you voted in favour of the setting-up of the ERT digital network, and at the end - I will also present this in the Minutes - and you and Mr Venizelos consented to the final version of the regulation of the legislative improvement that we brought to the National Broadcasting Council. You, in fact, closed the debate that night. You.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u11	We have accepted that the new wording is better. We didn't vote for her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u12	All right, all right, all right. In any case, the war climate seems to have been sidelined from both sides. Now, however, to come here and talk about "political marriages" and "political coexistence," I think it's a little extreme. You have tried "political marriage" with the New Democracy, and I would say to you - with a New Democracy with extreme political expressions and an economic agenda. You tried it, and it failed. To politicize a little, because I think that the questions raised by the question were exhausted, since there was neither a two-month formal deadline nor anything, I would suggest that you follow...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u13	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Don't hear)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u14	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u15	You didn't say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u16	That's another thing we said. Mr. Loverde, excuse me. I would also like the day after the vote on this provision to have a legal formation of the PSE. For reasons of many, multiple, - the esoterics of the New Democracy, perhaps - this was not done immediately. But that's another conversation. So there is absolutely no irregularity, as is unsatisfactoryly expressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u17	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Don't hear)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Loverde, there's no dialogue here. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u19	Allow me, Mr. Loverde. And you misused time, and you're interrupting me now. I say, therefore, that there is absolutely no irregularity. What exists is constant concern on the part of the government's majority, the majority of Parliament and the government, that the procedures should proceed quickly. For 'political marriages', I would tell you this and count it: Socialist parties in Europe are reviewing the prestige... Don't move your hand, Mr. Kegeroglu. You may not like it, but you will hear it. So they revise their up to now tactics to “marry ” with political marriage and religious dedication to neoliberalism with right parties. I would therefore like to wish you, as we have in Portugal and Spain, to follow them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u20	You're self-criticizing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u21	Now this is over, Mr. Kegeroglu. It's over! Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u22	The first 340/5-1-2016 question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Assembly of the Radical Left Coalition of Eleni Aylonitou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the inability to graduate students of the "Tae Kvo Do" specialization from the University of Thessaloniki and Athens, due to a lack of teachers of this specific speciality, will now be discussed. The timely question by my colleague will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Anagnostopoulou. Mrs. Alonitou, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to wish everyone, health, prosperity and peace, for my part. Madam Minister, it is well known to everyone that in recent years the recruitment of members of the IMPs to the Higher Education Institutions of the country has stopped. As the former university teachers retire at the same time, university schools conclude that they do not have sufficient teaching staff to meet the teaching needs of their students. The problem becomes very intense in the Departments of Science, Physical Education and Sport, at TEFA, where the lack of teachers reaches such a point that there really is no teacher to cover specialty courses, so that students cannot graduate, not only those who have chosen this specialty or have been taught in a previous semester, but also those who are forced by law to attend that speciality because as eligible athletes they are obliged to specialize in their sport. Minister, so far the problem has been dealt with by the associations by posting from the middle education of Physical Education Teachers with suitably qualified qualifications, where under the supervision of TEFA Members teach students. This year, however, in the current academic year, at the TEFA of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, it has not been possible to teach the Olympic sport of Tae Khoo Do, as the only teacher in the last twenty-four years - and by the way, doctoral owner - has not been able to get a secondment, but has gone to teach physics at the primary school of Rhodes. The problem, Mrs. Minister, has not only the TEFA of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, but also the corresponding TEFA department of the National Kapodistrian University of Athens where there the teaching course of Tae Kvo Do is taught by an unpaid postgraduate student and wondered about how much more. As a result, there is no graduation of students in this specific qualification. Also, it creates inability to work for graduates of TECHA in this sport because they have not learned the specific speciality, which creates a problem in the Olympic sport of Tae Khoo Do, as there is a shortage of experienced, trained and scientific coaching skills. Therefore, Minister, I ask you what you intend to do, so that as soon as possible, as soon as possible, tutors will be placed in the specialty of TEFA, so that students, who follow the specific specialty of Tae Khoe Do, can complete their studies without losing a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u24	Madam Minister, you can answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u25	Happy birthday from me and a good year to everyone and everyone. I will begin with the essential part of your question, namely, where it shows all the pathogens of the system for so many years. You said and write it in your question that for twenty-four years he taught a seconded man, who has a doctorate. A seconded person for twenty-four years is one thing which is not customary in any European country. He had a doctorate, he could have been in a position for twenty-four years. So we have a pathogen that seems now. Secondly, what the law has been saying since 1999 is that the secondments have been made by surplus personnel, after the needs of primary and secondary education have been met. This year, therefore, the priority was to meet the needs of primary and secondary schools. So the problem we have is a chronic problem, the results of which are now seen now that we do not have any recruitment or nothing in recent years. You know that the Department of Physical Education and Sports of the Aristotle University has forty-nine board members. This year, of the 20 posts requested by this section, the twelve were covered and we have three other secondment posts that will go. So normally this department for twenty - four years, since it had that possibility, could meet its needs. So here we have a major problem. But I will tell you that in this very short time we are, we have been able for the first time to finally open up the recruitment after five years in higher education. We have already taken the laboratory staff - a hundred and ninety-five positions - 50 LPIS members and now we will be launching five hundred LPI members. One last point I wanted to tell you, my dear fellow Member, is that those seconded by education - which is why I say to you that it is a chronic problem - are doing a helpful job. They don't really do the job. In other words, for the specialty, a person needs to be there, he needs to be a PLN member, or work under a PLN member, that is to say, to perform the tasks, but under the supervision of a member of the PLN. The seconded person is not reluctant to do what the board member does, only as a special staff. That's the problem. We hope that, with the three distractions in the extra places that will be given, this problem will be covered, because the Aristotle TECHA is demanding. Because there are specialisations - which are not demanded, and that is why they stop and learn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u26	Come on, Mrs. Alonitou. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u27	Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for being here and trying to resolve a problem that really takes time. Because we may be talking about a national dialogue on education to move towards a radical reform at all levels, but at the same time we should not leave the small, current, day-to-day problems of university education. I recognise that you inherited the problem from previous years. I would like to inform you that I have tried at a previous time to find a solution in this regard by submitting three different time-consuming questions to the then Minister, Mr Loverdos, who did not even agree to come and hear the question, how much more to solve it. I'll agree with you that we really need skilled staff. These people, the posted teachers from the middle education, are indeed specialized. They're highly qualified. So far it's really under the supervision of ICP members, university professors, so this job is done so far. But if we look at what would be better, I would say and suggest that you see it positively, that you move forward to changes of a permanent nature. These teachers with scientific, academic, educational qualifications that they have already taught at the highest level can be permanently transferred to the university, so that the university can also ensure its teaching and teaching hours and students can graduate on time. In strengthening this solution I present you with a document numbered 4407-6/5/2015 to the Minister of Education. It has as its theme "Transitions of permanent primary and secondary education at the Schools of Physical Education and Sport for Needs in Applications and Laboratories". I want you to see it positively. This document is signed by the four Quaestors from the four different TEFAs in the country. [[At this point, Congressman Helen Aylonitou submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Minister, it is of great importance in this difficult period that we are experiencing, not to degrade the university, but rather to maintain a high level of study that will enable our graduates to carry out their scientific work and their social missions. I would therefore say, Minister, that we share the same view, namely that it is the university that will get us out of the crisis, that it is the university that will speed up, if you like, the economic recovery of the country. But that is why the state has an obligation to ensure that students can finish their studies in time. It is the state's duty to maintain the smooth functioning of the curriculum so that the curriculum is not disrupted by any interruption in courses and finally to ensure equality and dignity towards citizens. Finally, I want to say that I accept everything you say. It's too positive. Look at the problem to solve it, but immediately you have to do something now, so the year won't be lost. If there's a man who can teach this particular lesson right now, the students won't lose their year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u28	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u29	I shall begin with what you said about the importance of universities and TEIs, I would say, of the highest institutions. I shall say, therefore, that once we have taken over, we are trying to tackle the daily problems of the highest institutions, but which are deeply political and social at the same time. We did not try to change the DNA of universities, as happened in 2011 with complete failure. We tried, on the contrary, to see in this crisis how we would stop the bleeding of young scientists, the bleeding outwards, and also to meet the major needs. That is why I said before - and I will keep stressing it all the time - that after five years, we have been recruiting permanent staff, IGC members and specialist and laboratory staff at the highest institutions. Now for the specific point you are saying - and not to be considered to be avoiding and leaving the responsibility for twenty-four years, and I stress this, it is unacceptable for a doctorate not to be elected in a position, before the crisis I am talking about - I mean, therefore, that it is also the responsibility of the departments, because we are also asking them to tell us what they need, both for posted and for temporary staff, but it is also the responsibility of the universities of the same, the institutions, to say what positions they want and what positions they want. We've given some emergency staff. If it wasn't given there, that's not our responsibility. The distribution is made internally by the institutions, not by us. We will, however, see this particular one, so that those who have asked for this qualification do not lose their degree are understood. But to tell you something, transfers can only be made to administrative posts. I mean, seconded teacher for years, he can't transfer and take part in the university without election, without anything like that. It can't be done. The seconded school transfer may only request transfer for administrative post, so that is no solution except for administrative staff. But this particular issue will be seen if and how it can be covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u30	Before we go to the next question, I'd like to make two announcements. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence "Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on the procurement of Defence Materials". Also, I have the honour to announce Monday's 11th January 2016 topical and urgent question issue. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Article 130(1)) PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for (Parliament adopted 1. The question asked by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Karagiannidis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction about the malfunctions in the area of restaurants and related businesses by how to calculate municipal taxes. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 337/4-1-2016 by MP II of Athens Mr Kostis Hatzidakis visited the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the reorganization of Athens' urban transport. 3. H under number 349/5-1-2016 of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister for Health, on the 'privatement of Thrace Muslims in notices of recruitment of health personnel of the Ministry of Health'. 4. H under number 351/5-1-2016 a topical question by MP II Piraeus the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problem of the drastic reduction in the basic support for farmers in the country. 5. The 333/4-1-2016 topical question by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Independent Greeks George Lazarides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the permanent appointment of successful philosophers in the competition of ASEP (2008-2009) which is pending. B. PORTFOLIO QUESTIONS (Article 130(2)) PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for (Parliament adopted 1. The question raised by Mr Alexandros Triantafylides, Member of the Greek Parliament, about the intentions of the Ministry of Health to regulate the law. 4238/2014, in order to address the problems for P.E.S. doctors. And the discharged U.S. doctors. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 338/4-1-2016 by MP Chios of New Democracy Mr Panagiotis (Nostis) Mitaraki to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction concerning outstanding expenses relating to the feeding of refugees to the professionals on the island of Chios. 3. The Question No 334/4-1-2016 by the Deputy of Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Finance, on the imposition of a luxury tax for the ICU. automobiles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u31	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u32	What can be the staff at this meeting, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u33	Our colleague, in developing her timely question, referred to my position as Minister of Education on some issues of parliamentary control. Because I happened to be in the Chamber and I heard it, Madam President, I would like to make a clarification because it is a matter that has been very concerned with me and I respect it in particular. Throughout my ministerial mandates, I respected every fellow Member who did timely parliamentary control, and when I couldn't be, it was certainly a Undersecretary, and although the Undersecretaries were on a journey or had a real weakness, which is very rare - very rare! - We were very careful to inform the House in good time. I do not remember having a problem with my colleague on unacceptable parliamentary behaviour, except in a case where the former President of this House in 2003 had raised a matter, because he came to the Minister himself and not the Minister himself. And I did this, Madam President, because I am aware that the government is obliged to check and control is the vigilance in the House, the oral, not the written one. That is why I cannot understand how each Member, who has an experience, has been displeased, and so on, by not respecting a particular practice and saying things. How much more, Madam President, when in this House - and in others - it is not an originality, however - there is no previous number of refusals by the Ministers to come here. There are days, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u34	It's 62%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u35	It's 62%! If this figure is statistical and given, it is unprecedented. So, "the place where they owed us, they take the ox. I would say that the softest tone and the exactest tone helps to exercise parliamentary control. Indeed, Madam President, if there is a message from this personal debate, it is up to you to force the ministers to be here. It has happened to me on a day when I was here from the twelve questions that ten should be cancelled. That is all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u36	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u37	Here, Mrs. Alonitou, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u38	Madam President, I fully respect parliamentary practice and parliamentary procedure. I'm talking about facts. When the Minister is called upon to respond, who may not be able to, but has two Deputy Ministers, so either he or the two Deputy Ministers cannot come to Parliament three different times - we are not talking about one, two or three consecutive times - it is unacceptable for Mr Lovertos to come out and say what he says. I am referring to facts. I respect the procedures and expect there to be a practice and a respect for the Members. Indeed, once something can happen, but three times at a time to three different people cannot happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u39	We continue with the first question under number 341/5-1-2016 of a topical question by Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Finance, regarding the subjection to a more favourable calculation scheme for individual hotel businesses operating in Samos Law. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Alexiadis. Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u40	Minister, thank you very much for coming to answer the question. It's very simple. If a hotel company is an individual company - and about 40% of the Samos Hotel Business are individual companies - it is an individual company, it is disproportionately charged with HICPs, with an additional tax, as compared to whether it was an individual company (A.E.) Or an EIA. The burden is not only financial, because if it is attempted to change regime - individually to become anonymous - it has contractually and accountingly great complexity, very difficult. There is, therefore, a fundamental issue of fiscal equivalency. I would therefore ask what the corrective measures are. It is certain that political pressure and economic pressure on the summer agreement have brought certain asymmetry into the system. I also recognise that a very serious job is being done, that is to say, systematic and practical, in practice, on the real economic life, on your part to rationalise the revenue system. However, in this particular example, in the case of the small hotel businesses of Samos (Samos, Fornes, Ikaria, three islands), I think there is an obvious inequality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u41	Mr Alexiadis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. I wish everyone a good year, and today, just like yesterday. I hope in 2016 that we can organise parliamentary control better. I had to be there yesterday to answer a timely question. I'm here today, too. And so that I do not accept the criticism at some point that I cannot respond to these tasks, I ask that we organise the procedure so that the Minister can come one of the two days. We respect with religious reverence our obligations towards Parliament, not for formalistic reasons, but for reasons of substance and democracy. I shall now refer to the question tabled by Mr Sevastakis. Mr Sevastakis, with sensitivity and agonism, which you have sometimes expressed on the issues of the problems of the islands, you also put this question on a very important and very important issue, which also relates to the concept of tax justice. Unfortunately, HISPIA, which contains two taxes, is not a fair tax in this area. As far as one part of the tax, the main tax, is concerned, all real estate is imposed, but as far as the second part of the tax, the supplementary tax is concerned, only natural persons over 300,000 and legal persons do not apply to the property they use. So, with simply Greek, if a hotel company is in the form of a natural person, it will pay an additional tax of over 300,000, if it is in the form of a legal person. It is one of the injustices that we do not defend. We do not think it is the right thing to do in this regard, but like all HIS and other provisions of the tax system, these are matters which we have to accept in the logic of the agreement, as you have said. But that's all for 2015. The tax is out. It must be paid in 2016 the ENPIA. There is no change now, because we will have budgetary problems. In the new tax, which we are studying to replace HNVO, we will also address these issues relating to this injustice and the better distribution of the tax burden, because we have identified too many examples. We have heard criticism - and we have heard very well from all the groups in this House - on this issue. We want property tax issues to have a fair and proportionate application of what the Constitution says. At the moment, the EMCDDA does not guarantee this distribution. I repeat for once that for 2016 we are committed to having a tax with a collectivity of 2,65. I would remind you that the ENPI has a certificate of around 3.3 billion and a collectivity of 2.65. We are committed to creating a new tax that has the same objective of collecting money, but it will be fairer and more proportionate and to meet the needs of the budget, but also to meet the needs of the Constitution for tax justice. So it is very right to criticise the government in this area. We have no possibility at this time in the ENPIA that has been issued and is being paid for some intervention, but in 2016 we will also deal with a number of other issues relating to the subject of ENPIA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u43	Mr Dimitrios Sevastakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Alexiadis, I'm recapitulating. Two hotels of exactly the same architecture, one is an individual business, the other is an EIA or anonymous company. One will pay EUR 11 000, for example, the other will pay EUR 3,500. It's a mess. If it is transferred to a regime by an individual company in another form, for example, in a corporate form, it should be charged with the self-audit tax, a form of tax in which the owner inherits and inherits himself. In other words, there is another obstacle that does not allow the market to be flexible. I would like to say to you that in 2016 - I hope - the burden on the remote islands by abolishing the VAT deduction. The remote islands have received a disproportionate economic and social pressure from the refugee. This part of the social resource, social wear, is not integrated into the economy. My proposal, my understanding, and I think it is your idea, is that there must be those arrangements to get rid of real economic life, precisely because we have this specific burden. For example, one thought would be not only to make transfer from one form of property to another more flexible without specific charges, but it would be possible to postpone the abolition of VAT deduction even further. However, my general thought is that as long as they reproduce and perpetuate tax imbalances, the tax system will suffer institutionally, it will suffer in its own formation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Alexiadis, you can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u46	In the last sentence you have put the core of the problem we are facing at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Sevastakis. We have said so many times that we are not proud, we are not satisfied with the institutional framework that our tax system currently has. We have organised procedures - and these things have already begun to go ahead - to change our tax system, in the direction of the Constitution, more fair, more proportionate, without exceptions and on the basis of each other's potential. As you quite rightly said, the same real estate, i.e. the same asset, for a property-related tax, depending on who owns, depending on the type of property, has a different burden, distorting market conditions, competitiveness. We understand very well how he was created by the then legislators and where he wanted things to go. On this subject I have said several times to Parliament and elsewhere that we should be treated differently. A property that covers a basic need for a family, built in 1970 and commercial value now of 30000 euros, pays HISH. A property of 3m euros of a Greek taxpayer who makes a statement here, but has it abroad, does not pay Symbolically 1 euros. These are injustices, which we have identified and the next legislative initiatives that we will bring, we will best deal with. In relation to the big issue you raise about VAT and its forced extension in June 2016 to the new category of islands - because we are committed to three categories to go - that is where we are really facing a big problem. It is quite right that companies from all island regions say: "Get out in time and say what you have to do, because we have to make agreements and we cannot make agreements when there is this ambiguity on the issue of which islands will be in the second group, which concerns June 2016". So that is something that we are concerned with, that is to say, that we have to respond to these operations in a timely manner, so that we can help them move forward with the right financial planning of the year. But, on the other hand, we also have the sensitivity and anguish you have shown many times, that it is not possible at the moment for the islands in remote Greece, the islands facing a terrible economic but, above all, social problem, which, once again, prove both their humanity and their people's solidarity, we should go and charge them more taxly. So we are dealing with these issues at the moment, and we are looking at them to give a very timely solution. We will raise this issue in the next few years to the competent institutions, to ensure that there are decisions and to see how we can deal with the serious problems of the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u47	Before we enter the last question, I would like to make the following announcements: The second question under number 335/4-1-2016 is the first-round question of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Members of Parliament I of the New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on how to hold the parliamentary elections, with a list or a cross of preference, if they take place within eighteen months of the last elections, will not be discussed after consultation of the honourable Member with the relevant Minister. The third, with number 339/4-1-2016, is a timely question for the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on excessive charges for electronic interbank transactions, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and more specifically the planned trip of Mr. Stathakis. ........................................ The second question, under number 336/4-1-2016, on the assessment of new financial measures for the period 2015-2016, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister, who is in Brussels. The fourth question under number 348/5-1-2016 of the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the implementation of a satellite storage plant for the fuel in a liquefied form, in the port of Patras and Egypt, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister and the Minister of State. These questions will be discussed at a forthcoming meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u48	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u49	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u50	First of all, good morning, first of all. I should like to say that the phenomenon of the refusal of the Ministers to attend has been widened and it is indeed more than 62% now that the refusals are now. However, we must say that the Conference of Presidents saw it - you were in yesterday's sitting - and it adopted the proposals that we have now tabled, and the questions which will not be debated because of an impediment, as the ministers claim, or because of any other reason there is genuine political or travel, will be discussed next, in addition to the normal questions. And that is what I think is going to solve at least. But in every ministry, indeed, there are two - three Deputy State Secretarys beyond the Minister. That's not a reason for such great cancellations. It could have been avoided and we will see it in the next period with this measure that we have taken that the figure will be reduced. I will return it for next week, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u51	It's the third time this has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u52	The President knows. It is too many times that the same or other issue has been postponed. I will put it back now because it concerns electronic transactions and the huge costs borne by bank charges, which are really a hundred times and the same amount as electronic transactions has been taken by the bank. It's very important. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Koropi High School (A' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Today's process, which you see the little world, is questions put by Members to the ministers. So the fourth question is being discussed with number 350/5-1-2016, first question from the MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the closure of the Centre for Physics and Rehabilitation of Rethymno due to a total lack of personnel. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes for the first placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Happy birthday, good year to everyone and everyone. Minister, on the same subject, a simple question was asked on 27 October by Members of the JRC, and we also have two adjournment of the timely question. The answer to the simple question by Mr Paulakis on 4 December did not cover us or rather did not answer the substance of the questions we have based on the information we have, that is, what measures will you take to fund and recruit the staff needed to put the CFP into effective operation, which is currently a bundle. And I say "the information we have", because I know that your Ministry addressed you to the General Hospital of Rethymnon to obtain information and the reply given to you by the Hospital describes in black the situation not only for the residual and subsistence of the CEFI, but also for the marginal function of the Rethymno Hospital. In fact, the answer points out very specifically that the needs of the CVMP are as follows: a physical treatment position, two physiotherapy positions, a treatment position, a reasoning position and a TE or PE post are required. You have not responded to these points. You responded instead by making a general reference to the health ministry's recruitment policy. That is why the topical and urgent question is being asked today. In fact, subsistence and sub-financing of health establishments obviously did not take place on your day. But you were saying to the Rethymnonites, and things are evolving, and in words, as our people say, you build upright and down. So reality is very different. You told them you'd restore these problems and meet the needs. Unfortunately, you are once again following the fall of all the previous governments. In other words, the problem is perpetuated and this perpetuation is charged to your own government, which, with its policy, continues the policy of previous governments and is against the modern folk needs, which you are giving them to the private rehabilitation centres, one of which has this big company, which has spread its wings throughout Greece, which is in Crete, in Chania. So as you know, this center is the only one in Crete. It has 12 beds, equivalent chambers, has the necessary hotel equipment, modern physiotherapy equipment and many patients' capacity. But the question remains closed: why is it still closed? You had a meeting with the disabled in Rethymnon and promised them a natural therapist. Pleasure in front of the announcements and the real needs that this center has! Therefore, Minister, the question we ask is very specific. : What do you intend to do, what measures will you take to ensure the financing and immediate recruitment of permanent medical and paramedical personnel, nursing, administrative and other personnel, with a full-time and full-time employment relationship, covering the real potential of Rethymnon CPVO and its uninterrupted functioning? We, as a Communist Party of Greece, must make it clear - because these have also been said - that we are opposed to 'blocks' and flexible working relations, as suggested by the 7th RCF. In other words, the Government, your Ministry, had proposed that it be operated with blocked workers, i.e. rewardingly, while the latest proposal of the State Secretary three months ago, if I remember correctly, was to transfer IKA medical services there and of course it met the strong reaction from retired people, but also from people with disabilities and "frozen" then this proposal was frozen. The question, Minister, is not whether this rehabilitation centre will belong to the Ministry of Health and Rethymnon Hospital or whether it will go to Prosperity. And I say that from this point of view. : What are you going to do when it is understood when it is not working, when it has put a padlock, when people turn to private rehabilitation centers and even under conditions of a severe capitalist crisis like the one we are experiencing today? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u55	Before the Minister responds, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the Educational Programme 'Democracy Workshop' organized by the Foundation, twenty-four students and students and four teachers from the Intercultural School of Alsopoli. The House welcomes them. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u56	My dear colleague, thank you for the question, because it gives me the opportunity to answer a question concerning the hospital to which I was working and the law to which I am elected. You are right to highlight the problem of the failure of the Center for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in Rethymno. This structure has a quite long history of residual operation. You know very well that these CFPs are the development of CEECs, which were specific centres, and they were structures of a certain welfare nature, built in the 1990s with European resources. They've never actually been posted. They didn't offer the services they could have, even though the equipment was there. There was a continuous course of degressive staffing and then they became their evolution in 2011, in the form of CFPs. They joined hospitals and constitute organic elements, cross-sectoral parts of public hospitals. This section, after a course came - I think the maxim - to have five employees. At some point there was a last natural therapist, which had a serious health problem, which removed her from service and practically since spring this year has stopped working. The role of this service is very important and let me say that the political reason why there has been no serious reinforcement of these services over time was that it was somehow concluded by the old political system that the rehab sector is a privileged place to invest in the private sector. It is right to find that the gap between public policy and public policy has covered a private sector, which also from the little experience we have in the Ministry's position, we know that there are problems of sound management of the resources that have public and effective control and the quality and volume of the services provided. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] It is our political will, therefore, to give support to this part. It is a huge deficit that public health policy, the rehabilitation sector, has today. There is only one public hospital specialist in Athens and there are very few CEFIs, most of them throughout the country are down. That's not a word, it's going to happen. We believe that in 2016, if everything goes well, perhaps in the first half of 2016, we have the possibility of reopening the CEFI in Rethymnon. We have scheduled three recruitments of permanent staff in the package which we will be publishing as soon as the first phase is completed. You know very well that the AACC is giving us these days tables for the first set of permanent staff, after six years in the health system, nine hundred eighty-five seats and we will be reopening immediately after another two thousand four hundred forty. So, in the second package, there will be three positions: one physical therapist, one therapist and one therapist. It's half the ones the hospital's asking for. The request is for six seats, right. But, at this stage, this is the real possibility of strengthening this centre. We believe it will be a first step in its reopening. We are also preparing an intervention at regional level involving the Hospital Swamp in Naples, where a serious effort is being made, and there is already a preparation for a public restoration centre and for this sector to be strengthened, especially in the region of Crete. This structure of Rethymnon has a regional dimension and that is why it is very important for us to support it. I believe that with this development, which we have set out, resources are guaranteed by the budget and it is a matter of speeding up the procedures and the ADP to be able to quickly take this human resource and upgrade a service that is very important to us. In the middle of this period in this centre, its building infrastructure is exploited to house social functions. That is to say, the hospitality of the hospital's psychiatric Clinic operates. The Association "Love" operates, a charity supporting children with disabilities. It is also housed for its operational needs and the association of families of children with autism in Rethymno Prefecture. I believe that this structure has the potential to provide very important services in an area, in an area which is lagging behind by the state, and that is why we have the political will to fight it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor. Please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u58	Yes, Madam President. In relation to the last thing you said, Minister, the Rethymnon CFP has indeed been allocated for another use. They are hospitable there, but with the following difference, that they cannot make the slightest use of the laboratory facilities that the Centre has. They don't have any qualified staff. It's a simple housing. Good - badly, to the extent it's closed, but that's not what he's saying in itself. Let the "Love" Association go. As soon as Metropolis finishes repairs to the building, it will be gone, as will the two clubs that remain where they actually use it two afternoons a week. Nothing more and nothing less. But beyond that, there is one issue, Minister. All this time that will remain closed where the attendants will resort? Where are they going? The Caucasus, that is, social isolation. Probably some die because that's where they go and serious motor cases, etc., after injuries. So either these people die or those who leave will go to the private centers. It doesn't explain any differently. And here's exactly the myth that he can coexist with the public with the private. In this direction, this inertia that has been presented today very much fears that it will continue because of the impotence of the government, but also because of the fact that you, as well as your partners, are invoking outside the divergence of economic objectives, so that each time you are put in the neck, with your own acceptance. Consequently, this inertia on substance means a virgin ground for business activity, i.e. in the nails of operators. On this occasion, I would like to tell you that this activity of private groups in health is coming to strengthen the new anti-insurance attack that your Government is preparing and also through the specific bill that your Government has already submitted for private insurance, which, among other things, will extend the reductions in insurance funds to medical care by making patients resort to similar private centres and of course will pay for the provision of health services. Indeed, what you said is true, a PASOK and a New Republic of the former governments, a silent avata for the investment activity of the business sector in the field of rehabilitation, which was gigantic. Yeah, but that's what's happening now. There is no insurance policy, as a result of the policy being pursued, that this will stop. And, indeed, the insurance funds continue to pay 150 euros a day at least for rehabilitating the private sector, which on an annual basis dematerialises EUR 50 million for rehabilitating insured persons. So, Minister, it is primarily a matter for you to proceed directly to the recruitment of all those personnel needed to operate the CFP, not just in Rethymnon. You're talking about the Lassithi Swallower. Does Heraklion have any needs? Chania doesn't have a need? Or should a small part of the government be covered and the rest go to the private rehabilitation centers? 'Behold, the Rhodes, behold and the jump.' If these intentions have a value, a basis, then go ahead with the implementation of all these measures. We are talking about this because, for the Communist Party of Greece, it is important that the health and welfare system is purely public, free, uniform and universal, developed at all levels - primary, secondary, tertiary - there should be public free centres for the rehabilitation and support of the disabled, the long-term sufferers, their families and the abolition of all business activities. On these axes, the JRC also calls on workers, pensioners, insured persons, insurers, people with disabilities and disability problems, to fight and claim in this direction such a health system and within this framework to function the rehabilitation centres as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u59	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u60	My dear colleague, we have often had this debate. Once again I want to be unequivocal. Political project to reduce public welfare does not currently exist in the country. Equally, it is our absolute political priority to strengthen the National Health System, strengthen public structures, increase their capacity to meet people's accumulated needs, either for primary care or for the monitoring of laboratory, clinic, or for hospital and rehabilitation. That is our political will. Obviously a landscape bombed and collapsed cannot be transformed within a few months. The negative interventions which had taken place in recent years were accumulated. However, this period will gradually be implemented a plan and consolidation and reorganisation of the health system, which will bring about a significant improvement in the daily life of public hospitals and primary care structures in 2016. We have appointed six hundred auxiliary doctors, my dear colleague, in the past few months. We have appointed over a hundred permanent doctors from old crises that have been pending since 2010, 2011 and 2012. We have moved forward with the first package of permanent staff of about a thousand people. These days the AACC will bring us the results and we will proceed with their appointment. We're calling a second package of two and a half thousand. We will have five hundred posts specifically for the Intensive Troubles Units, with two-year contracts through the CEDEFOP. We have received approval from the Ministerial Council for another five hundred eighty-five non-medical staff notice as auxiliary staff. These are not samples for scripting the health system. They are samples of progressive and studied policy, of methodological steps and of course within the context of the difficult budgetary margins in the country, to strengthen public care. The private sector is not being abolished administratively, my dear colleague. We are strengthening the public's ability to respond to needs, and that is how speculative - let us say - private sector intervention is functionally limited. That is our view. The support is the operation of the private sector for us. We have a public care bias. This plan is being implemented because it is precisely because we believe that at a time when austerity continues in the country and the burden due to the agreement, there must be social compensation and that is a credible public health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate is closed. The minutes of the sittings of Thursday 15 October 2015, Friday 23 October 2015, Thursday 29 October 2015, Friday 30 October 2015, Saturday 31 October 2015 and Monday 2 November 2015 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u62	The minutes of Thursday 15 October 2015, Friday 23 October 2015, Thursday 29 October 2015, Friday 30 October 2015, Saturday 31 October 2015 and Monday 2 November 2015 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-08-S1-commons.u63	With the agreement of the House at 11.26 hours, the sitting for Monday, 11 January 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed.
