ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "The necessary arrangements to harmonise Greek legislation with the new Anti-Donoping Code of the World Organisation and other provisions". In addition, the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adjustment of Greek legislation: (a) the provisions of Directive 2013/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 and (b) Article 1 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 and other provisions’. Finally, the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs submits its report to the draft law: "Following the RACVIAC - Security Cooperation Centre". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "The necessary arrangements for harmonising Greek legislation with the World Anti-Doping Code and other provisions". The above bill, following the decision of the permanent parliamentary committee, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, held on 16 March 2016, the debate and vote of the bill will take place at a meeting today, which will be completed tomorrow, following parliamentary scrutiny. The rapporteurs, the speakers, the Prime Minister, the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and one of their representatives are involved in the debate. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose that five speakers from SYRIZA be given the floor, three speakers from New Democracy, a certain speaker from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, a certain speaker from the Democratic Association, a certain speaker from the JRC, a certain speaker from the Potami, a certain speaker from the Independent Greeks and a certain speaker from the Central Association. I also propose that the debate on the principle and the articles should be uniform. I propose that the rapporteurs and the special speakers should have twelve minutes of speaking time. The Minister responsible should have 13 minutes of speaking time. The Deputy Minister in charge has 10 minutes of speaking time. The other ministers, undersecretaries, have eight minutes of speaking time. The Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, as well as the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, have fourteen minutes of speaking time. The Presidents of the other groups shall have 12 minutes of speaking time. Parliamentary representatives should have 10 minutes of speaking time. The parties designated to have seven minutes of speaking time. Dentality is limited to half the time of semantics, when there is. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u2	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u3	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u4	You're welcome, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u5	Will the bill vote be taken tonight?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u6	It is the decision of the Conference of Presidents that I have announced. But if there is unanimity of all parties... The decision of the Conference of Presidents, however, is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u7	Is the vote going to take place tonight or tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u8	If all parties agree, and of course the government, the minister to finish tonight...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u9	Tomorrow...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u10	Let's finish tonight, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u11	But we have to respect the times to finish tonight. Let us finish tonight or we will implement the decision of the Conference of Presidents. As far as I can tell, there is no disagreement to end tonight. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u12	All parties unanimously agree to end this evening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u13	Mr President, there has been an objection from the representative of the Communist Party of Greece to end this evening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u14	I have the impression that he does not insist, Minister, that is why I am moving on. As Parliamentary Representatives, Ms. Vakis for SYRIZA, Mr. Dendias for the New Democracy, Mr. Lagos for the Golden Dawn, Mr. Theocharopoulos for the Democratic Compact of PASOK - DIMAR, Mr. Pafilis for the KKE, Mr. Amyras for the Potami, Mr. Papachristopoulos for the Independent Greeks, Mr. Karras for the Association of Kentros. The rapporteurs have been appointed for SYRIZA, Mrs Karamanlis for the New Democracy. Special speakers have been appointed Mr. Gregos for the Golden Dawn, Mrs. Kefalidou for the Democratic Compact PASOK - DIMAR, Mr. Giokas for the JRC, Mr. Mavrotas for the River, Mr. Dimitris Kammenos for the Independent Greeks, Mr. Megalomustakas for the Central Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u15	Time to come up, have you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u16	No, we haven't. We said we'll see for tonight. In order to do this, however, Mr Amyras, we must respect the times. Otherwise, it will not be implemented in practice. Mrs Dritselli has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill introduced today for a debate in plenary could say that it extends essentially to two levels, but it is governed by the same principle, which governs all legislative initiatives, especially the leadership of the Ministry of Sport, the uninterrupted effort made by the government since the previous Genoa to restore credibility in sport, but also, in fact, to address many mistakes or misgivings or omissions or injustices in previous years. The objective, however, remains and will remain the same, and it is no other than that every legislative initiative seeks to be another weapon in the patronage, which we need for cleansing, iso-statement, isopoliticalism at all levels and, of course, in the field of all sports activities. So, with this bill today, we incorporate an international Antidoping Code in our national legislation, as he has recently been updated by the World Federation of Antidoping. This legislative step is absolutely essential to the uninterrupted participation of our country's sport in international sports events, and at the same time the incorporation of these provisions is of enormous practical importance for the prevention and treatment of pharmacology in Greek sport, at a time when the world's sports community is confessed to be shocked by constant revelations about doping cases, unfortunately in almost all sports. The government therefore sets strong foundations in this bill for protecting sport and athletes against practice of materialism, while at the same time equipped with all the necessary institutional, technical and legal means to ensure that this fight against doping is given and effectively given. The fact is that some of the warrings of the opposition have been raised with regard to the process of discussing the bill. Obviously, the abbreviation of parliamentary procedures is not an objective either of the government or of Members who support it. However, admittedly - and I think it has been said to all tons - the leadership of the General Secretariat of Sport has given true battle to prevent it from legislating within the procedures provided for by the World Federation of Procedures. It is also worth noting that the Greek legal system had been updating the framework for combating doping since 2006, when it had ratified the UNESCO Convention against Drug Addiction. The coverage of this gap was a systematic and lasting task for months and a constant consultation with the World Federation. At the same time, however, the government also restored the functioning of the National Council for the fight against doping, whose funding, unfortunately, had been depleted in previous years by the previous political leadership. Today, the funding of the ESRB has been fully restored through the state budget, while the framework introduced by this bill to combat materialism is a modern and stable institutional shield of sport and our athletes against the scourge of doping. With this full arsenal Greek sport will have the opportunity to represent the country in this year's Olympic Games and to give the world the fans a clean sight and great successes. The code against doping, which we are incorporating today, is based on two parallel pillars: on the one hand, it is based on tightening the treatment of pharmacopoeia, giving and responsibilities and penalties to all stakeholders, including the users of substances, to coaches, players and associations, but also to federations. On the other hand, it creates an independent institutional framework for dealing with cases to a first and second degree, and this framework is linked to the International Court of Appeal. This fortification ensures the rights of athletes, strengthens and shields the impartiality of procedures and at the same time fully shields the objectivity of decision-making. At the same time, the effectiveness of controls through the introduction of new technical tools, such as the biological passport, makes methods for detecting the use of banned substances more modern and the Greek institutional framework acquires all the means necessary for the battle it wants to give. The main institutional pillar of this code is the National Council for the Combat of Doping, as is being reactivated and the National Anti-Doping Agency, the EEC. In the framework of the ESRB, a comprehensive independent primary disciplinary committee is set up to examine the cases of pharmacification, in accordance with the World Federation's requirements for decoupling the institutions from the national sports federations. In this committee, three doctors, three lawyers and three people of sport are involved, and secondly, a competent body is appointed to examine these cases. The Higher Council for Dispute Settlement of Sports, as well as the International Sports Court, which can now examine directly cases of pharmacopoeia in Greek sport. One of the main tools of the new institutional framework is the stricterisation of penalties. According to international norms, the causes of exclusion in cases of case detection are increased, while apart from athletes and coaches, sanctions will now include, by means of concrete forecasts, sport operators, i.e. sports clubs, associations and federations. In cases of cases, state funding will be stopped in the federations, while all economic and other state rewards will be deducted to athletes and coaches. Obviously, we know that the issue of doping is a multi-level phenomenon, a multi-factor phenomenon and, of course, it is inextricably linked to the indiscriminate commercialisation of professional scores. So the state's responsibility is to shield scientific and institutional as best sport as possible in order to prevent as many cases as possible. It is precisely in this direction that the General Secretariat of Sports supports scientific research and anti-doping institutions, strengthening, as has been said, both the ESRB and the control and detection laboratories. This whole effort is obviously part of the implementation of our Radical Reform Programme in Sport, for the resolution and for the clearance of professional sport, as well as for the protection - and above all for the protection - of the rights of professional athletes, amateur athletes, fans and the sport community as a whole. The fight against doping, that is, fight against fraud, sport and conflict with all forms of networks of illegal action or violence, are the main programming objectives, which we are implementing with this legislative intervention. The second part on which this draft law deals is about a number of issues, which regulates many years, we would say, loose ends, which afflict athletes, fans, coaches and the administration of sport for too long. These provisions strengthen transparency in the performance of state funding in sport and significantly operating problems arise in the establishment plan of the General Secretariat of Sports, crucial issues which, as far as we do not understand it, really prevented the state's work from being carried out in sport policy. At the same time, these provisions strengthen accessibility of disabled people in sports areas. A number of issues are finally resolved concerning the studenting of distinguished athletes in higher education and unsolved outstandings concerning the rewards of athletes and coaches for sports successes. It also facilitates the participation of disabled athletes in major sports events, as well as other important and urgent issues, to which Members will refer later. I would like to pay particular attention to Article 24 and to the creation of the Electronic Register of Sport Sports Operators, which will be established directly by the General Secretariat of Sports. This register will include all information on the structure, activity and economics of operators in order to be able to monitor their situation in real time. With this organisational section, the General Secretariat will be able to know the sporting activity of each club, sports union and any national federation, so as to facilitate the fair return of state funding to all operators of sport. With these provisions we feel - and I think we will do so - that we are finally putting an end to sporting and sports stamps and to all forms of misuse of public money. We hope this initiative will be supported by all the wings of the House, as this database will enable the state to finally help healthy sport and put an end to corruption practices and customer relations of the past. It is also a very important provision in Article 48 which enshrines the right to work for university-educational coaches in higher education athletics. With this article finally putting an end to an unacceptable one - we would say - practice of blocking graduates' masters, especially professional football. The fact is that the entire sporting community had stigmatized the unacceptable tolerance of the state of previous years to the practices that they wanted the permission of a coach to be given after some rapid seminars of a certain type, of course, of sports federation, which were most often insecurely paid. Ladies and gentlemen, the government with this bill intervenes once again positively in Greek sport. We are making our commitments to clean up professional sport and to substantial support for healthy sporting activity. In this bill, our ally is also the sporting community, but society, which wants and will support the effort of the government. Before closing, I would like to mention, Minister, an amendment we have tabled, which deals with the regulation of renting of municipal homes for sports activities. It is somewhat improved from the initial and provides an extension to some leases that had taken place last year, of course, by ensuring and safeguarding the public interest and local communities as well. I imagine you'll see her and accept her. I conclude by saying this: we are moving forward, ladies and gentlemen, with steady steps and with our ally now a complete institutional arsenal, with which we can ensure the healthy presence of Greek sport both in the Olympic Games and in all the sports events. We are sure that Greek athletes and our national teams will give us all a great deal of discrimination and that Greek sport will finally work crystal at all levels. In this effort, all of us continue to be supportive, and we will be charitable, and will be able to do so in the effort the Ministry's political leadership has started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Drittelli. Here, Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is being passed through the problematic parliamentary practice of urgency. The Minister has not been able to give us a convincing response to this option, because of course we cannot believe that he has been consulting for months on the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the World Doping Code. It has not managed to convince us of the need for additional provisions to be incorporated into this bill, without any consistency. He also told us, in order to justify the roughness of the bill, that he was not obliged to testify to the dismantled and modified provisions, and he troubled us all until yesterday afternoon. I would therefore present to you, on the Minutes of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Rule 85, which confirms exactly the opposite and what the bill should be accompanied by. [[At this point Members Anna Karamanlis present for the minutes the above mentioned passage of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is clear that the adaptation of our legislation to the WADA Code was the vehicle to cross the blockade of everything else, because it could well be done by a ministerial decision, as was done in 2012 with Mr Nikitiiadis and the other provisions, of course, to be incorporated into another law and not as urgent. Furthermore, the explanatory statement mentions nothing about the end date 18-3-2016 for the adaptation of Greek legislation for something that has been in force since 1 January last year. So you're going to have to legislate in communications on requests from afflicted - it's the truth - sporting players. These are tactics that I think should be avoided. It goes without saying that everyone - state, parties, national federations - accepts the WADA rules that are common to the entire sports planet. This acceptance is compulsory for every country that wishes to belong equally to the international sporting movement and is directly linked to issues of integrity in sport. I would even say, Minister, that we should have the will to go further and emphasise prevention by informing the young children about the consequences of pharmacopoeia. We are therefore voting on Articles 1 to 23 of the Doping bill and at the same time we have to propose the following changes: In Article 9.1.1 on the primary disciplinary committee, you shall remove responsibilities from ordinary judges - at least in relation to some group sports - and you shall assign them to a nine-member committee designated by the ETUC. As I said to you in committee, a year ago you were in favour of the need for ordinary judges to be present and now you are legislating in the very opposite direction. Our proposal, if you insist that the committee should be designated by the ESRB, is as follows: To be responsible for doping infringement cases, to be three-year-olds, composed exclusively of judges who will be appointed by the judiciary itself, and simply for the administrative part, for the appointment decision to come out of the Minister of Sports. This ensures, firstly, that it is a flexible and small body for all sports and at a lower cost and, secondly, that they are tried by ordinary judges, according to your philosophy, Minister. So we have a guarantee of impartiality and transparency, as your explanatory statement states, which says the federations' primary schools are putting small penalties. I'm making our proposal. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Alternatively, if you insist that the institution in which not only lawyers, but also doctors, athletes and others participate, we propose that the majority of these be made up of ordinary judges. As far as the second part of the bill is concerned, Article 24 relating to the creation of the General Secretariat of Sports bodies is concerned, is governed by a very bureaucratic conception. The institutions, federations and the UN have told you that they are facing very serious problems. To make it clear first of all that the New Democracy is categorically in favour of the household and the evaluation of the action of federations and unions on the basis of objective criteria. But in this case there is an extremely suffocating framework, which is impossible to function. We do not understand, for example, what it is appropriate to demand VAT for athletes and minors - most do not have - and also for volunteers. We ask you to withdraw this provision, at least for VDUs. Nor is it realistic, Minister, to charge amateur associations, which, in the vast majority, are not subsidised by the State, with excessive and unfavourable obligations. The unions should be exempt from this obligation and apply to the federations, although the difficulties, as they have developed in hearing the bodies, will be important. We would also like you to tell us if you have predicted, Minister, that the GPS cross-checks all these data that will be submitted, given that we are talking about a huge amount of data, which must be updated every few minutes and a little. In Article 25 on access to sports spaces for people with motor problems, targeting is correct and must always comply. The consequences of non-compliance, however, are particularly heavy, Minister. In Article 26, with which you change the composition of the administration of Katratzoglou, we do not understand the desirability of change and why, Minister, you want the majority here and here to be in control. Is it in accordance with the terms of the Kakatzoglou covenant? Please tell us a few words, of course, if you go to the trouble. In Article 27 we agree with the participation of the representative of police officers in the ICES, and we would like to propose another change: the senior officer of ELAS participating in the ICES has served in the Sub-Sports Violence Sub-Accession and thus have an adequate knowledge of the issues and experience. I believe your partners should record this because you are dealing with other rather serious issues!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u20	What do you think, my colleague? I note what you say to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u21	In Article 29, the National Sport Planning Council has not even worked on our day. That's the truth. But that does not mean, Minister, that we do not need a body to draw up a national strategy for sport. We will all agree that there are also the personalities with the prestige required, but also the willingness to offer, which can be involved. Instead of abolishing it, we propose that it be converted into a more flexible shape, which can evolve into a useful advisor to the state in matters of sport. Article 30 provides for the creation of a Committee on International Relations. Minister, there is already an address in the Secretariat-General of Sports and international relations. What's the point of creating a new, beyond your definition of some of your chosen ones, obviously? In Article 33, the provision to be hired through an APA and the guardians of the federations is judged to be at least extreme. Those who have done sport know the particular role of carers and we must recognise the right to federations to choose their own carers. We therefore ask that these exceptions be added to the exemptions at least. Article 38 recognises to the members of the audit mechanisms of the ESRB and of the Committee on Professional Sport privileges which do not enjoy any of the political or political factors themselves. In fact, those who happen to be civil servants are not even referred, based on the Public Disciplinary Code. How do you accept in advance that someone is prevented from carrying out his duties poorly and only to be referred to for slanderful defamation and excitement? Why do these persons have the immunity of committing other serious offences against individuals whose acts and decisions they control? It is understandable that the committees that control and decide in the context of their duties, in accordance with sporting law, must in some way be protected against arbitrary sues and persecution on the part of the controlled, but this must obey certain limits. In Article 40, the movement of personnel, by way of derogation from the provisions in force, was clearly photographic and left open for rosphetological locations. The state has laid down the conditions and criteria that must apply to everyone, and not the Minister of Staff moves to do so. So the assent of the staff member to move and the agreement of the staff council, as added at noon, is in agreement with us. With regard to the declassification of the sporting arch as a weapon, in Article 41, there was a lot of talk about consultation and we heard the representative of the archery in the committee. While the first paragraph regulates the issue, a chronic problem affecting this Federation, you are coming with the second paragraph and you are complicating things. We therefore ask you to reject the second paragraph, otherwise we will vote against it. With Article 43, for the electronic ticket and the media, you amend your own law, Law No.4326/2015. The law should be applied in its essence and the means of making real use of the fight against violence. Instead of prohibiting participation, however, the impact on the non-conformity of groups with anticipated groups could be, for example, the conduct of the fight behind closed doors. On the very topical subject of violence, Minister, I will be back. To sum up, I believe everyone is aware that you have not brought a bill to deal with doping. You brought it with drum hits and as an emergency to satisfy micro-political purposes. That is why we are voting against it in principle. And I hope that the long-awaited sport law, which has been announced many times and we still have not seen it, is not governed by this philosophy and that you have a comprehensive and structured plan for Greek sport. In conclusion, I will turn to the subject of violence and what was unprecedented yesterday in committee. Neither too little nor much did you tell us yesterday that significant progress has been made over the previous year because we have not been dead! That's what you told us. There's in the Minutes, Mr. Contonis, don't make a fuss about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u22	I said that for your days we were dead and you didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u23	Is that your success? That's where you put the cubit, Minister, if there's any dead? What's your reaction to the cases of violence? To cancel the events? In your sense, therefore, if traffic is prohibited outside, traffic accidents will be eliminated. That's what you're telling us. And since you consider the interruption to be a solution, and you're also impenetrable in matters of violence, why didn't you do it for the championship? There have also been incidents there. Your moves remind you of flares like the ones that fly the turbulence on the field. You're referring to the bill, the online ticket and the cameras. How did you use these means in this year's cases of violence? Did you find out from the camera who created the episodes? Did you identify from the online ticket who invaded racing spaces and broke them? Has the GAAP technical service checked that these archaic, in many cases, systems operate or have simply thrown the ball into the teams and organising authorities by transferring the supervisory instruments and washing your hands? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. These are the moves, therefore, that nothing is essential but they do not offer. That's a good front window. You're doing great anyway! It's all the others' fault! We take responsibility, if you like, for the propaganda sin! We don't have a problem. But at some point you should also look at the intestines of Greek sport, which day after day is increasingly deceived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u24	Thank you, Mrs Karamanlis. Mr. Gregos, special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. A bill came again with the usual urgency procedure. Fortunately, we have been prevented and called on the bodies who have come and told us very important things. As stated in the bill, the purpose of the World Code of Antidopting and the World Programme of Antidopting, which supports it, is to protect the fundamental right of athletes to participate in sport, without the use of so-called doping, and therefore to promote the health, justice and equality of athletes throughout the world, and in particular, to ensure recognised, coordinated and effective programmes against doping at international and national level, in terms of identifying, preventing and preventing doping. Clearly, we should be in line with the WADA requirements, as referred to in Articles 1 to 22, for which we will vote 'PARA'. In this respect, the relevant bodies were identified during the hearing, which, as I said before, was necessary and particularly enlightening. We are, however, keeping some points on translation. For the rest, we have the need to work staff, as the bodies, particularly caretakers, have said, the need to increase controls - I do not know if it can be defined, Mr Minister, a deaf ear to the number of checks - their comments on the Agencies Register and whether personal data are violated or whether there are too many supporting documents required. We agree with the increase in time of up to three months that has been said, the need for financial control, the proper use of the NCA, which has not been used until now, and the need for staffing with workers, but not naturally with party criteria, as is customary. We highlight our position on the Archery Federation which has submitted and a request to declassify the sporting arch as a weapon - I think it is Articles 41, 42 - which we support, because properly according to the Federation, this will lead to further development of the sport. It does not pose risks when safety rules of course are complied with. We're not talking here about the regiment's archer, the known anarchist. We're talking about athletes. And on that basis, the same problem will arise with fencing, bullets, or even the axe. We have submitted a report on 18-2-2016 and I submit it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antony Gregos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Moreover, as far as archery is concerned, the same applies to most countries in the world, with the note of course of the specifications in force at the Olympic Games and the global and pan-European events. Otherwise, championships will be postponed and even athletes will be referred to the prosecutor. We note here that archery is one of the oldest Olympic sports. We have also heard the representatives of the UEFA, and I would like to inform them that on 11-4-2013 we submitted a letter asking UEFA - listen to this, Minister, because it is important that you do everything you can - not to use the term "Macedonia" in any organization. We did the same to FIFA with a similar written request on 3-10-2012. I present to you the letters of the Golden Dawn to the federations. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antony Gregos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have also referred to the paralympians in the committee. I told you, Minister, that we are in contact with the paralympians and we have been denounced that during their preparation they have neither clothes nor shoes. I said you disagree with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u26	The president of the federation disproved you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u27	The President said 'I share the view'. That's what I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u28	He said that's not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u29	I can get you a written report. I wish it didn't exist. Thank you very much. Clearly for us and distinguished athletes should be treated accordingly. We also have the honour of one of them, Mr. Tasos Stathas, who is the fourth Olympian in Seoul - going for a candidate with the Golden Dawn in the elections. More generally, the paths of the doping phenomenon are dazzling, but not particularly dark. Unfortunately, as I have said in committee, they appear in gym spaces and it is particularly worrying that young children are getting involved in this world on a specific route and a specific ending. We are talking here about the destruction of their health primarily and of a great financial burden. The Golden Dawn supports healthy sport, fair play and good sports standards. They are vertically opposed to the use of such methods that cause destruction both at personal level and at club level. There is the Golden Dawn program posted on its website. I'm going to read it to you, and I'm going to go on with the bill. According to the Golden Dawn program there is: Compulsory sports education for Greek youth, which is, unfortunately, the most obese in Europe. Compulsory selection of individual or group sports by the first classes and ratings of performance. The goal is for Greek children to gain the excellent physical condition, the spiritual clarity and the other advantages of classical sport. Direct access to decent sports stadiums for all Greeks, subsidisation of municipal sports organisations, aimed at cultivating a fighter's spirit to the people, the state has practically supported championship, which has unfortunately been salted by mercenary Greeks and the introduction of combat classical sports, such as wrestling and boxing, in education. I will continue with the bill, saying that it was clear that the government had to do the right thing, to have the time to refer to this bill, because the dates were suffocating. But it's not something that surprises us. The new Republic and the PASOK applied the same practice. This bill is coming marginally in order to avoid the punishment of the expulsion from the Olympic Games. We must say that doping is inextricably linked to crime and threatens the health of too many. The financial figures, as we have said in the committee, which are at stake, are really inconceivable. Clearly we condemn any success of an athlete who is a product of pharmaceutical or chemical substances. The eloquent struggle, as you know, has been taught in Greece and alas if we violate the ideals of sport - the ancient Greeks have even taught it - but we have to judge the source of the problem and there have to focus. We say that, first of all, we must review the values of sport and, above all, of sport. When for years the whole philosophy of the Olympic Games had a specific threefold, fateful things went on other routes. I'm talking about the possibilities of athletes. Symphony these people reached a road and used any illegal substances. When even former champions say that without steroids it is impossible to win a gold medal, you realize that the doping industry has been placed in the service of the spectacle. Consequently, the most ignorant realizes that doping will not fight whatever bills are passed, no matter how many provisions pass and that will not happen as long as the evil is not hit on its root. What do I mean? The annual turnover of trade in banned substances amounts to many millions. The amounts moved on the black market mainly and on the Internet take the form of income for certain acceptable criminal activities. Anyone who, in other words, decides to hit doping must accept that he is facing enormous economic interests. The previous governments alone did not try to combat this phenomenon. We hope you can make it. But there is a need for a real political will. It will not be solved if the stakeholders do not contribute to dealing with this phenomenon. It is funny to believe that from the hundreds of athletes who are struggling at global events, positive for inspections appears to be one or two at most. There is a reluctance of the committees to arrest champions, and this is only exceptionally the case. However, if we really want to talk about banned substances, then we should not ignore some strange preparations of which many contain doping substances and which are freely marketed. This is where the EFF really needs to intervene and see what happens with these preparations. This is clear from the moment that profits and sales, as I have said before, are particularly high. In other words, we are going back to the original question, what exactly are we going to fight? As far as the articles are concerned, our speaker will also be mentioned. I told you in Articles 1-22 we would vote'residents'. Article 23 is moving in the right direction. It goes without saying that where there is irrevocable condemnation of a doping infringement, it is not understood that the athlete should maintain the privileges granted to him in an earlier period and before the infringement is established. The same applies to Article 24. It is the only way to control clubs and sports organisations and to combat the conflict, it is indeed within the planned time to complete the procedures for setting up the register, so that the government and the Minister themselves can show the will to combat this phenomenon of corruption and so-called 'parallel' in the field of sport. We are talking about a 'paragus' which has been in existence for many years and, unfortunately, there is still. We also consider Article 25 as positive, as well as Articles 26 and 27, in which we shall vote 'the present'. We are clearly 'according to Article 28' because privileges are granted to athletes abroad or stateless. In other words, it is not enough that Greece has turned into a warehouse of immigrants or refugees - say as you wish - but those who live in Greece and participate in sports must be equal to Greek citizens and give them posts! Clearly we are 'against'. We consider Articles 29 and 30 positive and, in particular, Article 31 as well as Article 32. We will say'residents' in Article 33, but it will make us clear - but not restrictive - what are the specialities of persons who are recruited, what are their typical qualifications and what are the categories that are not included, namely those mentioned in the article. The reason why we are pointing this out is to avoid appointments which serve the well-known party interests and move into the logic of rhysphetology. You yourself, Minister, refused to do so in committee and said that there was no such thing. We have no reason to question it, as long as we see it. I remember that you told the committee that we were not talking about Rusphetti. We shall vote 'in accordance with Article 35' because we have reservations about the role and powers of the Minister. We have a good option, but your interventionism gives us some thoughts. We are also opposed to Article 36. What exactly does ‘not be able to repay travel costs’? Retrospectively, will money be taken? Even in cases where they are not entitled, there will be a simple reference which says 'it has not been possible to repay them'. It is the Ministry's responsibility to control the beneficiaries and the non-beneficiaries. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We are positively judging Articles 37, 38 and 39. Clearly we are 'according to Article 40, where there is provision for the movement of an official of the General Secretariat of Sports by way of derogation. Rather, it refers to the best functioning of the General Secretariat. We consider Article 41 to be positive, as is 42. We in the committee have already pointed out the need to delete the phrase 'and may also be reasons why people remain unpunished'. Any other arrangement is a personal reason for lifting desperation and cultivating reasonable mobism. The citizen, as I have said in committee, becomes informant to the investigating authorities and is rewarded. In Article 43 we shall vote 'the present'. We agree that it is necessary to check the persons who enter the court who are responsible for the incident, but the state's inability to control sports spaces cannot be transferred to the clubs and therefore to all fans. Article 44 considers it a good thing that the Minister is respected by the four-month timetable and that the distinguished athletes do not lose the financial reward due to the improper activity of third parties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As I do not have time and respect my colleagues, the rest of the articles will be placed on our speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Grego. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organised and operated, seventeen students and students and three educational sessions from the 3rd Litochorus School of Pieria. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It is also known in this House that MP Ilhan Ahmet, MP Rhodope, at his request to the Bureau of the Greek Parliament, is applying for a two-day leave abroad (Turkey) for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u31	The House approved the requested permission. We're moving on with the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Kefalidou. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, your own executives are taking advantage of your tactics. You in SYRIZA, however, seem to be not getting words. You're choosing to pull the categorical. Avoid, like the devil the linguist, all forms of collectiveness as you avoid touching all the big issues until they reach nothing. You have brought the urgent procedure, once again, a draft 'gut' bill. Your urgent bill has all of it. Articles on sport, articles on the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Tourism, which you have withdrawn, and the Ministry of Interior. The urgency of the matter is to vote on the Anti-Dumping Regulation to bring us into line with the WADA data. Let me remind you that Greece has been aware of its obligation to comply with and the deadlines to participate in the Rio Olympics since July 2014. Did the government know about it, or did you pay attention, and did you remember it in the middle of rabbits and fishes on Monday? Ladies and gentlemen, the handling and procedure chosen by the government to follow, if anything, is a success for Parliament. You brought in the emergency bill procedure, which until the withdrawal of the articles of the Ministry of Tourism had seventy-four articles to discuss. The bill has, in your favourite tactics, other than anti-doping provisions, a body of other unrelated provisions, without any suspicion of urgency. If we did not have the intervention of the Vice-President in the Conference of Presidents, neither could the bodies express their opinion. No matter how good it is for us to accept changes - which I am not saying, some of them may be in the right direction - your tactics leave no room. Obviously, you do not assess the parliamentary procedures and with the miserable comfort of the majority you have, you think that the bill will be passed anyway. Well, your arrogance is good, but there's little surprises in life. In this case, he has denounced you as a Member. What did he say? He said that “the tactics of Mr. Kontonis exposes the Government”, that “on November 15, 2013, WADA approved the Antidopting Code”, that “on August 1, 2014, the text was officially translated into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs”. 'We know for the whole fourteen months.' I don't have to add anything else. They're all over you now. Once again, as you usually do, you leave things in their fate, with nothing to do, and you come to and one, feeling sick, chasing the deadlines. I would remind you that in recent years the House has been discussing only sanctions and harmonisations of directives. Unfortunately, you're doing this everywhere. I tend to believe that this practice is how SYRIZA understands the concept of strategic planning. That's how you dealt with the multi-faceted negotiation. That's how you deal with the evaluation. You're doing the same in the refugee. But this year's year is Olympic year, and these loose ends are your Ministry's first priority. Let's go to the bill now. The bill is divided into two parts. The first part is the regulation on harmonisation with the new Antidoping Code. This is in itself an incomplete bill that, despite your obstructions and delays, would not find any of us opposite. Much less when it is a prerequisite for Greece's participation in the Olympiad of Rio. The second part of the bill is what I say 'bug'. He's got everything. Conceptually and organisationally could be divided into two parts. The first is described an informal regulation - reordering address, in substance - of the Ministry of Sports and Culture. It's Articles 49-65. The rest is an unconscious provision, with 'voting' the most recently adopted provisions, the abolition of committees and the setting-up of other committees - you have many to take care of - a piece of legislation. You seem to understand the right legalization. You're stunning us. Shortly since the Ministry of Culture, a short time after the Ministry of Tourism, you withdrew it, and for finalizing a provision of the Ministry of Interior, which makes a change to the recently adopted law of Mr. Vernardakis, Law No.4369/2016. Article 67 is the script of the SYRIZA legislation. He had power - if he got there! - February 27th. It is "vote" today, nineteen days ago. The ones to whom it relates have obviously been free to rejoice. These "finals" arrived at the source and water won't drink. I will choose to refer to a number of articles in Part II of the bill. Part I, i.e. Articles 1-23, I believe that it is the Greek Parliament's duty to vote for them so that Greek athletes have equal participation in the Rio Olympics. Article 24, ‘Creating a register of entities in the General Secretariat of Sports’. It's a positive attempt to record. But, as almost all the bodies present and spoken to the committee today, the information requested is much and in practice a sport club will be unable to cope with it. Most of the data referred to in Article hypothetically need to be available at the General Secretariat of Sports or may also request them. So the issue is not there, but the fact that there is no architecture and a strategy. Do we want a SPORTSnet, something similar to TAXISnet, to electronic tax statements, etc., which will reduce bureaucracy and inspire another communication from the General Secretariat of Sports with sports operators? However, the question is simple: how much will bureaucracy be reduced? How short will association sports recognition procedures be shortened? Article 25, ‘autonomous access, residence and departure of persons with disabilities’. In principle, we agree. However, we go from extensions, Minister, and especially you were the one who promised that there would be no extensions (fucking card, etc.).). You are also referring to a ministerial decision. Why not be generalized in all categories and all sports? Article 26, ‘Change membership of the National Stage Management Committee’. This is a change of administration and, in fact, legislation. We do not understand the "if possible" in the bill for the professor of physical education. What is the government's position? To participate in the administration of at least one Physician's instruction teacher? It's only in Kautazolia? Isn't that necessary to the others? Article 27, ‘Composition of a Standing Committee on Violence’. You do not mention in the article who defines the four scientists of unknown prestige. The Minister responsible for sport is most likely. We disagree on the continuing committee to deal with violence. This is because it will continue to be a state-owned press controlled by the Minister of State, set up by the General Secretariat of Sports. We propose that it be a committee in the standards of independent authorities, although we know how much you despise them. Article 29, 'Repeal of a National Sport Planning Council', obviously everything that we do not control, we repeal it. And do not rush to tell me that it has been institutionalised since 1999 and has never been formed and operated. We know that and it is the responsibility of all the Ministers for Sport to date. It is hypocrisy, however, to say in the explanatory statement that he did not fulfil his purpose. The ASS is an institution that can act as an independent body for the Minister of Sports to draw up national sports planning. Not only must it be abolished, but it must be institutionalised as a type of independent authority, with an upgraded role and composition. Article 30 of the International Sports Committee is the epic of the definition of the Government's Committee on International Sport Relations. Aren't there sports bodies represented? Qualifications of members or properties? In the previous article, you are abolishing the ESS and here you are setting up a new committee and talking about national sports policy. Time is pushing. Article 41, ‘Technology’. Despite the fact that there was information in the committee and despite the effort made by the President of the Archbishop Federation to convince you, you insist and do not give a solution to the matter. Because, while in paragraph 1, it appears that a problem that was actually a year old, that is, declassification of the arc as a weapon, it goes on to be resolved, it is annulled in paragraph 2 under the conditions you have set. What is the reason for the terms, conditions, the procedure for granting licences, etc. to be made by ministerial decision and not to be determined by the law itself? Article 43. It's the many-advertised online ticket by the government, which goes from deferral to deferral. He had to start from 2015 and is now moving for the 2016-2017 season. That's how you're doing, you're in a hurry. You announce great plans...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u33	No, it's true, Mrs. Kefalidou. The online ticket is valid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u34	You'll talk later, Minister. And then you see you can't keep your time. This is not sloppy and lightness. Article 44. Here you amend No.4326/2015 “Emergency measures to tackle violence”. It was so urgent that you forgot the coaches of the award-winning athletes in racing discrimination. The way you bring the bills to night and someone you'll have forgotten. Article 45. How many times will the House have to vote to settle the FOD? In every bill that comes, there is also a regulation for the employees of the IPO. Article 4 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the It is impressive that you have not accepted to date - as we have been told - the workers of your Ministry to discuss with them either the provisions you bring, or their problems. From Article 49 to Article 65 there is a body of arrangements, address reorders, creation of new mergers, and your employees do not know what dawns them. It's totally part of what you're doing and they don't lead anywhere. I want to say a word about Article 67. It is his well-known tactics to "vote" and we would be very pleased if reality would ratify the good intentions of the government. This bill had all the qualifications to form a sample of the parties' consensus. It is a pity that the government's practices are dynamizing all such opportunities. Minister, although your Government is self-advertising itself for its determination to leave behind the pathogens of the past, with the tactics that follow in the way it brings out the draft laws, the only determination that emerges is the complete, continuous and uninterrupted depreciation of Parliament and its procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Giokas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we were informed by the Ministry the other day that this bill is to be tabled and that it is to be voted immediately under the urgency procedure, we have held a stand, which will make it easier to harmonise Greek legislation quickly with the World Antidopting Code and given that there may be sanctions and exclusions of Greek athletes from international organisations. Of course, we have said yesterday to the committee that this consensus on our part concerns the first twenty-one or two articles of the bill, which deal with the harmonisation of Greek legislation, and not with the remaining fifty articles of the bill, which were irrelevant, which were not urgent and should be withdrawn and come with another procedure. In fact, in committee yesterday, the Minister confessed. In other words, it admitted that we did not intend to bring this bill under the urgency procedure, but we were forced by the pressure of the dates and deadlines set by WADA. In the second part of the fifty articles, however, there was no deadline and no date on the WADA side. What, then, is the reason for these articles coming under the urgency procedure? Will someone say: But well, are these articles so serious that they should come in accordance with the normal procedure and have a detailed discussion and have you done it a great deal? First of all, the regulation does not distinguish depending on the importance of the provisions, nor does it provide that there may be a shorter procedure depending on whether an issue is less or more important. It provides for specific things. And we say this because there has been a systematic attempt at arbitrary and unacceptable criteria for the procedures in recent years. They say the SYRIZA MPs: they have been consulted. It was a month in consultation. So there was no surprise, so there is no question, so the urgent procedure is justified. You're saying it's technical. Even these technical issues which the bill raises relate to political issues, which we consider to be a substantial analytic debate and not because we believe or have any illusion that this debate on its own would provide a solution to these problems. We know that you are not going to solve the serious problems that exist in the field of sport. And you are not going to give a solution, because you, too, are actually serving with your policy this rotten, we say, structure of commercial sport. But there must be a debate, because both the people and the fan world must be, as much as possible, informed of all these problems, about the causes that create them and there to turn their attention and their claim and go by saying. So behind these so-called issues of procedure, on which the government and the government are accountable, there is also a political issue regarding the area of sport. What is this political issue? The government has the naive - at least the naive - to believe that by some provisions, the institutional process will solve very serious economic, political issues in the field of sport, which are about to do with the fact that sport, commercial sport, they act, they conflict, they compete, they compete, they compete, great business interests and that is where all the suffering comes from either violence or corruption, scandals, doping, which we are debating today and is part of the bill, and it goes by saying. One thing that proves this: a few months ago the government passed a bill on emergency measures to combat violence in the field of sport. In fact, most of these were voted on by us. If I remember correctly, Minister, the only article in which we had voted'residents' in this bill was the article for the judges in the disciplinary bodies of the OSH and after the double retreat that you made, under the threats of UEFA,, the ordinary judges should finally be chosen, but chosen by the OSH. But we also voted on the provisions on the ticket and the provisions on cameras and the tightening up of penalties, without any illusion that something would change. This year's ending. We're in March. In two months, it's over. Did the problems of violence be tackled? Has anything been handled? Has there been a better situation with regard to the phenomenon of violence in the field of sport? Even a national organization was interrupted because of the incident. I'm not going to the debate on whether it was interrupted well or badly. Let's just say he was nicely interrupted. I'm referring to the Cup. But there is a situation. Who's that? That despite the stricter penalties, the measures, the measures, the ones, the ones, the roots of the problem were not dealt with. And as long as the government does not conflict - and it does not conflict - with the business interests which are broken, which act, which compete in the field of sport, it is not forever to deal with all these problems in the field of sport. In the bill, in relation to the part concerning the harmonisation of Greek legislation, we have no objection to these provisions being voted on in order to be able to take account of the dates and deadlines laid down by WADA. Nevertheless, we would like to point out for those who consider such codes to be a panacea or such procedures that it is not the phenomenon of doping to fight, whatever codes WADA introduces, whatever stricter penalties exist, whatever harmonisations are made in Greek law, because - we will do so again - doping is a genuine child - not an illusion, but a genuine child - commercial sport, business, sponsors' sport, record records and go and say. This is also evidenced by the latest incidents in the field of sport, such as athletes discovered after a decade that they have been documented on the basis of frozen samples or the phenomenon that we had recently with the Russian tennisist, which, over the past few years, received a substance in all legal terms at the time on the basis of the WADA standards, which was actually part of the process of illegality, because obviously a more advanced one has emerged. There are also competitions and pharmaceuticals and so on. Today, this tennis lady is considered to be documented on the basis of the new data that was not available until some time ago. This crazer is in the field of commercial sport. Since Mr Mavrota and the Minister said yesterday that these phenomena existed in the countries of socialism, I would like to say a few words. From one point to the next, there were also distortions in these countries under the pressure of competition with the capitalist countries and, above all, because of one point, there were incorrect directions first and foremost in the field of the economy which have also worked in other areas of social life, the attitude of athletes and so on. There were, therefore, two differences, however, Minister. The first difference is that these incidents were overwhelmingly individual and limited compared to the thousands of athletes who were distinguished and secondly - and most importantly - these distortions cannot hide a reality that in these countries physical education and sport from the youngest age to the deepest ages was a right rather than a commodity, which was given free of charge to all. So you compare this situation with the situation in Greece today, where, in order for a family to go to sport somewhere, it must give at least fifteen euros, perhaps even more, for it to be written in a club. Compare this situation with the fact that the educational process today provides for two hours of physical education this week, and indeed as a parlor, with teachers who may not be Physical Education Teachers. Compare the fact that today children in our country are champions of musculoskeletal problems and other conditions, at the same time as the Ministry has been working for a month on whether the Presidents of Panathinaikos, Olympiacos, AEK and PAOK will meet. This is the problem of sport in Greece, if the four large clubs meet, as if they met, the problem of violence and all other issues in the football field will be solved. A second issue we wanted to raise. Even if we accept that the WADA code is complete, it is complete, there is an issue concerning the functioning of the ESRB. Let us recall that in recent years, under the responsibility of previous governments, of course, the functioning of the ESRB was substantially interrupted. We asked the Minister yesterday in committee what the situation is at the moment. He told us that the funds were increased. Deal. What's the status? How many checks have been carried out lately, how many events? There are also data publications here which show that the controls carried out are overwhelmingly few, and we cannot at least say that there is effective preventive control in the doping area. So, beyond the code, beyond the penalties, beyond the procedures, there is an issue relating to the means, staff, the infrastructure available to an operator, in order to do his job properly and to function as it should. In relation to the other articles in Part II of the bill, I will refer quickly. As far as Article 24 is concerned, for the creation of a Register of Bodies of the General Secretariat of Sports, we have no objection to giving a number of figures on federations, unions, members of the boards of directors, so that there can be a check on how the State grant is distributed and gone by saying. Nevertheless - and I say this again - in some cases the information requested is too much, particularly as far as the unions are concerned. Do you know what the situation is today in the unions? A neighborhood club has a coach who can have three or four sections, and a man who, with his charity and his sacrifice, runs for everything. Can they all gather the AMCAs, the AMMs for how many people are athletic, what are they playing at, and what are they going to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u37	They'll do it once.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u38	We are afraid - and I wish to disprove - that this article will become the vehicle, it will be used as a pretext and it will be exploited to further cut already the prerogatives of federations and unions. I'll give you an example. It says in the article 'to report unions if they have other resources or sources'. Of course, unions should be asked to state whether they have any other resources or sources. And we're talking about sponsorships, and it goes on to say. The question, however, is to stop this. Today, there are unions forced by sub-funding to resort to sponsors, to put in exchange for those who are sporting. The question is to increase the state grant and not to create relationships between dependency or other kinds of relationships with donors and so on. Who are forced to resort to a series of unions, particularly border unions, the neighborhood and so on. That is the main problem. In this we should point out that legal procedures and control possibilities existed, exist and need to be activated, regardless of whether they have been activated over the past period. However, at the moment the situation with sub-financing in the field of sport has led federations and unions to not being able to cover their operating costs in any way, not even to pay their staff. They told you today and workers in the federations: rotating work, unpaid workers. One way - if you want - for there to be control is money relating to the payroll of employees in sports federations going directly from the state budget and not through the federations, which can make any use. Other aspects that may be controlled - and we told you last time - in the previous bill - are PAE, OEM, anonymous companies to leave the Ministry. They're anonymous corporations, they're business. They should go to the Ministry of Development and that's where every check is made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u39	They're controlled by the former Ministry of Trade...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u40	Article 38 refers to the non-violent nature of the ESRB, the Committee on Professional Sports and so on. I accept the good intentions you have, Minister, and that at the moment even threats exist to members of these bodies in order not to carry out controls. We told you yesterday, however, that the article, as it is formulated, can also be used from the back. And after all we do not know nor can anyone say whether in this article all the circuits that exist will stop threatening, blackmailing and so on. For Articles 42 and 43, which concern an amendment of your own rules, we talked about it in committee yesterday. I don't want to repeat it. We do not agree on the reasons we mentioned yesterday. I don't want to expand. I'm ending up with this. In Article 48, as far as coach schools are concerned, it is a positive step. It's half, but, Minister. I'll tell you why. It is right that what you put on the state title does not need anything else in order to practice a coach's profession. But he's exclusive, too? What do I mean? That there will continue to be all these schools, the various schools set up by the various federations and trade and business, so that the other one with a two-week rapid course will get a coach license. Of course, you do well and do not put the extra certification on the TECA graduates, for example, but these schools will continue to operate as companies in practice and create a specific situation in the field of coaches. We say: 'State title alone' in order for the other person to have the right to practice the coach's profession. If you want, here we can see some schools for athletes completing their careers, but again under the responsibility of TEFA and the state that will grant such titles. I was paralyzing them, that is, the schools will continue to operate. That's why we say it's a positive step, but it's a half. This step is not complete. Finally, for Articles 34, 35 and 71, where there are spaces to be given to legal persons, we want more explanations as to what they are concerned. The way it is printed is photographic provisions which, if the Ministry does not give more information on what it is concerned, we cannot vote on them. In principle, we are voting'residents' in the bill, for all these reasons. We will vote in favour of some articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. Mr Mavrotas, a special speaker of the party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Let me introductorys before entering the main theme of the bill. The doping, which we are talking about today, is, in my opinion, along with the illegal bet and violence, the main stains in sport today. But not to be fooled, doping will always be in front of the anti-doping. But this lane closes as long as the time passes. The net for scams of sport is becoming more and more dense, so it is hard to pass through it now. That is what the Antidopting World Organization, our well-known WADA, has made a great contribution to this. The rules and procedures it has standardised worldwide - through many reactions and difficulties, are the truth - have made a significant contribution. It is not just the rules and procedures for combating doping. Other actions, such as the use of information, often requiring a combination of activities, are needed. Here the Ministry should take initiatives, in cooperation with the prosecution authorities and customs authorities or other bodies, as is done abroad. We must note that it is not just the sport that has rules, for which we are voting today. There is also non-agonist sport, entertainment sport, gyms, where there the landscape is completely uncontrolled. We have brought this to the House through parliamentary scrutiny on a relevant question. That is why initiatives are needed both in the prevention, information, an institutional framework for the various formulations, but also in the repression, illegal trade and so on. But let us go back to sport and make a parallel with politics. An important blow against doping was, and is, the re-checking of samples, which has been introduced for about a decade. A banned substance that is not currently detected can be detected after years. We've seen it happen. In other words, it is something that causes many athletes to double-thinking and triple it before they go too far. Food for thought, therefore, in the light of the Review of the Constitution and the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers. Allow me for a minute to raise another issue, which I have heard quite a few times in here. The term ‘pharmacoplasty’ for doping is used. I said yesterday to the committee that the two concepts do not match. Pharmacopoeia may be considered to be taking an aspirin or vitamin C to stylize, but this is not doping. On the contrary, doping is blood transfusion, gene doping or beta inhibitors, things that do not fall under pharmacopoeia. The illegal pharmacopoeia is therefore a subset of doping and the term does not cover all aspects of doping. That is why I would recommend that we adopt the word "doping" in Greek as well, without prejudice to our language patriotism. We've borrowed the world with thousands of words. Let's put some water on our wine and let's take a hostage. Let us go to this particular issue and let me be quite detailed because of a prior involvement in this matter. I was a member of the ESRB for about seven years, from 2003 to 2009. The harmonisation we are voting on today results from the translation of the model rules, the modelrules, for the national anti-doping agencies, so that they are in line with the 2015 WADA World Anti-Doping Code. For this reason in the English text there are scriptures that are on a yellow background, which are compulsory to incorporate others that are on a sea background and are indicative. However, despite the corrections we received yesterday in the text - in the six pages with the legislative improvements that the Minister gave us - there are still several cases where English translation does not give the right meaning. That is why we have given a long list of a hundred and twenty-nine corrections so that the law we will be voting on with the WADA World Code is truly harmonized. Some, indeed, to which I shall refer next, are quite important and significantly alter the meaning, so that we have a mismatch between the original English text and the bill that we are voting on today. I should also like to raise the issue of the Greek anti-doping body. You may, Minister, have increased the subsidy from fifty thousand to two hundred thousand - and you are doing well - but, if it does not serve the scientific section, which is now empty, with people who know the subject, we will constantly have such phenomena. It is not enough, therefore, for ERCC officials or some members of the board of directors to be very friendly, but it requires full staff and its scientific department. I am now presenting myself, Minister, for a long time now, to the intended joint ministerial decision setting compensation, so that the samplers can be paid, something you should see. Also, let me stand on the EEC, the National Doping Combat Agency, which will replace the ESRB under the 2012 Act, which has not yet been implemented. In committee today, Mr Carras, the member of the board of the ESKAN, also said how important the establishment of this legal person of private law can be in the process of reforming the ESKAN and, in general, the fight against doping in Greece. For the mistakes that were in the Greek text I spoke yesterday and in the committee, we sent them with a memorandum. This may be the reason why some technical conditions are translated, which are not always easy to do by non-experts or the intervention of the Legal Committee in the final text. For example, in Article 6 of the bill we are voting on today, the target testing, which is the targeted control, namely the control of selected athletes in the anti-doping terminology, is attributed to 'age control'. No relationship, I mean. And the top one, which can put us in trouble if we don't change it, is that in the English text of the standard rules, in the modelrules, namely, in Article 4.3, which deals with the list of banned substances, says the English text, read: "...the classification of a substance as prohibited is final and shall not be subject to challenge by an animal or another person". The Greek translation we have in the bill is: "The classification of a substance as a banned substance is final and can be challenged by an athlete or a third person". This 'no' is missing, which is completely changing the meaning. We will put this before us, as a legislative improvement, so that there can be and I will now give it to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Mavrotas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the basis of the Greek law, Greek athletes could question whether a substance is on the list of banned substances or not. So that we do not have such problems, I propose that a provision should be introduced at the end of Chapter I in Article 22, which says that 'in the event of a divergence between the English original and the Greek translation takes precedence over the English text', which also exists in other European directives, and that we will have our head in peace. So if this harmonisation has so many mistakes in translation, I am afraid of what may be done in other more serious texts that are exchanged with partners or even with joint communiqués, which may go unnoticed. So we make sure that we have anti-doping in the struggles. The next issue we need to deal with is to make sure we have a fight. Because the example of the Greek Cup is a bad one - let us say it - an omen. But let's go to the other articles. In Article 23 on the deprivation of the prerogatives of the state, which concerns a position in the public, for those who have been found to make use of banned substances, we are glad to see that the Minister has accepted the amendment that we have proposed so that we do not burn the greens together with the dry ones, that is to say, that there are no distractions and redundancies for fleas, and that the two-year limit is in place, which makes a serious infringement. There are some other articles in the bill that is correct, because they resolve issues that had arisen and restore justice and equality, such as Article 28, Article 31 for permits to athletes of Paralympic Games, etc., financial reward for escorts to disabled athletes. Article 24 on the General Secretariat of Sports Agency Register, which has been mentioned, is a useful measure, in our view, but not on the suffocating margins that exist in the law. In other words, the two months, which will apply from the first application, we think it is a small space for amateurs who actually operate clubs - for sports clubs, I speak more - and we need to expand this two-month period. A question on Article 26, which has been revisited, concerning the Katanzoglio Stadium, is whether the terms of the legacy are fulfilled with this new provision which also emerged and one question is why it is interrupted before the end of its term of office. In Article 29 you repeal the National Sport Planning Council, which, as the Minister said yesterday, was not actually created. The issue for us is how it could work and play a role, because we believe it has a role to play in such a National Sport Planning Council, such as, for example, categorisation of sports, determining the criteria for grants to federations and sports clubs, as is the case in other countries. However, it would require a staffing of real knowledge of the subject and not "our own children". A Committee on International Relations, however, is set up in Article 30, where at the same time in the Secretariat-General there is a corresponding Directorate-General for International Relations. In Article 33, we agree that recruitment outside the AACC should be restricted, but we must also see the cases that Mr. Respectr mentioned in the hearing, in what is about the golden section between the AACC and where there is public money, and where there are other resources to be more flexible. And he mentioned the example of the SINGLE Marathon Road. Article 37 stipulates that the remuneration of coaches, who are civil servants, may also leave outside the framework laid down by Law No4354/2015. But here, we must be careful, because there is also Article 104(2) of the Constitution, which says that additional pay cannot exceed the wage. In Article 39, it restores an injustice, to which I myself was personally involved, because of my sporting past, to convince the sports leadership. It is about the European Games in Baku, some sports distinctions that had our athletes there. Because of a bureaucratic impediment, because the struggles were not specifically mentioned by this name in the law, although the international federations had them as Europeans, these children could not get the privileges. But this has been resolved by this article and we thank the Minister. In Article 40, for mobility, our label was accepted yesterday for the service councils. In Article 41, on archery, the previous speakers have also referred to the second paragraph, which actually raises the first one and we should also see that. In Article 43, which concerns electronic tickets and media, we note that last year we said that we were talking about the law in May - that the stages will not be ready and the Minister assured us that it would be, otherwise the groups behind closed doors would play, as was the provision of the law. None of this happened. So how are we sure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u43	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u44	We're talking about cameras and stuff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u45	There's on every one of the national football and basketball stadiums. We're bringing some improvements here and we're talking about the next time period.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u46	With the extensions we've given these things are true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u47	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u48	Since the cameras are working, why haven't they given anything to the facts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u49	Who told you that? Ask the Athens Police Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u50	Well, then it shouldn't have stopped the Cup.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u51	How are they not?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u52	You'll keep me a little time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u53	Fifty persons have been registered and identified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u54	Go on, Mr. Black.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u55	However, violence has not disappeared. On the contrary, the struggles have disappeared, as happened at the Greek Cup. In Articles 44 and 45, we are once again seeing the sloppyness and the practices of misdemeanour, the sewage-slapping, which we adopted some laws a few months ago and now we are going to change them. In Article 47, the question of relocation to TECAs for those who are not qualified is correct. However, it must be completed, Minister, and it must be said that the transfer will take place at the place closest to the place of introduction of the educational institution, which offers the relevant expertise, because the 'providing the skills in question' does not exist in the law and we must complete it. Articles 49 to 65 concerning the Agency of the Ministry of Culture are in the right direction, but they cannot come in urgent procedures. In conclusion, the bill of harmonisation - even at the last minute - of Greece with international anti-doping standards has a positive sign. It is very wrong, however, in the procedures with which it came to Parliament. The urgency could only apply to the first two articles, which are harmonisation, and the other articles could come under normal procedures next week. The government, however, has been taken over by an addiction in fast-track lawmaking and society by a mismatch against such practices, and we need to see that. As a Potami we tried to contribute to this effort, with the experience and knowledge we have on this subject, avoiding opposition corons. We are making calm criticism, constructive opposition, for a national purpose, which is to avoid a Grexit and the sports movement. I believe that the space of sport with so many problems and the success of its people, in adverse circumstances, does not require any political worries or arrogant behaviour. Sport was and is always the place of effort, worthyness, group spirit, difficult works and not easy words. And now that I'm thinking about it, it's probably politics that has more to learn from sport than politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Mavrota. Minister, what you could suggest to WADA and include in the bill on doping substances, that is, those that are biological substances that the body itself produces - and they are also androgens, erythropoietin - is, when the athlete starts his career, along with the other tests to have a level of determination of these substances. Why do you know what's going on? They go to races at altitude, which is low oxygen. They give erythropoietin to increase red blood cells, because they will have better performance. And there's a lot of hard to detect. But if you know where it starts, then this erythropoietin will appear to be exogenous, that is, it is not the organism. Because the other huge issue, particularly the big sports powers, is changing a ring and until the drug is released, they can't detect it. That's what no one can...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u57	That is why retroactiveness has entered, Mr President. If such substances are detected in the future, then the legal consequences come as if they had been arrested at the time of the struggle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u58	Deal, that's a matter of retrospectiveness. It's the other one, though. Because, you know, it's not just champions, it's even about amateur unions. I mean, competition promotes taking androgens, which, even if you find them, you can't prove if it's the organism. For example, red blood cells are from four to five million. One who has four million and one who has five million is normal. Nor does WADA provide for that, and of course could you put it in the bill. In other words, athletes, at least in terms of hormones and biological substances, when they start sport to know about what level they are. So, check them at any time if this level has been increased exogenously. It's a huge matter. If you can pass it, it would be good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u59	Mr President, may I have the floor to table some legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u60	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u61	First of all, I would like to say that it is very substantial what you have said. We must also look at them, but we must also take account of the international institutions. I think we should also look at the side you mentioned. Mr President, I would like to refer to some of the legislative improvements which I will be tabling, since we have also taken note of the conclusion of the Scientific Council of Parliament. We believe that it is the legislature's obligation to harmonise it with basic suggestions made by the Scientific Council and, where possible, incorporate them. In Article 2, the title is replaced by the following: In point (b) of paragraph 21 of Article 34 of Law No.2725/1999, as replaced by Article 23 of the draft law, the words ‘in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VI of Law No.3883/2010’ are replaced by ‘in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VI of Part One of Law No.3883/2010’, because this is where there was a typographic error in the number of the law. Paragraph 2 of Article 25 shall be recast as follows: ‘The existence and proper functioning of the said configuration and systems on a sporting establishment in which the match is to be held after the deadline laid down in paragraph 1 shall be a precondition for the issue of the licence provided for in Article 56A(9) of Law 2725/1999.’. The first subparagraph of Article 25(3) shall be replaced by the following: ‘Without the configuration of the sites, in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, confirmed by the relevant Urban Agency, the certificate referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 77A of Law 2725/1999 may not be issued.’; In Article 28, the title is replaced by the following: In the second paragraph of Article 33 after the words ‘the journalists’, the words ‘the carers’ shall be added. We were asked by the Greek Paralympic Committee. I think it is a fair and reasonable request and we incorporate it after the morning debate. The third paragraph of Article 33 shall be added as follows: ‘Under the provisions of the preceding subparagraph, federations having their own revenue exceed 50% of the annual regular grant of the General Secretariat of Sports’. It was also a request that emerged from the morning discussion to serve in this way events of great, global interest, such as the Marathon Road organized by the EGAS. The words ‘and the General Secretariat of Sports’ in the first paragraph of Article 36 shall be deleted. I referred to Rule 38 on the responsibilities of the Committee on Professional Sports of the Court of Auditors and of the ECHR. Although I referred to the fraudulent option, the beneficial provisions are applicable, they are applicable, in the event that one performs his duty, in his judgment, but that judgment of that sort may be incorrect - where there is a fraudulent option - it is obvious that this is not the case - but that there is no doubt in the explanatory memorandum to Article 38 after the word 'from their existing duty legislation' - it is added that 'when, of course, their opinion or act is in accordance with their real judgment and true conviction, even if they are incorrect and not, when they - opinion or practice - they are a product of fraudulent action'. It was also mentioned by the Scientific Council of Parliament, and I believe that any reservations have been expressed in an excessive, sometimes unfair way, in this draft law. I am making the legislative improvements and I would ask that they be distributed to colleagues. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u62	Thank you, Minister. I would ask that Members be given the legislative improvements tabled by the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured to the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", seventy-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-sixth-seventh-seventh-seventh-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-seventh-sixth-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-s-seventh-sth-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-seventh-sixth-sixth-seventh-sixth-seventh-seventh-seventh-sixth-st-sixth-sixth-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st- The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] After Mr Mavrotta the floor is given by the special speaker of the ANLL, Mr Kammenos. Here, Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a pleasant surprise for parliamentary customs and customs for me, as a new Member. I have seen from all the groups and especially colleagues who have taken the lead in sport - such as Anna Karamanlis, Giorgos Mavrotas and Mrs Aylonitos - collaborate in good faith and offer their knowledge to us, who have been less familiar with sport on many levels, whether in football or polo, and many other sports. I think it was a good example for all of us, for us to continue from now on, for there to be a consensus and for the experts to have the floor. And the government, Minister, and we - and we - are in the government and confronting the government at the moment - accept, as you have done, democratically and with open-minded proposals from experts without pride and without egoism. For the good of the health of Greek athletes, children and families is above the political egos of each party. I will be very brief because almost everything has been said. Not all Members need to say the same and repeat the same thing. The issue of antidoping is a very important issue for the Greek society, as for every society and every country. Let us remember that sport has been used as a diplomatic tool for many years, namely, it has exported diplomacy to many countries. Start, if you like, from the Eastern Bloc and also from the Western Bloc. This cold war competition brought this disease of drugs to sport and hurt the health of too many athletes, which we have seen many years later. And since they see us today and young people, who come from schools in Greece, it is good to see the harmony that the parties have today in this bill, because it is for the sake of their own health, their children and their families later. Doping is a scourge. Sport has too many problems. Especially in the last five to six years with the recession, due to the economic narrowness, there was no possibility of funds and grants being allocated to clubs. The unions are trying in very difficult circumstances. You know that from your families - but we too have children - how hard we could and can pay, so that children could participate in all federations, in all sports, in doing extra-school activities and engage in sport. However, there must be a noble talk and we must avoid any sacrifices of substances which harm our health, first of all, and offer nothing at the end of the day. Because, unfortunately, the results of medicines and substances, which help performance in the medium term, in the long term create enormous health problems and, of course, great grief and discomfort to our relevant ones. By the way, I would like to say that this bill corrects injustices, such as those in the European Championships in Bucku, Azerbaijan. It is pleasant to correct the injustices to these athletes. The issues of archery are very fair. I think the Minister is very positive in listening to them and giving the solutions that need to be found. The electronic tickets have entered everywhere. It remains to be implemented and continue to be implemented. It is the only security and it offers clarity to who enters the stadium, i.e. to identify the person who comes in, so that phenomena can be avoided and, if you like, hooliganism or violent or any other felony, which can bring material damage to the group, let alone the lives of people. As far as the ESKAN is concerned, the Council that controls samples for anti-doping, fortunately, the Minister has found and made the funds so that this year we have 200,000 euros, which can help control and sampling in all sports, as far as we can. Of course, as far as we've been informed by experts, we have seen that there is no staff. We must slowly find the staff, make checks and pay the staff. Because if you don't have any control, the laws are very good, but you have to have the tools and control the athletes, so there's a result. Of course, the increase in penalties is very important. I will agree with friends that knowledge from the opinions and suggestions of the bodies we have heard today is valuable. We have seen examples from the SINGLE and for the marathons. All sports offered special knowledge to us. We, as Independent Greeks, are in favour of being harmonious and being normal both in law and in health for the whole population. So we are voting in favour of the bill at first, and we are voting in favour of the articles. We don't have any disagreement. Society should be careful because in the crisis there are phenomena of illicit trade in medicines via drugs or the Internet. I said it in my report next time. I will repeat it in plenary today. The state as a whole must make a great effort to control it. It is not the responsibility of the honourable Minister, but it is the responsibility of the entire government to control through the EOF, the General Chemistry of the State, all the components of all preparations circulating in Greece and also to control e-commerce. Orders from abroad are completely uncontrollable. Everyone can order anything from any part of the world. I do not honestly know - we will have to check with the Minister responsible at some point - whether there is any controls on imports into the customs offices of all medicines and preparations which enter the Greek territory. To preserve the Greek citizen from a possible illness and serious damage to his health and, of course, not to escape any revenue from the Greek State which so much needs them. In addition, our society, our Parliament and this government - and every government - must invest in education, both school athletes and trainers. He needs education and leaders, he needs good trainers and good coaches, who inspire children to set the good example, both in school breaks and in post-school activity. Only the good example, with knowledge. To carry in a good and proper way, without jeopardizing and scaring children. On the right track. As we older people, who have been educated by parents, helped us to be good people, so athletes must be helped today, which is a crisis, a lack of money, a lack of motivation many times, misery, stress, melancholy, and the coach and the athlete. A way out is never the use of illegal substance for a brief euphoria, a short victory. We must defeat within us the need to lead the wrong way. To have noble talk and to fight equally with all our fellow worshippers, and let the best one win. I hope the laurel is won by Greek athletes. Every Greek government bet on the health of its population. I wish - and I will conclude my speech, as I started it - that today's example of sport as a bill and the cooperation of all the parties, which, with so much knowledge, shared in parallel and vertically at all levels and across the parties, be a good example for the future and for subsequent bills. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. It's a shame the kids left. In what Mr Kammenos said, I would like to add that over-sporting, which has proved to cause sudden deaths of more than double the number of non-sporters or sportsmen normally. And in many, beyond the organic conditions, it's due to doping. And this should go further into society and active athletes after the sports season. It is, in other words, demonstrated statistics and what I am saying is internationally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u65	As doctors, with great experience, you must set an example and be at risk to everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u66	They keep writing, don't they? Because you said, however, about the laurel, unfortunately there is the other one, which is not laurel. But this has to go to society, not to the House. The special speaker of the Association of Centres, Mr. Megalumustakas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u67	Good evening. I would like to start by saying that the explanations of the State Secretary for Sport in yesterday's committee, unfortunately, did not convince us. I mean an emergency. Harmonization with global standards could have been done much earlier and better care could have been taken to ensure that there is sufficient time to consider the matter. A translation needed nothing else. Not to arrive at about five and be in danger of being excluded from Rio's struggles. I think that is unacceptable. Once again - in the short time that I am a Member - I see a bill in the form of urgency. The urgency is now your parliamentary practice, it has lost its meaning and you are bringing in a large number of urgent legislation, when this is why you and your delays are responsible for this urgent matter. So this unacceptable blockage in all sectors can be attributed to all ministries in two reasons: Firstly, you might assume that you are delaying, because of the confusion of ideologies between you - coexistence - and reluctance. If that is the case, then, you are criminally responsible - I could say - and I think you will be punished by the voters who have trusted you, namely those who told them that there is another route within Europe, without reforms, without abolishing the client state. Unfortunately you have fooled them, and that is why you will, of course, be punished. There is also the other possibility of delaying because of a lack of knowledge. In other words, no matter how good the Minister is, no matter how good he is, if he is not the technocrat, he cannot solve serious problems in time. I believe that the most important criterion for the choice of a minister is to know his job, to have a service on the subject, to have a deeper knowledge of the place and to be the best in his industry. If he does not have sufficient knowledge of the specific subject he is taking, what can he do with political training? It's like saying that because you know how to eat, you know, and cook. So with such attitudes and delays there will be, due to lack of knowledge of the subject and various accidents in management. We've already seen enough and if you keep up with this pace, we'll see more in the future. Now, with regard to the bill on the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the new Antidopting Code of the World Organisation, we must say that it is in the right direction. We need to harmonize ourselves. However, since politicians also have an educational role, I must make it clear to the people who are watching. In this bill we are trying to shield sport from the invasion of unfair practices. In other words, this is a moral issue, as all athletes must start from the same starting point, whatever sport they do. The World Organisation for the Combating of Doping now keeps a list of permitted and banned substances. In short, pharmaceuticals - chemistry - have entered sport. There are, as we have said, permitted and banned substances and some in the field of sport care for a step forward from the audit services and their job is to study substances at a chemical, biological and technical level, which have not been temporarily certified by the Antidopting World Organisation. But fortunately, scientific progress has now anticipated some methods of preventing this phenomenon, such as long-term storage of athletes' samples. Thus, in future, banned substances can be detected, which were previously or when the sample was taken were not on the list of banned substances. It is good that all these procedures are in the hands of Greek legislation, because we want to be part of the civilised world. In addition to sport, however, we must take immediate account of a scourge - I could say - which affects our society, as anyone who can find banned drugs even in gyms. Basically there is the main supplying area, even young. There must be a direct reaction to this problem. That is why we are proposing that there should be proper information in schools from a very early date, because many children are being killed by some academics, who are forged by the ideal body, built in a very easy way, and that is not something we should promote. And one more thing we need to take into account is that all federations get help for their athletes. As part of legality, of course. There is a discussion between medical and training teams, see what the needs are and then get the appropriate helps that are needed to get appropriate training. Over the past few years, too many have provided them from abroad, either on the Internet or through imports. In recent years, however, the groups have had to look for and address only abroad and countries such as China. Because of bad control and bad organisation - and most of all not intentionally - there is a risk that some substances will be consumed which are not allowed. And we've heard that from many of our athletes. That is why we propose that the Ministry of Sports cooperate and set up a body together with the Ministry of Health and the University of Athens or with any other university it prefers, so that they have their own control and responsibility, and that our federations provide appropriate aid for athletes, without any fear of consuming a banned substance. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The organization will play a role in this effort to protect our athletes and especially the new generation, to nurture athletes, who will fight with noble talk. However, there are some involvement in these first twenty-two articles, as we have heard in today's committee with the bodies. As the NCA has informed us, it cannot accept under any circumstances accept the competence of the ETUC and ASEAD institutions in the trial of doping cases involving football. More specifically than they have told us, it is based on Article 65 of the Statute of the NCA, which states that only the judicial bodies of the NCA can impose disciplinary measures. As you can see, this is a fundamental disagreement and we would like you to make us know how to resolve the issue. Another point on the bill, which is confusing, is that the ESRB has a double role. He's also a judge. We see that the WADA, precisely for this very reason, worldwide, retains for itself the right of the party and not the right of the judge, because it is the body that defines the rules. Here, in other words, we have confusion of legislative, executive and judicial authority. You need to see it with great care. Now regarding the second part of the bill, we believe that it should have been discussed separately with the normal procedure, so that we can have better results in our legislative work. I have seen in the committees that most of the legislative improvements were made by Articles 23 et seq. This clearly states your curiosity. You weren't ready to bring it. Otherwise, there would be no such corrections. As I have also seen from the point of view of Members and the questions to my colleagues were mainly about these articles, from 23 onwards. Furthermore, something that indicates your perplexity is your claim in the morning that systemisation is now taking place, along with the committee. I heard bodies that you corrected them because they were not properly informed. They came to inform us, but at the very short time, which you gave them, they did not get enough to be informed and properly trained so that we too would have the right information. You should explain to us why you are abolishing the National Sport Planning Council by Article 29. I heard you in the committee saying that so many words didn't work...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u68	No, it wasn't working. It wasn't established.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u69	It wasn't set up, yeah. It wasn't working. But there was a regulation. There should be...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u70	We're not dismantling the board. We're abolishing the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u71	Good. You should put it into effect, in our view. He is an important body with important responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u72	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u73	I read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u74	Since it never worked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u75	Do not engage in dialogue, Minister, if possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u76	Neither the committee you want to set up with Article 30 has worked, but we believe it will help.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u77	It is provided for in this law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u78	Hello?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u79	Minister, in your place these.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u80	Yeah, good. I've seen that he could solve serious issues. Let's say, she's in charge of sports planning. If it were to function, that is, if you had put it into operation and had been set up, we might at this time have discussed the article earlier and not in the form of urgency. As he is also responsible for taking on international events. We see that almost all - the Olympic facilities are falling apart. Remove this committee, see how we go forward. What I see, with its abolition, is that you want to maintain all your powers to you, to the Ministry. As you would like to do with Article 30, in which it is appropriate to set up this committee, which will manage international issues relating to sport. We simply see that all the members of the Bureau are appointed by you. There's more to it than that. We cannot see it more clearly. Also, a very serious issue is this electronic nominal ticket, which is good and will help to combat violence. Families and children - you know that better than us, you see - they're afraid to go to the field and every Sunday we see on the streets unfolding war scenes, unfortunately. Rule 38 shows responsibilities as the President and Members cannot be blamed for the actions they have taken. And who's going to take responsibility? I can't understand it. Article 41, which deals with declassifying the sporting arch as a weapon, moves in the right direction. However, as colleagues have said, it does not give a definitive solution. Article 24 on the creation of a register of bodies needs to be better examined. As you know, there is neither secretarial support nor computerisation and the amount of work you ask them to do and the information they need to give is increased. So either you should ask for some less evidence or strengthen them, either with additional staff or with some equipment that will help in this work. After all, this has become clear from the institutions. The other problem, which is solved by Article 25, is in the right direction. It is a common place in world practice that all public spaces, not just must be accessible but also follow common design standards. These to architects and engineers are known as "universal design", "common design model" and mean that if we make an area accessible to people with disabilities, then we make it better for all people, whether they have disability problems or not. For example, there's no reason next to stairs to have ramps on an entrance. There's no need to have the stairs for normal ramps and ramps for unreal. These have been proven in international literature as additional sources of social racism. Only the ramp or a rolling runway is the right solution that will improve everyone's lives. We should be informed of the conquests of the Western world and apply them to the new political reality. I would point out again that the adoption of international standards is self-evident and we must apply them and follow them in any case. We must, however, stop being the poor relatives of Europe. Let the Prime Minister finally stop thinking that he is the president of a non-governmental organization or of a social union. We don't want charity. What we want is effective management. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. We must stop seeing Europe as the sidelines of the Western world. We deserve an international assessment. Europe is Greece. We mustn't humiliate her anymore. In conclusion, I would like to say that we have a positive view of the bill in principle. In the vote on the articles we will object. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr Megalustakas from the Centro Association. We're entering the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u82	Mr. President, when will the Minister speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u83	The Minister stated his desire to speak and then take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u84	Informally, I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u85	Parliamentary representatives will also speak and I will reply in total.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u86	Okay, good. The list of speakers will go ahead. Then the Parliamentary Representatives will speak. Whenever the Minister wants, he'll talk. Mr. George Psychogios from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, sport is clearly one of the top activities, both for physical health and for the culture of the human spirit. Having served amateur sport for years, I am well aware of the importance he has in a person's physical fitness, as well as in the essential values he can inflame, that of noble speech, as well as of collectiveness and groupity. Nevertheless, in recent years sport and especially the sporting sector have suffered an unprecedented trade, which has largely removed it from the principles that it should defend. The most extreme appearance of this trade is the pharmacization of athletes, commonly known as "doping". More and more young people are falling into the trap of the use of substances to increase their physical abilities and strengths. Great names of sport, but also unknown everyday athletes have destroyed their careers, but mostly their lives in the altar of indifferent competition and profit. For these reasons, it is more than ever necessary to establish an integrated legislative framework against pharmacology, which will effectively shield the sport sector from such phenomena in the future. The harmonisation of national legislation with WADA's new Anti-Doping Code is an essential prerequisite for our country's participation in the 2016 Olympic Games, which, according to the State Secretary responsible, has been known to the previous governments since 2013. But we have come here to institutionalise it. In addition, however, it is also a necessary prerequisite for the policy which the government wishes to develop in defending sport, which is another social asset for us. Key innovations in the new WADA code are the stricter disciplinary penalties for offenders, the extension of their exclusions and the automatic cancellation of all their performance and privileges, so as to minimise doping cases as fully as possible. The regulation introduced by Article 12 of this bill is also very important, since for the first time in Greek legislation sanctions are provided for against sports federations. The new code therefore attempts to bring all the players involved in sport before their responsibilities. Apart from the new Antidopting Code, however, other very basic arrangements are proposed with this draft law, which should be supported and supported by other political forces and which would in fact help us to have more time to highlight the difference and innovation that we are introducing. Article 24 provides for the recording of all sports actors in the Electronic Register of the General Secretariat of Sports, in order to ensure that their needs are monitored, which is essential, but also fair and proportionate funding for clubs and federations. Articles 25 and 32 provide for arrangements for small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular Article 25, providing for the uninterrupted access of small and medium-sized enterprises to sports spaces - a consistent request by the associations of small and medium-sized enterprises and Corinthia and all-Greeks - but also Article 32. Article 27 broadens the composition and enhances the effectiveness of the IAEA, i.e. the Standing Committee on the Management of Violence, with the participation of a representative of the WEU. On that it was good that the New Democracy at least saw the importance of this participation and made a proposal. The role of the IAEA is very important and this is also demonstrated in this year's time and season, but it will be better demonstrated by these arrangements. Articles 28 and 47 address key issues of introduction to the higher education of distinguished athletes. In particular, Article 28 regulates the question of distinguished athletes in the games, participating homogenous and foreign athletes, while Article 47 provides for a right of relocation to the respective place closest to the place where the sports activity is conducted, an educational institution for the athlete. There are also a number of articles which achieve the administrative restructuring of critical services of the General Secretariat of Sports. These provisions upgrade the functioning of the services and make it possible to achieve its strategic objectives effectively. To say a small example, through this strengthening and upgrading of services, I believe that we will be able to broaden and operate programmes, which have for many years been inappropriate for many years, such as the coach's programme in the legal persons governed by public law of the municipalities, which has returned, as well as the financing of events under the auspices of the municipalities through unions. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, the government is once again taking an important step towards protecting and modernising the sport sector, but it is also in line with European data. He proposes once again the man, his needs and his rights to the interests of interoperable and corruption, who have managed to spread their tentacles to the sporting space as well. It is a given that the previous governments have never conflicted with these interests. And that's just our role here, to tear them out one - one. Every day, both the Ministry of Culture and Sport and other ministries, and we personally are fighting a difficult and daily battle. On this basis we are waiting immediately, Minister, and the new legislative initiative of the Ministry of Sports with sport law, so as to put a final end to the immunity and evil texts that we have all experienced within the court as athletes, but also as fans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Psychoyo. We continue with Mr. Theodoros Fortsakis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the draft law, which essentially concerns the incorporation and implementation of the WADA antidote. We know that already in 2006, Law 3516 contained in an annex a list of banned substances, which, however, was a list in 2003, was revised in 2009 and we are now facing new elements, since we have changes that have taken place in 2013 and 2015. It is therefore legitimate to have a debate today on the incorporation of these elements into the law. But, Minister, I will also tell you, as many of the previous speakers have said, that the procedure followed is a process which, unfortunately, degrades Parliament. It essentially degrades it for two reasons: Firstly, the first part, which, of course, refers to the provisions to which I referred, in anti-doping, is legitimate to come. At the bottom, let this come on its own as an urgency, although in my view it is not for the Ministry that it is so late to be interested in the matter, and in any case it is not justified that the anti-dote bill has not been produced in time. In order to be productive, however, it should have been done in accordance with the procedure of the codes. You know that the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament contain special rules for the adoption of codes. The codes are a whole and it is very difficult for someone to intervene in a system of rules of law and regulations in order to contribute something essential if there has not been any preparation of a legislative committee. Otherwise, all this discussion, which is being held here, is for the sight. All the rest are issues which should have been the subject of thorough discussion and consultation. Unfortunately, that did not happen. Secondly, I fear that the reason why the urgency is being used is to justify the omission of the debate on the others, which - unfortunately - have not only been the subject of consultation and discussion, but have not even been the subject of any thought, in order to incorporate them into a broader understanding of the problems we have in sport today. I would not just like to make criticisms. I would also like to make a few proposals. The conclusion from my criticism is that urgent procedure is unjustified, at least for half of the bill, as seventy pages concern anti-doping and fifty more of the 'differences'. There is also a lack of a comprehensive view and a lack of care in dealing with it. What can we do? The latest events at the sports teams' meeting showed that problems in sport are not solved by arbitrary ministerial interventions but by institutional areas, which should have our experience as a whole, especially after the implementation of the n. In the light of the amendments, which have not solved the problems, neither the violence in the lands nor the corruption nor the other negative phenomena in sporting activity. Moreover, this is fully confirmed, since 2015's amendments to sport, as had also been the case with the Law since 2014 and before, certify the inability of the management to intervene effectively and radically in order to reorganise and reform or otherwise to achieve the desired award of sport, in particular professional sport. So here we have a real problem. I would remind you that Article 16(9) of the Constitution requires the state to intervene in what is alleged and to take care of matters of professional sport, especially when cases of selective application of the regulations and provisions of the Disciplinary Code for the conduct of the games are detected. And it will really be desirable for the state to be able to undertake a systematic effort to control the avoidance of distortion of competition. The inability to control is, in fact, proven to be the main cause of behaviour of violence in the agnostic areas, which we all know recently. This violence imposes severe penalties on the UAE and then strengthens the wider social climate. Professional sport requires the separation of the presence of the sport event and the application of sports rules by the sports federation concerned in relation to everything else. Indeed, what are the others? The others are the ones that must be autonomously regulated by the legislator, namely, from this House, with a view to healthy competition and a healthy economic benefit for anonymous sports companies. In order to be able to do so, the administrative authority must be independent, which will appoint an ad hoc body to draw the arbitrators of the struggle by means of a special list, together with the proposals made by the parties involved. It is necessary to lay down specific provisions to ensure the personal and economic freedoms of those involved in professional sport, and this can be done by means of specific arrangements for ensuring that professional athletes and coaches are engaged, in accordance with the proposals of the International Labour Organisation. Rules on these matters cannot be raised by bodies governed by private law, by international federations in equivalent nationalities, because the only person responsible is the state legislator or - as far as the Constitution allows - a supranational entity governed by public law. In addition, the state must identify the sporting jurisdiction in grade 1 and grade 2 with a special procedural system of an sports court, in which the current ASADE may also be hosted with special procedural provisions for the immediate performance of justice in sport and with the possibility of appealing to the relevant civil courts. These bodies, like the ETUC, for doping, and the Committee on Occupational Sports Control, must be an independent authority in order to ensure the independence and objectivity of their action, by exempting the central administration, so that it can be given its role under the Constitution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the context of this principle, independent arbitration must be established, with a view to the objective and impartial selection of arbitrators for an objective and impartial judgement during the struggles on specific conditions to be laid down by the law. In other words - and I shall end in a minute, Mr President - the thorough involvement of sport in a full, comprehensive, and not a fragmentary review, as the country's sports life needs today. In particular, in the field of amateur and professional sport, as well as'sport for everyone', there is a need for a comprehensive systematic intervention. The aim of the sports legislature is to ensure modern arrangements for sporting activity and for right, the so-called 'fair' trial in the emerging differences from the application of these rules. It is the application of ‘lex sportiva’, which is needed for a rapid, uniform and transparent award of the law to the sports field. This is why we consider it necessary to establish a sport code in the field of sport, with a thorough legislative process of all areas of reform and reform for a modern Corpus Juris Atletici. Unfortunately, Minister, the fragmentary arrangements you present in the bill do not satisfy any of these requirements. It is a pity, because we really need an overall review of the whole system as a matter of urgency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u90	We move on to the next speaker, Mr. Ioannis Shahinides, from Golden Dawn. Here, Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u91	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Association - Golden Dawn, as a genuine expressor of Greek nationalism, could in no way be differentiated from what has to do with the use of illegal substances of the so-called 'pharmaco-drugism', the known doping. Therefore, a firm position on the Golden Dawn in terms of sport and the conditions under which the struggles must be conducted at local, pan-Hellenic, pan-European and global level was and are the equality of athletes, their fair preparation without drugs, their noble speech, and everything that is positive and is promoted through the sporting spirit. But we must focus on the cause of the doping phenomenon. It has to do with the commercialisation of sport. And this is about the pressure exerted on athletes at all levels so that they can perform better, be faster, jump higher and be stronger.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u92	Just quiet down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u93	I will refer to Article 23 selectively, because it is the only one that refers to the beneficial provisions for athletes, who have been distinguished and awarded the rank of officer to the Armed Forces. Rehabilitation in the Armed Forces should be done in relation to the sport in which they have been distinguished, as far as possible or with molecules in case they have studied or other specialised knowledge to participate in ADP competitions, which would be ideal and meritable. Another very serious issue, however, which exists and no one has dared to touch it to date, is the refusal to submit a check on doping, and indeed on several occasions, by the missions of the American athletes, who have even threatened on several occasions to withdraw from the sports events in which they participated, which we have also lived, if you remember the 2004 Olympic Games. Indeed, if you remember, they had been devastated at the port of Souda, where no controls could be carried out at all. In Article 25 we say 'yes', because we consider it self-evident that those with movement problems should be able to operate autonomously, have access to all public spaces, to sports facilities, to the cans and to the toilets so that they can decide on their own for the period of stay and departure from these areas. In Article 28 we are voting against. It should say 'homogeneous and legitimate immigrants' and not give the right to import illegal immigrants who do not even have Greek citizenship. Of course, if it were in our hand, we would never give it to them. In Rule 31 we are voting on it. Once they represent Greece in official struggles, pay permits are required. We are also voting in Article 32. It is not specified here whether there will be a provision for their financial compensation if these attendants are also coaches. In Rule 38 we will say no, because it refers to non-prosecuting - in fact it gives immunity - to the members of the Court of Auditors. What analysis, however, can we do for what articles to discuss? This is where SYRIZA's coup d'état showed that she was unable to finish a Cup, protect it as it should. He's keeping land doors closed, he doesn't have the will, from what he's proved to do, to hit violence on the stadiums. On the contrary, with its manipulations and decisions, this alone has not succeeded. I cannot help talking about current developments. Your coexistence has lied a lot. You've made too many promises. But you also said truths, which the ordinary Greek people did not understand. You were electorally talking about an open borders policy. Unfortunately, many few had understood that. Recently we have had examples of your officials and indeed of officials who are also in the government, Deputy Ministers and even Ministers, who, in their statements on several occasions - and it is not only Mr Mouszalas, a few days ago he was Mr Xydakis - have repeatedly called Skopje 'Macedonia'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u94	You missed something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u95	For who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u96	You missed something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u97	Please don't interrupt. Mr. Shahinides, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u98	Macedonia was and is one and only, Mr Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u99	You're fucked like Muzalas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u100	There is also the Facebook profile of the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Vernardakis, who, apart from his photo, has five young people on the background, who go over the turks with the Turkish flag. If we wait for these people who rule us, to function as they should function and run this country properly, somewhere is wrong. The problem, however, is not your inability as coexistence. Your problem is one and only: that you are, unfortunately, capable of everything. You did not take advantage of the opportunities that you were given to put pressure on the neighbours, Albania, Skopje and Bulgaria, where, as you all know very well, almost exclusively most companies that are active in economics are of Greek interest. And think of how many jobs this has cost our country. As far as Turkey is concerned, you have not exploited and you have not used a geostrategic, virtual policy, even for reasons of impression, with Russia, to use it as a lever of resistance - since you like the pretext "anti" and you use it extensively - to the pressure exerted on you by the troika and the others. You know very well that Turkey is facing too many internal problems and not just. I think it was the right time to put pressure on us to be able to gain too much. However, from what I understand from the proposals made by your colleagues and your advisers and from the recent recruitments of counsellors you have done, no matter what you do, no matter what you decide and whenever you decide to go to elections, look for partnerships for co-operation now, because we nationalists are doomed to win. With your alchemys, we'll win. And in the folk, we're having a party with you and the Civic Opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u101	We proceed with the Parliamentary spokesman from Potami Mr. Georgios Amyras. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last 24 hours, we have been watching - and in fact in a live stream - a pragmatism with the co-competent two co-pilots, Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos. Mr. Kammenos has taken on the role of a decent punisher and attempts with his own hands to force virtual drowning to the government, in which he himself is involved. Mr. Tsipras, on the other hand, appears to keep his breath under the water, waiting for Tuesday or Wednesday to come, so either the oxygen will be over or the lies will be finished for both co-pilots. And all this is happening when the economy is in complete dissolution, society is paralysed, unemployment once again, unfortunately, according to the statistics of the Statistical Authority takes off, the evaluation has been blocked, and the Ministers of the Government SYRIZA - ANEL are going back and forth to 'Hilton', trapped between the nonexistent red lines and the absence of any design. And all this, of course, with the refugee question, is the outstanding one that gives the tébo, the pace of society and the politics of that country. The refugee is tending to become a national issue, with thousands of people in Idomen, in the islands, in Piraeus, not to feel the dignity for which the SYRIZA - ANEL government is supposed to be disfellowshipped. We have reached the point where Angelina Jolie, who is known only to go to the third world fronts, in Myanmar, in Lebanon, in the war zones. It therefore puts us on the map of the third world situation in relation to the refugee border and various regions of our country. These two co-operators of this drama, namely Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos, set up - perhaps one of his two unwitting ones - an incredible stage of political instability. We have to say that the work we've seen, especially from Mr. Kammenos. Wasn't he saying it was going to happen, Cugie, so he wouldn't get VAT on the islands? And VAT on the islands was paid by Mr Kammenos and indeed by the above. Wasn't he saying there's no way he could sign a memorandum? And he signed a Memorandum and voted with both hands. Did he also not say that hot spots should not be made on the islands so as not to attract other immigrants and refugees? Isn't he asking for Mr Musala's dismissal and for him to remain in the government himself? Threats and fears. Where, in fact, does he address his threats and fears? The only Kougi that Greek society lives in is what we all see in front of us: an economy in paralysis, a market completely dissolved and the capital controls, a society which, unfortunately - and this is your worst "achievement" - has begun to surrender. The feeling of tradition prevails everywhere alone and in the collective expression of the Greeks. The reason for this is the failure of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The inadequacy is the reason why the Kugi from which the country is at risk has evolved in the Vaterlo of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos, both in the refugee and in the economy and in society. And it is a good thing that the "caramella" is about withdrawing the ANELs and replacing the "laugh" of the government with the Potami to forget it. There is not even one in a billion chance of pinching out of this 'caramella'. Now, when we come to the question of harmonising Greek legislation with the WADA's new Antidopting Code, first of all to ask what legislation this is. What a shocking piece of legislation is that? Let's take the general picture. First of all, we have seventeen legislative acts by this government. Within a year, every record has been broken. You must feel lucky that it is not in this Chamber, on behalf of the Bureau, your former partner, Zoe Konstantopoulou, to see what you would answer to it at the time. Eleven are the bills that this government has brought in the form of urgency, just as we are discussing. What does that mean? It means that within an eight-hour period, spray, wipe, finish, talk, listen, vote or not to vote for bills and laws that will change life in many expressions and expressions of the economy and society. You told us that tomorrow the second extension of the deadline for harmonisation expires. However, Mr Keller, WADA's Director for Education and Harmonisation, had come to Athens in July 2015 - you had met him, Minister - and he had publicly said that the Greek Government, Greece, at last, must move quickly in the field of harmonisation of its legislation with international rules for the fight against doping. And our colleague, Mr Mavrotas, rightly told you to avoid the term 'pharmaco-drugism'. He's given a sweetness. It's a doping boat. Not to say about the fifty articles that are irrelevant to the core of the bill. They have nothing to do with the doping and the anti-doping effort. However, what gave me particular impression is the clandestineness with which the translation took place. I counted a hundred and fifty-six translation errors from English to Greek. On the one hand, it's to smile a little, because it has some very cute. For example, it mentions the term 'competition' meaning 'fight' and translates it into 'the competition'. How's the Eurovision competition? That's the way it is here. No relationship. The 'in reply to', which means 'in terms of them, as far as they are concerned, has translated it - if possible! - in this draft law as'respectfully to the people'. "Rest in peace" they say! Article 29 abolishes the National Sport Planning Council provided for in Law 2725/1999. That arrangement was inactive. However, this council, which you are abolishing, was responsible for recommending the criteria for grants, which the Ministry gives to sports clubs and federations. Not that there was no party. It was a big party with sports grants. They were building a phony or a fake club there and taking money from every furious and every passive friend, best man and nephew.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u103	That's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u104	So it is true, Minister, that you say what the criteria are now and what it is to ensure that we do not see them again. So you tell us. With regard to sports planning, I would suggest that you hire there, to set you up, Mr. Karanika, the Prime Minister's counselor, because he has experience and somewhere he will offer. Article 30: Remove the International Sports Organisations Information Committee established by Article 42 of Law 2725/1999 and set up a Committee on International Sport Relations. There is, however, a supreme Directorate for International Relations and the European Union at the Ministry of Culture. Please make it clear to us whether the Directorate-in-Office will be in conflict with the new address under way in this area, namely the Committee on Information for International Sports Organisations. The Minister shall appoint the three members of this committee directly. Ladies and gentlemen, shouldn't anyone talk to us about the dope that's going on in the gym? Does anyone not have to talk to us about drugs and all the illegal substances that young people in particular, without guidance, without particular information and education, can easily find on the Internet? At some point you can tell us, and that is why you are going to do, otherwise we are building an island, which we consider to be safe, but which is actually sinking slowly until the sea swallows it, and then we will wonder why we are in this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, in principle we shall vote on the bill. We think you're too late to bring it in, so we can discuss it in a good time. However, we think that we should start the war on doping somewhere. We would like you to tell us, as all the speakers here mention it, how you will finally boast - not as sole responsible, but in cooperation with society and healthy sports clubs - the violence on the ground, the violence that drives us all away, which doesn't let families enjoy and where we see that some others had done it, which were worse than us, such as the British, who in two years' time cleaned up their football...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u105	We've been implementing the law for five months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u106	You're one year, you're not five months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u107	Five months, the law applies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u108	You're one year Minister, a year you're government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u109	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u110	So we're waiting in a year and you've done what Thatcher did, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u111	Don't provoke me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u112	...he didn't stop anywhere to clear up the scene in English football.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u113	Complete your thoughts, Mr. Amyras, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u114	Sure. You see the footballers are playing in the back, two meters, and the English spectators aren't listening. We have put cameras here and I do not know what is happening and the situation remains the same and worse. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u115	Submit what you tell us in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u116	Your suggestions to your partner, Mr. Kammenos, because right now with your naked hands it makes you virtual drowning and you sit down and you see him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u117	Thank you, too. We are moving with Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos from the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u118	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment after my colleague, on a number of amendments and a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u119	Of course, Minister. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again the government brings to the House a bill of urgency. What now constitutes an urgent matter? Because the logic is gone. Minister, all you can do is degrade the quality of the legislature, because there is no time for public consultation, there is no effective cooperation with the stakeholders. There was no effective consultation. It has been decided in the Committee on Morphic Affairs that we should call and listen to the bodies, so that we can have an opinion on all the parties involved. How? Last minute. How? Partially. Here, then, many questions are being raised. Why should we decide on serious matters in the leg? Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Mrs Kefalidou has analysed the position of Democratic Partnership in detail. However, I would like to focus on the following points. With Part I, Articles 1 to 22, our legislation is in line with the WADA's new Antidopting Code. In Part II, we have provisions that have no urgency. That's why we have several objections. With regard to Rule 24 on the establishment of the General Secretariat of Sports Agency register, all the bodies that were present in the committee have told us and have told you that the information requested is too much. Why? Because they extend bureaucracy, because you are actually making it difficult to create the register. However, there have been concrete proposals from all the bodies for the information they consider necessary and for the time that they need realistically for their collection. As far as Article 26 is concerned, tell us the reasons why you were given the exceptional treatment of the Kathantzoglou National Stadium of Thessaloniki in administrative matters. The layout is problematic. You will mention: "The Committee shall take part in a Physical Education Professor as far as possible". What do you mean? You mean you can't find a Physical Education Professor? Thousands of undetermined men are. Choose one. With regard to Article 27, we disagree with the Standing Committee on Violence. Let it be done in the standards of the independent authorities in order not to be caught in state control. With Article 29, which concerns the abolition of the National Sport Planning Council, we totally disagree. Despite the problems of the ESS, as the bodies in the committee have told us, it should not be abolished. It can provide valuable service and special assistance in matters of sport planning. It is unacceptable to define with the next article a Committee on International Sports Relations. With regard to Article 37 for the remuneration of coaches, this requires recasting and clarification. Are you referring to federal coaches in general or to posted workers? With regard to Article 38 on the responsibility of members of the Court of Auditors, the Committee on Professional Sport and the ETUC, non-execution and uncontrollable are sensitive issues. It is preferable to adopt the model of independent authorities. In Article 41, on the one hand you are declassifying the bow as a weapon and on the other hand you are asking for a permit to hold. See it again. Let us now refer to Articles 49-65, where, of course, we say 'no'. What does the Ministry's establishment plan have to do with the Antidoping Code? Is it possible for a Ministry's establishment plan to come in the form of an emergency and indeed with the workers to complain that you do not agree to listen to them, stating that they are in hostage? We also disagree with Rule 67, initially, 73, with which you abolish a provision that this House voted twenty days ago. Now what are you asking us? Now you are asking us to 'vote'. In other words, we are continuing to 'vote and vote'. If nothing else, he needs seriousness. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously the vote of the Antidopting Regulation is crucial for the country. Obviously, domestic legislation needs to be brought into line with the WADA data. However, this does not relieve you of your responsibility to bring it under the normal procedure, even when we are in an Olympic year. Lords of government, Minister, you are a government for fifteen months. You should have known that there was a specific obligation of the country to harmonise legislation on WADA requirements. You should know the final dates so that Greek participation in the Olympiad of Rio would not jeopardise. You promised a "sport law" that we have not yet seen, where you could include all the arrangements you have brought today, which have nothing to do with the Antidoping Regulation. What did you do? You fucked everything up in a legislative text and presented it. In fact, you have invoked the urgency of the matter. You drag Members in voting for provisions that did not have the time to work out. Minister, the urgent urgency would have made sense and content, if it were the refugee issue, if the central issue was the refugee crisis, which requires national strategy and national understanding, because the humanitarian problem is enormous, with thousands of refugees and immigrants arriving every day in Greece, with thousands conspiring on the shores of our islands. This is an urgent matter for all of us, for all of the Greeks. However, we are voting in principle at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Mr. Undersecretary has the floor to make some announcements. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u122	Mr President, as I said in the debate in committee, we would announce the amendments tabled by the government in plenary. First of all, I would like to say that we were wrongly accused of having amendments. I said that we would bring an amendment tabled by SYRIZA Members to an older bill from the Ministry of Culture and Sport. And we said that for this amendment there will be cooperation between the co-legislators, so that we can come to an end. Today we are accepting it. It is the amendment with a general number of 286 and a specific number of 7. Another amendment, but in fact it was a provision contained in the bill under discussion, is the general number 288 and a special number 8, for which the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Dritelli, has already referred. I also want to make a legislative improvement. Mr. Mavrosh was right. In fact, there is a typographic error in paragraph 5.3 of Article 5 and the word 'no' has been read. It is defined as follows: ‘It cannot be challenged by an athlete or a third person,’. The word ‘no’ is added. It was a typographic error. I am therefore tabling the legislative proposals for Members to be aware. This is the most important amendment which we had indicted yesterday in committee, the following! [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Culture and Sports, Mr Stavros Kontonis, presents for the record the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] TAKE PAGE 147
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u123	Thank you, Minister. I would ask that the honourable Members be distributed. Mr. Fisherman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. We have all the bills in our amendments, and we have all the minerals in our bills. Perhaps the Minister will have fifteen amendments and only put one or two of them in place, but if we measure all the bills that this government has brought for the last fifteen months - the so-called 'SYRIZANEL', the Cipros - Kammenos, according to the Samarus - Venizelos - we will see that he has brought all the bills that he has brought, he has brought four times the number of amendments to the bills, irrelevant to every bill. They have given Chipros - Kammenes in a year twice or three times the number of acts of legislation, than the Samarus - Venizelos had brought in two, two and a half years. Twice and double. Legislative acts, presidential decrees under the urgency procedure, over half the bills! This bill could have discussed it loose and comfortable for three months, without any urgent procedure. And we could agree on all the sides of the House. We very much want consolidation in both doping and violence on the ground. Forty years ago we went to the stadiums with our friends, others were "jazers", other "bowls", "worms", "worms", "black panthers" - you know, all those names, all of them - and all together next door - we were watching the games well. Thirty, forty years ago. It's been a century ago, of course, because we've moved on and changed the centuries too fast and we're running too fast ahead, we're getting away! We can find evidence in every area of social life. In education, for example, we can find which country is going well. Finland? Yes, sir. How's Finland? He does one, two, three, four, five things. To popy-paste directly and put them on. Which country is going well to security? Belgium? What are you guys doing? We're not going to discover the powder or the wheel. We're not gonna make the lighters. We are not going to move on to Europe any third-world type of miso-sovietic, African variants in various systems where the Minister of Education in his seat - not only for that government, I say every Minister of Education - can do three reforms, five, seven, eight, with one, for plaque, when Finland has done an educational reform since 1961 - one! - and has changed fifty governments, allied, left right, centre-left, centre-right, all. I'll tell you more countries, if you want. Well, in order not to generalise all of this, I would like to say that we here will not discover the best ways of governing a country, which we want this governance to be done with a progressive sign, both partners. Right? Only some partners are kicking into progressiveity and radicalism. I do not want to talk at all about the system and the cooperation of the Chipros - Kammenos. Is that right? I would like to say that this bill will be voted on in the first place. And we will vote for it, not only because it is harmonisation with WADA, but also because we had to have done it ourselves, as well as many applications of the memoranda that are sending us from outside. We should have done it ourselves before they sent them out here. Reforms and institutional changes should have been made by us on our own rather than dictate them from outside, and we should have had our asses and monkeys, we should have taken the francs, we should have them, we should have told the world 'the punks, the pricks, the assholes, the Europeans are making us, they are blackmailing us, they're taking the francs and we should be appointed, we should make the old - the other - a client system, and we should make it our own client system and the existent corruption and conflict - the other, the destroyers - to make it our own system of corruption and interacting. Being the left - hand canals of the new canals and having various meetings and night meetings. These are not with a progressive mark, comrades, and comrades! That's an old-fashioned horn. So we will support this bill. And we will also support the bill the Minister will bring. He owes it as he owes 15 previous ministers, from Floridis, Lianis, etc. Not to mention all the Ministers of Sports that have passed. Since 2007, I have asked the Committee on Morphic Affairs for amendments to sport, we have also made proposals myself and too many people and my friends and old companions - who are sitting behind you, Minister and know very well - about the elections in the federations. To introduce a mere analogue to all federations. Others the system is majority, elsewhere it is half-analog, elsewhere reinforced analogue and elsewhere as it suits each boxing, each basketball and any swimming. We have to introduce a stable system of election to the sports federations, break doping at its base. That's something you can do very easily. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The athletes are acquitted and relieved. Also, these trainers and their pharmaceuticals, we have freed them and made them gargargoys. We haven't taken any measures at all. All the episodes on the stadiums go unpunished, while there are thousands of photographs, cameras, surveillance, the "Great Brother" with the cameras, for which some leftists were protesting. What have we done with the cameras now? Where is what the bottles are throwing? Where are the people that stab their neighbors? There's all these people! There's pictures and videos everywhere, which show where he came from and where he lives. We all know that. What have we done with them? Here again the 'copy paste'. What did the damn pasta do in England, this right-wing, Thatcher? Has the "cleaned" thing in two years? We interrupted the Cup! Why didn't we interrupt the Championship? Because the Cup is both symbolic and painless. It has nothing to do with TAE, with profits, with over-profits, with Champions League and all these tricks. It's the Cup now. All right, let's interrupt it. It's an easy thing to do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Championship can we interrupt it in five games? Can we remove five points at each game from the teams, which are responsible for the incidents taking place on their field? Because the FAOs give the tickets, the FAOs make the organised tours, the FAOs also give various "medicines" to these tours. These have been very well known for years, for the past twenty, thirty years that we have been living in this misery! We have to stop her now, Minister! The previous ministers had all the good will and had announced major changes and reforms, both for violence and for doping, and for the relationship between the AIFs and the links. Where are the association's statutes and what are links? Why don't the Panathinaiko fans go to Tuba? Which country in the world is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u125	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u126	Yes, Mr President, we will finish sometime. Why can't Mars fans go to the Faliro? Where and where? That is all I can do, not to say to Zimbabwe again, because I am insulting this country. I have received comments from people from Zimbabwe, I have been told: 'Don't say that again, my boy.' It is a serious country in Zimbabwe, it is not a 'cassapalian'. Well, this story has to end. There's a Minister, this Minister, an absolute responsibility to finish it now. If it does not finish it now, it will gradually proceed to the adoption of the final solution, which we say in English. Not to say now about the translations from English, the various 'gogle translation' that they have put into the bill. Even 'GOOGLE' do not do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u127	It's from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Fisherman.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u128	We've got to get it over with now. If we can't do it ourselves, we can see how others did it. And if the government cannot deal with the public affairs alone, except for other privatisations that we are discussing, we can also discuss the privatisation of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u129	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Theocharopoulos. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again you are unfortunately confronting us with your sloppy and fragmented legacy, making us sceptical even for your potential - whatever - good intentions. By invoking a tight time frame, in addition to the necessary arrangements to harmonise Greek legislation with the new World Code of Antidopting, which are undoubtedly positive, you are bringing to a debate and vote today in the House and in the form of urgency once again, a piece of legislation which includes many other heterocles and fragmentary provisions. Provisions which under no circumstances justify urgency, communication provisions, provisions confirming the short-sighted government policy. You present this bill as the answer to the time-consuming request aimed at transparent and transparent Greek sport. And you put pressure on it to vote until Friday 18 March, because this is the Dead line, otherwise Greek sport will be penalised for its participation in the Olympic Games and there is a risk that even the possibility of representation will be lost. And we're asking you. Who is responsible for this delay? The original programming according to your statements was the vote of the bill until the end of November 2015, thus ending in a surveillance of our country, where it is with other countries of the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u131	When did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u132	In November.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u133	When did I say that, Mr. Theocharopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u134	I'll testify to the Minutes later on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u135	I'd love to see when I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u136	You've been State Secretary, Mr. Kontonis, for 15 months. Instead of asking when you said and what you said, which you should know better than all of us in here, you should answer, because for 15 months you have not speeded up this process and we have arrived in the last days, on the very last day, to discuss a bill in the form of urgency. Why should we not discuss this as an urgent matter - and I am going to refer to it - only the refugee issue today, when the summit is currently in place? There would, of course, be no other question if this bill merely provided for the harmonization of national legislation with the Anti-Dumping Regulations. It is extremely necessary to incorporate a strong international grid of protection against doping in sport. It is, however, included in the bill of more than twice as many articles as anti-dopting, which are not related to its main content. We have listened to the committees to measure the pages to prove whether the second part is smaller than the first part or not, rather than answering them: why are you bringing another bill in the form of an emergency, while, as you have said, you will bring a law in May, to which we could discuss all these issues in detail, with the necessary consultation and parliamentary procedure, and as you have to do exactly in accordance with the procedures envisaged? They are therefore included in the bill articles, which are not related to its basic content, provisions for which the Democratic Reconciliation was requested, but also from the other parties of the Reconciliation in the committees, their withdrawal. However, with the obsolete argument that these are better provisions which must immediately go ahead, only five articles relating to the arrangements of the Ministry of Tourism were withdrawn. In no case does this draft law recommend a great deal of intervention by the government, as you would like to say, on this matter. Now should we say left-wing government? The left-wing government with nationalistism together, as evidenced these days? And I want to speak here clearly. We have a bill, Mr. Ministers, for anti-doping. I do not know whether it is Mr Kammenos, because Mr Kammenos and the Independent Greeks are dominated by power - this is the reality - and they remain in whatever way they disagree. It seems that your cooperation has no programming basis these days. We have told you at the first moment that we cannot play on these issues and we are talking about refugee. I want to tell you something, Mr Baltas, since you're here. It's not an honorable situation in Idomeni. I don't know if you've been to Idome, but we've been a stepping stone of Democratic Incorporation on Saturday in Idomeni. Not only is it not an honorable situation in Idoquius, but it is unacceptable. And I will say to you this: refugees and irregular immigrants - because that is where there is no separation - who reach 15 000, do not know if they will survive the next day. There is no state minister, no coordination between central state, local government and non-governmental organisations. This is the situation in Idomeni, which does not honor the European Union, which does not honor European culture, which we all want and which we have dreamed and honors Greece, does not honor our country. That's the reality. I have heard you say in your statements - to be precise - that the issue of honorableness with Asylum is the question of how the Greek state is currently reacting in relation to other countries. I also heard the Deputy Minister of Defence declare that: “What does the Opposition want? Shall we use tear gas?" Let me understand, do we have the surgery on the one hand and the chaos on the other? Are these the two choices that this government has? To be able to truly and effectively coordinate the protection of refugees, to be transferred to hospitality centres as they should, is it not within its competence? They're really desperate, and the people who make superhuman efforts, and they're all desperate in Idomeni. The situation that we saw on Saturday that we visited it is really hopeless. Of course, seeing what is happening in the last few days between Mr Kammenos, the government, Mr Mouszala, who made a mistake and for which he apologized, I would like to say that together they will work together for the solution of the refugee question. A question. In other words, the Minister of National Defence with the Minister of Migration Policy will now work together on a daily basis to resolve the issues, to find the empty spaces, the camps, and to facilitate each other in a national refugee strategy. If you think such a problem can be handled, you're deeply sleepy. And I would, of course, like to know if you are still insisting that you go along with the centre-right, as Mr Tsipras said in his recent interview. If that's the centre-right! Although you'd like to say you never ruled with the Right, but you've already admitted it. The question, however, is that you are not confronted with centre-rights. With the nationalist right you're running. That is the reality, and that proves to be the case these days too. To return to the bill, the solution to the issues, therefore, which need immediate and, above all, substantial solutions - I am speaking beyond the first twenty-two articles - requires a comprehensive plan, an intervention in Greek sport, coordinated and coherent, in particular with respect for dialogue and parliamentary procedures. I do not think there is a man right now in the country dealing with sport and he has understood these fifteen months that there is such a design. You are now telling us that you will bring sporting law in May, and we hope that it will be and have the arrangements, to discuss them and to be in the direction it must be. But what we see is not a plea in that direction. So the bill we are discussing today is structured in two parts. In the first part, in the first twenty-two articles as I have told you, we can only agree. I will not dwell on the individual provisions now, because despite the fact that its first part is handy, translated and misguided - colleagues have said so too - and although the repealed provisions are not explicitly included, the Democratic Assent has no objection to the ratification of the code. I shall refer only to the last part, to Articles 49 to 65, which is a second part, to which we disagree. You are bringing changes to the Agency of the General Secretariat, which are totally fragmentary and lead nowhere. We can't understand. We are talking about the establishment plan in the form of an emergency in one day at the moment, and that is what honours the parliamentary procedure. I do not think the SYRIZA Members have ever taken a different view on this particular matter, either. Should we discuss an establishment plan of the Ministry in the form of an emergency? This would like a presidential decree to be precise, and a Council of State, so that it could be adopted afterwards. These are the procedures to be followed. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by saying that in the country the problems are too great. The evaluation is at its top right now. There seems to be no plan on all these issues. As for the refugee issue, today we have the summit. We have tabled concrete proposals in a positive direction and at the summit today, and throughout this period for the refugee problem. We're trying to find a solution. We contributed twice to the national line. We have both contributed to the Heads' Councils on the common national line. But from now on there is no excuse. You must now make the alliances that we need in Europe and in the evaluation of the refugee issue. You should have done them yesterday, not now. There is at this moment no other excuse for this matter. The country cannot return - as was the summer in that negotiation - one against either the refugee or the economic crisis. Of course, we will not allow the existing problems in European policy and the existence of a common European policy on refugees and other issues to develop a climate of anti-Europeanism in our country. There need to be appropriate alliances. There are allies, there are the European Commission, as well as countries which could help in this direction, so that we can resolve the refugee issue at the same time as the evaluation, which, if we do not resolve it, will sink the country. These are the crucials, these are what we had to discuss at the moment in the form of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mrs Aylonitou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u138	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u139	Oh, excuse me, Mrs. Alonitou. The Minister has the floor, Mr Baltas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u140	I wouldn't take the floor if I didn't hear Mr. Theoharopoulos just before. I will simply note that Mr Theocharopoulos is not doing well either with topography or with his story. Mr. Theocharopoulos, as far as topography is concerned, you refer to centre-right. I imagine you consider yourself to be centre-left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u141	Mr. Tsipras said so...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u142	If you consider yourself central-left, I will remind you of the tradition of your resignation. The delivery of your resignation listened, commented, always criticised on data and actual locations. It was not so easy to submit to the montazier, because the famous phrase for which the famous noise was made was a part of an answer. Mr Mitsotakis' tweet came out very quickly, without him sitting here listening to the whole placement and during the montazier's tactics, he isolated a phrase and made it a national issue. I expected that at least you would read the answer, which was a narrative of the actual answer given by the journalist at a press conference, and you would not be coming to Parliament today to say what you said. On the substance, I said and repeat, that Idomenis is exemplary for Greece, because Greece is doing everything in its power to stop as part of humanity the disgrace for humanity and for Europe, which is Idomenis. If you don't like this, if you want another treatment in Idomen according to his standards, I rush away, I get people from here to take them and so I don't think that would join the tradition you want to invoke, which is the tradition of the centre-left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u143	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u144	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u145	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u146	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u147	Soon as soon as we can.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u148	Please, Mr President. He mentioned himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u149	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u150	Minister, that's exactly what we're doing. We are listening, commenting and exercising opposition, as is our duty to do. You referred to a montazier. Once, a modeler in Greece, a second modeler in relation to Idomeni. How many mistakes have you made in excellence? And these bad journalists, how many times are they trying to change what you're saying? We hear them, we don't just watch them. We're reading them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u151	You're listening to selectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u152	And I mentioned before my speech and the answer you gave and told you that our country's attitude to Idomenis is not an honorable one, because there is a total absence of the state. That's what I've been talking about. We are therefore stable on the road at the moment of the centre-left, because that is where you referred. And remember better what your party used to say about Central Left and Social Democracy. Now you also go to the European Union. The problem is, do you know what it is? That you, Mr Balta, do not honor the Left and you are not left with what you are doing. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u153	All right, let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u154	Mr Preadre, the Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u155	I'd like the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u156	Minister, you have the floor for half a minute and we have to close this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u157	At least, Mr Theocharopoulos, if you refer to your statement beforehand, I would ask you to read the written text. Do not take a phrase that has a party and continues a next phrase. That's a montase.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u158	But I said, and what did you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u159	We're moving on. Mrs. Alonitou, I'm sorry for the suffering. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law on the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the World Antidopting Code and other provisions, i.e. WADA, incorporates the newest, third version of the WADA Antidopting Code, which has been in force internationally since 1 January 2015. The third version of the Code not only incorporates the latest scientific developments in the field of doping control but introduces an innovative approach to documenting the doping infringement. Until now, with the previous regulation, doping had to be established with an analysis of the traces of the metabolites of the banned substances. But these traces could in some cases be hidden. And we all remember, in 2004, this famous, miraculous substance, the "clean" - as it was called in the athletic language - which left no trace of the analysis. The new regulation introduces the possibility of documenting a doping infringement in the light of the results of earlier analyses by the same athlete, of later analyses on older samples, as well as of the new organisation of the biological passport of the high-level sport, which records the development of critical biological parameters over the years in each individual individual. So as an ergonomicist I'll tell you that if someone has normally increased testosterone, we'll know. But if he didn't have it all of a sudden, we'll also know. And I would remind you of a previous case of doping, which invoked this fact as an excuse. It also allows the maintenance of samples for future DNA analysis. Let me give you an example of dealing with gene doping with the new regulation. Today there is no reliable method of identifying gene doping. We do not even know if it is used in practice - it is not enough to speculate - while the technology is developing from month to month. With the new regulation, however, WADA can have a sample of the athlete's DNA from the time that it had no worldwide performance and compares it to what its organization produces at the time when the world records are broken. So the innovative one today is that WADA can still use these elements to impose a disciplinary penalty for exclusion, without having determined exactly how the gene transfer took place. Finally, WADA can control any high-level athlete on its own initiative directly, by circumventing its federation - so that we do not forget, that there are also old-tech doping covering methods. However, this approach, ladies and gentlemen, needs a legal framework which allows the relevant sampling, analyses and the use of their data in the disciplinary procedure of the anti-doping authorities. That is why we are called upon to incorporate the code into national legislation. I would like to point out that this applies only to athletes who have a high level of age on the basis of their performance, who wish to receive this designation and who only apply to the WADA disciplinary procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, however, this bill was criticised by Opposition, particularly for the other provisions it contains and for the urgency procedure. I shall vote in favour here, in part, but from another point of view. The other provisions of the bill do not have to do with the fact that they are many. They're suffering from the fact that it's too few. There are critical issues of outstanding sport, and today's bill refers to the bells. I would just like to stress the urgent need to introduce a system of mere proportional representation for the elections of the administrations of sports federations. This is a matter of urgency, since the elections will take place this year. It is still a pre-election announcement of the government, while, in law, it has no difficulty at all, because there is a ready amendment from members of the SYRIZA that I have signed. But the State Secretary did not agree to include the matter in the bill. He left it for a longer time. Can I tell you something as an athlete? There's never a better time. We cannot legislate on the basis of the principle'never do what you can do tomorrow'. Because at the end of the day, it ends up being "Don't do what you never want to do." Finally, I would like to dwell on the other amendment that I have tabled and which has been accepted, concerning the promotion of Olympic and internationally distinguished athletes who are police officers and fire officers and their assimilation to the officials in the Armed Forces and the Port Authority. It aims at dealing fully with distinguished athletes in all bodies and likens everyone in the Army, since over the years there have been legislative discrepancies in dealing with distinguished athletes, who are serving in the Body of Greek Police and the Fire Corps. I am therefore voting in favour of the draft law on the principle and article. I am waiting, Minister, for you to immediately bring the bill that you have promised, which will regulate the remaining outstanding but very critical issues of sport, and for you to commit that the elections to sports federations this year will take place with the new electoral system, as all the sports movement that is following us is awaiting. And - believe me - we're being watched by too many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Alonitou. Parliamentary spokesman from the Centroon Union, Mr Karras, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Today is a really difficult day for the country, as the Prime Minister goes to the summit - and I fear - with very few friends, with very few friends, who have to deal with huge problems. Let's hope the friends become more. So we are discussing today in the Chamber the draft legislation on harmonisation with the WADA International Convention, which, of course, if we stand on legal accuracy, does not have any status of a state or an international organisation and more - I can say - is a private contract. It doesn't matter. Since it combats pharmacopoeia, the main articles relating to harmonisation and introduction into Greek legislation will be voted on. But we have issues in the same bill. I will not dwell on the urgent matter. It was an excellent place for most of our colleagues, who accused it, who convinced us that there are no conditions in the other provisions of the urgency. Unfortunately, the Minister told us that we should do it "necessarily and gods are convinced", because we arrived on the last day, essentially and should be introduced into Greek legislation. But why did we get to the last day? We don't have translators? I heard the excuse yesterday that it was difficult to translate certain scientific terms. I don't have that picture. I read, at least, the definitions of the contract. I don't see it being so hard to translate into a series of months. Regardless of this, however, unfortunately, the same bill in part repeats what the Ministry of Culture and other bills have attempted. With a culture at first, we then come to seek for a setup. So I'll start and say. About the field of Khatadzoglou. When it is essentially a donation, when an institution is actually covered - because Khaantzoglou was not the Greek state - why should a provision come and remove the administration from those appointed by the Kathantzoglou covenant and assign it to a wider committee appointed by the Minister? The Minister for Sports, ladies and gentlemen, in this case I must say that he is exaggerating in providing for the concentration of competences in the Ministry of Sports. It is not many days ago that we discussed and brought the same example to the issue of the Greek festival, on which it decided, on the grounds that it was urgent for the Greek Festival to become this summer, to take responsibility and power to appoint an artistic director for six years. As the summer festival of 2016 will last for six years! So, concentration of powers. The same is being done here, in addition to Katoantzoglou, which will create in future - I fear - a number of problems. Because we must not forget that Kathantzoglio is also the seat of a historic football team in Thessaloniki. My colleagues in the Central Association, Mr Saridis, Mr Fokas, have discussed this with great attention and in many detail, the issue of historian Hercules, as well as what side effects this provision will create, where the Minister of Sport will now decide on that stadium, which is basically their home, not only in the football department of Hercules but also in the other sports departments. With the effort to bring the state down, to keep all the responsibilities, will sport promote 100% as supported by the Ministry? Oh, no. 'Philippine Union'. Another thing that we have seen in Philippe today. So it comes to us and the draft law tells us that the decisions of the European Union - known as the legal form - are not mentioned in my speech - are considered approved within 10 days of the receipt and amendment of the legal status which has been in force so far, where they were 30 days of approval, and after the deadline they are automatically deemed to have been approved. What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u163	What's wrong with that? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u164	I'll tell you right away and don't interrupt me, please. I'll tell you where the bad is. You connect it to the transfer of the O.R.P.D.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u165	No relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u166	You've troubled us with the OHIM in this House. You brought in and you get your rights, I've said it before - even pins. There's a volume! You afflicted the House, Mr. Kontonis, with the contract of the OIE when it was transferred and, therefore, the evil is that there is no legality control, so that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u167	From us? No, you're wrong, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u168	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u169	I'm not wrong at all. We voted in favour of the ILO Convention here and you brought it from the Ministry of Culture, in the form of an amendment, to the whole volume. Look for it, you'll see it tomorrow, I'll have sent it to your office. And the pins I said then that you recorded in the company's records, in the company's freeze books, don't lose the investor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u170	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u171	So I'm on my way. We believe that the restriction in ten days of the deadline is minimal and gives immunity to the possible illegality of Philippian Union. Do you know where else you're giving immunity, since you're causing me, Minister? You say that the members of the Court of Auditors of the EESC and of the ESRB have a peculiar immunity. They shall not be criminally prosecuted, criminally prosecuted, except for fraud and where it is proved. Why should we give such immunity to the administrative bodies, when the last civil servant in the country is in danger of being accused of violating duty if not for infidelity, for EUR 500 or EUR 1,000, and when funds are being managed here? You didn't answer that either. I mean something else. You bring a number of articles and say that the Agency of the Ministry of Culture is being amended for the most flexible, more effective, more effective way. I am not talking about urgency, this has been overcome, there is no such matter. I wonder why something has to be done by a President-in-Office of the Council of State, and as a legislative act, should have the right to question the legality of the Council of State? Is it common to bring in law, should the House be called upon to vote on provisions which should follow the procedure laid down in Article 42 of the Constitution? I want the government to stand at this point, because in Article 42 of the Constitution at least the lawyers from us know when a presidential decree is issued and when they are not and when we all know when laws are required and when they are not. So why? Are you afraid to bring it in the form of a Presidential Decree so that it does not fall under judicial control? I did not understand that, but I did not go to see what the provisions were intended to do, because I was put before the House that we could not support or treat such cases in the future. We will also vote against these provisions on the amendment of the Statute of the Ministry of Culture for reasons of principle. Something else, however, particularly troubled me at the last minute. Was it a verbal, verbal error, or is the philosophy of a provision that was also important in the WADA Convention now? You bring a legislative improvement and you say in paragraph 5.3 of Article 5 of the draft law, before 'it can be challenged by an athlete or a third person', the word 'no' is added. In other words, can any action taken in connection with pharmacopoeia under this convention be called into question? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President, because I am committed to being brief. Any action taken at the pharmacopoeia stage can not be called into question? Are we going to give absolute authority to the institutions, which are institutionalised for control? Shouldn't he be questioned? Consider why this has an issue and unconstitutionality, because no one is now imprisoned or unreserved, unless he stands within the immunity you are constantly giving provisions, staff, administrations and all of this. We shall, however, vote on the amendment tabled by colleagues, Mr Panja and Mrs Dritselli. Let's take care of a little bit more. You said that the amendment would be accepted. The leases are the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. Let the Minister of Justice also sign the draft law, so that we can bring amendments. Do not abuse the legislative function and do not think that the House does not understand what is happening. At least I've said it many times that I think I'm offended by the way you legislated. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u172	Thank you, too. We shall proceed with Mrs Maria Antonio from the New Democracy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 'The necessary arrangements for harmonising Greek legislation with the new Antidopting Code of the World Organisation Antidopting and other provisions'. This is the important thing. It's a bill that comes to Parliament - how else? - with the emergency procedure! What can I say? It must be a parliamentary record, of course, negative, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the SYRIZA Government - ANEL one in the four bills it has brought up to now is in the urgency procedure, with the Minister for the urgent need to harmonise with the revised World Code of Antidopting WADA, which, not least, has been in force since 1-1-2015. So, Minister, you have been at your disposal for fourteen months to integrate the new code. And you did it just one day before the deadline given to you by WADA expires. So it took a year and a half to translate a code. Mercy, gentlemen of the government! "The holiday mother of all evil," as the opinion says. And the sufferings that the country is going through today, with the uncontrolled situation in the refugee - immigration - see Asylum - see the economics - see the increase in public debts to private individuals by 1,7 billion - with the ever greater poverty of households, as the households' available income decreased by 0.3% in 2015 - see the Bank of Greece's third memorandum - see August 2015 - see the increase in taxation - see VAT 23% - and the list has no end, mainly due to two facts: firstly, to the fact that you are rather incapable and secondly, to the fact that you are rather lazy. Nevertheless, both the New Democracy and the Opposition together, we accepted the urgency of the first part of the bill, as the risk was enormous. We could never allow our country to be deprived of the right to represent the Olympic Games in Rio because of your negligence - lazyness. However, as I pointed out in my position before the committee responsible, in no case does the urgency justify the second part of the draft legislation, a part that initially appeared consisting of fifty two articles and finally sewed - has so far reached the forty-six articles, which are nothing more than a string of various regulations independent of the subject of this draft law, namely the 'anti-doping' title. These arrangements, Minister, could well, as has been said, constitute a separate bill, which would be voted on under the normal parliamentary procedure. After all, the SYRIZA - ANEL government is not distinguished for its parliamentary ass. As you all know, in the last three weeks there has been no single bill for discussion and a vote in plenary, which is limited to the work of parliamentary control. But otherwise, you continue to lie and post-election. You say growth will come in 2016. We voted for a development bill, and I don't remember it? So let's see some of the articles in the bill. Article 9(1) establishes as a primary disciplinary body a nine-member disciplinary committee set up by a decision of the ESRB Board. It is at least a impression, Minister, that a year ago in your bill entitled "Emerging measures to tackle violence in Greek sport" you stressed the need for the football disciplinary and judicial bodies to be appointed exclusively by ordinary judges. Now, a year later you come in and legislate in the opposite direction? What happened? Manolius woke up and put his clothes on differently? Do you, in other words, remove the disciplinary authority to control anti-doping from ordinary judges and assign it to a committee appointed by the ETUC, that is to say from you? Oh, no, Minister, we're not accepting your ass! Also, in Article 24 - as has been said almost all the bodies - what is the purpose of demanding AMCA and AMM sportsmen and perhaps minors as well as volunteers? What's the point? Of course, should the elements of federations, players, sports clubs and the nine-year-old football club player be asked for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u174	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u175	Generally, the bill or the second part of the bill is rather an attempt to control you of all the procedures and factors involved in sport, as is indicated by Article 46, which - as was said in committee at the hearing of bodies - is intended to control even the NRA's own resources. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. And the truth is that there is nowhere - we are, of course, talking about the second part of the bill that we are discussing - the logic of encouraging and developing the sporting ideal, nor about how it can be promoted through schools, society, that is to say, to encourage young children to deal with sport, to make us proud again with considerable discrimination in world events. There's nowhere for the athletic ideal in this bill. And finally, on the occasion of the latest events, let me reconstitute myself. I am Maria Antoniou, MP Kastorias who belongs to the Region of Western Macedonia, part of the one and only Macedonia, of the Greek. I want to assure you that I am proud to live among people who resist selfishness, are struggling for historical truth and are not ready to sell everything just to get hooked up in a chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u176	Thank you. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u178	Please, just quiet down. Mr. Balaura, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u179	We have witnessed a new theatrical project "Panos Kammenos against all". Is this the fifteenth, sixteenth, 20th time we see it? So Panos Kammenos, who is addicted to the government, who is addicted to the minister’s chair, once again threatened that Minister Muzalas should leave or else she will drop the government. And of course Muzalas hasn't left yet, he's still here. Cammenos was gonna drop the government at 9 a.m. in the morning, then went at 11:00 a.m., came at 15:00 a.m. and he hasn't done anything. Because his only will as Minister is not of course to solve a problem in our country but is to take walks with the chopper and go all the way to Schisto here to Scaramaga, taking the helicopter to get from his house to the north suburbs. So he didn't drop the government. And - I repeat - why did he want to shoot her? Because Muzalas called Skopje Macedonia. And Kammen got a misunderstanding about it. But it had not been misunderstood - and it had not been misunderstood - when the entire government came out and supported Muzala and said that this was our opinion. Because SYRIZA's view, the left-wing view, is that. And in the discussions between them, of course, they call Skopje, namely Macedonia. And if that's not the case, let anyone deny me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u180	I'm disgusting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u181	Are you confusing me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u182	I'm telling you, I'm confusing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u183	All right, when you officially sell the name, come find me again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u184	Don't have a dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u185	Because with the food, when I told you you were forbidden, you didn't know and told me it wasn't like that and it finally came out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u186	Have you heard any symphony say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u187	Muzala and the entire government squeezed him. Friend's out, the Prime Minister, the entire government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u188	That's a verbal mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u189	We don't have a dialogue. Please! You're not helping that way, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u190	And I tell you what the entire government says. You are a mere congressman - and unfortunately, perhaps, because I wish you were Minister - but your government ministers are smiling at this process and I don't see you doing anything about it. You sit in the chair, too. And when the Minister, Kammenos, protested about all this, forgot to tell us that he himself, as Minister, a few days ago, had NATO and Turkish ships guarded in the Aegean. What happened there? The Minister of National Defense didn't get any misunderstandings, did he not? Was that for the good of the country? No sovereign rights exist for the good of the country. And if Kammenos thinks he'll make a lot of fun, we warn him and let him know that the Golden Dawn and the Greek nationalists can't help us. And we can tell him all this in front of his face because we don't have to hide and fear anything. Well, let's stop these. Because when a few days ago, my friend, the SYRIZA MPs, who have them here among you, Kara Yusuf and Zabec interviewed the Turkish newspaper 'HÜRRIYET' and said that there is a Turkish minority in Thrace - unless for Macedonia there is a problem for Thrace there is no problem - and that the Prime Minister understands them, no one opposed them. You did not oppose neither the Minister, the Kammenos, who is fighting for national interests. And we're saying exactly what Hussein Zabeck said to Xanthi. "He has told us" about Tsipras "that discrimination against the Turks must stop." So he said, and the Prime Minister didn't invite him to say, "What are you talking about here? What Turkish minority is there in Xanthi, our Thrace?" But he shook his head, not because he has a different view, but because that's what he thinks. So, then, the Minister of National Defence, Kammenos, took no position, because this issue did not take a large measure. When he does not take large proportions, he shuts his mouth and sits on his eggs. That's the reality. And also a few days ago, after misunderstanding about the term "Macedonia", the official communiqué of the French Presidential Palace under the presence of François Holland with the term "Macedonia" referred to Skopje as an official document of the Social Democrats in Paris. Tsipras was over there, Kammenos's partner. Why Tsipras and Kammenos are doing exactly this work: they sell Greece, they sell Macedonia! And, of course, when New Democracy comes out and reacts to them and asks for Muzalas to resign, there is a lot of laugh, because the father of the current President of the New Democracy and then the Chief of the New Democracy was the one who sold out the name of Macedonia in the 1990s. And he was the one who daringly dared and said in ten years no one will remember the name, no one will pay attention. However, there are Greek nationalists who pay attention to both the name and will fight for Macedonia, not to the words, not to the benches and microphones, but to the streets, to the professions. It's a lot of fun when you dare and you refer to Macedonia. In this Chamber, unfortunately, none of you can talk about national issues, because to a large or small extent, you have sold them out. And if some have national ideals, you don't have the guts, but resist what's happening, because you're in your orders and when you see what's going on, close your mouth and just sign what's going on. So quietly on national issues! You have no right to speak. They're giving everything to illegal immigrants. Everything! We saw a few hours ago at the port of Piraeus, becoming extensive incidents. Of course, there they did not get the same size, we did not have much to do with it. When Afghans are killed there with Syrians, with Moroccans - I don't know - with every walnut that's here, there's no question. There's no question there. We're going through this. But that is what is happening and, unfortunately, it will continue to happen. As is also a disgrace for Greece and the Greek state, the Greeks should be hungry at the moment and Greece should be looking and finding homes for thirty and forty thousand illegal immigrants, with the rent paid, PPC, EYDAP and giving them an allowance! It is a disgrace for the so-called Greek state, because they are in introductory "Greek state". He doesn't try and help any Greek fellow citizen. And if you want any more evidence, we're here to give them to you. A few days ago we took from the centre of illegal immigrants in Schisto here - I would like you to keep them in the Minutes - where dozens of food portions paid by the Greek people are thrown out of the garbage by illegal immigrants, because they have been filled, and at the same time - there are registered reports of such complaints - there were many families from Perama and from Amphilia that went outside the camp, pleading to get what the illegal immigrants fly. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The officer's answer, do you know who it was? We have an order not to give anyone but those who are in the camp. This is your descent and you have the courage to smile here with each other. That's the catalyst! But once the Greek people get up and upset - because you have him in repression - then we will discuss all of this. With all that we have forgotten the discussions with the quartet troika, with the IMF which has become institutions. We forgot all about it. We forget that here, in a hotel in Athens, there are some consultations and some discussions at the moment. For what? Whether the pension goes to 280 or to 310 euros. You have been poor, you have made the Greek people zetula, you have made him worse than the Romanians, the Bulgarians, than the Albanians, of those who have so far come here to find a piece of bread. You have made the Greek citizen a charm in anyone's appetites and these things have been forgotten. They're not mentioned anywhere. They went to second and third degrees, but we all talk about the poor illegal immigrants who are in Idomen, who are in the islands, who are anywhere. They are poor, therefore, some of these illegal immigrants, but unfortunately, much poorer, on your own responsibility, they are Greeks and for illegal immigrants Greece has no responsibility. He didn't create any war, he didn't go to do any harm at their borders. They just loaded us here. For our Greek fellow citizens, however, you are all responsible for getting them to this point. You have a responsibility, because you don't worry about all of them. Because you consider it self-evident what is happening. It doesn't hurt you. But it hurts you when a child has a fever in Idomeni, which for all of us is not good. None of us want this thing, nobody wants people to get trampled in there, but - I repeat - we will look first to help our Greek fellow citizen. Also, say something else about the illegal immigrants who are filled with us. First of all, we hear they tell us today about some numbers: forty-five thousand five hundred seventy. Where have those numbers come from? Who tells me they're forty-five thousand five hundred seventy illegal immigrants? I say that these figures are false, they are fictitious, and I would like a group to be set up at some point by representatives of the House and to go on record to see how many people they are. You're mocking us because you put us on a cubit of fifty thousand immigrants and you're taking us up to fifty thousand slow and steady. Tomorrow there will be forty - six thousand two hundred, forty - seven thousand four hundred, when every day on our islands there are four thousand and five thousand. You're mocking us in our eyes! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Excuse me, Mr President, just a second more. I would like to say one last thing about the poor illegal immigrants, not the Golden Dawn, but it tells the journalist Mr. Kolios at the station "MAHIMUM 93.6", George Koukouradas, who is President of the Annex Alexandroupolis of the Greek Red Cross. But that's not what they're learning, because they shouldn't know. "The illegal immigrants taken by the people of the Red Cross, food, medicines and goods of the first need, do not accept them in the majority, because they have a cross." That's what the President of the Red Cross said. They have demands and they get them when they have the hemisphere. These, ladies and gentlemen. You're passing through!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u191	We continue with Mr Dimitrios Baxvanakis, speaker from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. During the last speaker of the New Democracy, we are lazy and incompetent. In a speech in Parliament's Chamber, this is called the 'political criticism'. Well, dear colleague, we're not lame. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a very serious bill on the harmonisation of national legislation with the new WADA Anti-Dipting Code. This strengthens our country's arsenal in the fight against doping, a battle that is continuous, as high-level sport is now fully traded. The methods of illegality are modernised, new substances are prepared or discovered and doping is always lessened by doping itself. In many cases even more difficult, as some countries apply this policy, the doping method, as a means of exercising state policy. And at this point, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, it is not capitalism, since the so-called 'former socialist countries' were not improper in this area. So this bill seeks to restore the credibility of sports events and restore the confidence of fans in the validity of the results and, of course, to protect the health of competing athletes. This effort is not easy, and in this area the government has received us a disappointing situation. For example, the budget figures for the ESRB are for the National Doping Combat Council, which had reached the degrading levels of EUR 50,000. Our government, as a first step, increased this budget by quadrupling it to the levels of EUR 200,000, of course, which is not satisfactory, but is a first sign, a first step in the political will to hit the doping phenomenon. I am not going to mention the consequences of the Code, the multiannual penalties for exclusion of athletes, teams and coaches, or the automatic cancellation of the performance of record and all privileges, medals, etc. I am going to turn to two provisions which are introduced, which, in my view, are of particular importance. It is about introducing the logic of co-responsibility of sports federations, where there are restrictions or even a complete cut in state funding to sports federations, where doping cases in their field exceed a certain number. We hope that in this way most sports federations will become co-responsible in dealing with the phenomenon and not as in some cases in the past they have shown at least tolerance in some of these cases and I am talking about Greece. The second important intervention by this bill is the dismissal of the disciplinary procedure by the sports federations. At least it is the primary control of the independent disciplinary committee of the ESRB, and that was necessary, as it is a joint finding for all of us, almost, that disciplinary control by the federations themselves in many cases led to penalties very light and, if necessary, is expected, when the federation itself or its organs, they must punish athletes or coaches that the federations themselves have chosen to represent the country at a high level. Apart from the Antidonping Code in the bill, however, there are other provisions on which there has been a lot of noise, without a reflection. These are provisions that solve problems, restore injustices or face malfunctions in previous years or concern issues of disabled athletes and their escorts. There have been many excesses here and in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. Some of the anti-population colleagues also came to describe them as rosphetological. I would very much ask that a rousphetological provision be indicated so that we can have a debate on the substance and not a debate on the subject. I will not go into all this. I speed up some due to time. For the first time in the Secretariat-General of Sports e-Sports, to put an end to the opacity and the methods for the allocation of state funding, so that it is known to the Greek citizens where even the last euro of taxpayers is going. Access to sports facilities shall be facilitated, at least in respect of the first category football and basketball matches. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] There are topics for the introduction of distinguished athletes to HEIs, as well as topics of rewriters of athletes, while members of boards are not persecuted for expressing their opinion, suggestion or conclusion or for acts carried out in the course of their duties, which are necessary for them to be able to act freely, provided, of course, that there is no treacherous or serious negligence from those members. It applies also to athletes from the judo and the liquid track, which were distinguished in the Baku European struggles in Azerbaijan, what is true of athletes who are distinguished at international events. Excludes the racing arch from the concept of the weapon, a provision for the irrationality of which the Archery Federation has been struggling for decades, as its representatives have told us very well this morning at the hearing of operators. The possibility of managing the Greek Football Federation is widened for both the amounts of state grant and the resources of the NGO. The reaction of its representatives to this provision of transparency at this morning's hearing was awkward. Finally, for the employer's profession, his exercise is not subject to the approval of any body other than the State licence. All these provisions, for which there has not been the slightest reaction, have nevertheless been taken as an opportunity to have an elementary criticism, because opposition has to be done. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be a minute, Madam President. All of this, although the Deputy Minister showed during the work of the committee and here too, a consensus, a consensus, a hearing and a number of proposals, as well as many proposals, made by the representative of the Potamus Mavrotas - and I have to acknowledge the attitude of this party in both the committee and here - and despite the efforts of consensus which have been made by the Minister, the mild tone, the attempt to have a debate on the substance, unfortunately, the Opposition and, above all, the New Democracy and the PASOK, does not want this. They want tensions, not to talk about fundamentally, to stay in communication. We, however, are trying to bring the debate back to the real facts, to the real dimensions, to leave the impressions that are being made about communication for both the media and to talk about the substance of the bill. What comments, then, are there on the substance here, we are all talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u193	Madam President, can I have the floor for a minute, to table something in the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u194	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u195	In my speech earlier, as a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Independence, I referred to previous statements by Mr. Kontonis' s Deputy Sportsman that this bill would be ready by November. And he questioned, if I'm not mistaken, that there are those statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u196	What you said is that it will be passed in November.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u197	It should be done by the end of November. If you want, you'll answer me. In Brussels, RES. I'm going to testify for the Practicals the Athenian News Agency post. It is from November 24th: "At the meeting of the Council of Ministers for Culture and Sport of the countries - members of the European Union in Brussels, the Deputy Minister of Sport Stavros Kontonis attended the meeting, who informed the counterparts of the positive development of the country's effort to be directly in line with the current framework of the World Anti-Doping Organisation". The meeting of the Council of Ministers was the subject of "The educational potential of sport" and Mr. Kontonis said attributes: "I inform you that the new Greek Government has already proceeded with full harmonisation of national legislation with the WADA regulations, even though it has time until March 2016", that is to say today we are voting on. "We are ready to be introduced to vote from the House of the Harmonisation Bill by the end of November..."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u198	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u199	So do not precede, Minister, for the vote. '... and I am sure that by the end of the year' - that is, 2015 - 'it will have expired formally'. I'm tabling this for the Minutes, because I can't help but wonder what time we're filing for you you have the nerve to lie at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u200	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u201	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u202	First of all, Mr Parliamentary Representation to be careful what you say about lies and enthusiasm. I'm returning to you the characterizations, because they tell you both your attitude and your political path.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u203	Mine?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u204	So the second thing I want to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u205	You're not answering. You're ignorant. Clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u206	So listen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u207	You're in defense and you're attacking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u208	So listen! If you're talking, listen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u209	Mr. Theocharopoulos, let the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u210	I said right at the Council of Ministers that we have now worked out the text that we sent to WADA, and we have been waiting for a rapid process of all this. It has been sent on several occasions by us and by the WADA for corrections, precisely because there was a very serious issue on legal terms. When I said that, I really expected that this procedure would have been completed by the end of the year. But WADA sent us this plan twice to recast legal terms, and went once again to the Ministry's external representative to speed up the process. You must recognize that as an achievement, that from the end of November the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u211	I said from the Step that you said you would vote until the end of November.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u212	So listen. Finally, we had already completed the procedure and were not just in time, but we were too early to complete the exchange of documents. That's exactly what I said, Mr. Theocharopoulos. We didn't lie or anything. We had in our hands at the end of November, after work done by the Ministry, and sent it. That is exactly what I announced at the Council meeting. We waited faster. But finally, that thing didn't happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u213	Don't apologize anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u214	Really? That we 24 November already testified to WADA the text is an apology or is it an achievement? It's an achievement! That is exactly what I said, that we have already sent out, and we already have the harmonisation text.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u215	All right, Minister. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Dendias, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I do not need to say too much about the legislation. I think that our rapporteur, Mrs Anna Karamanlis, has fully analysed the issue, but both previous speakers of the New Democracy have been present, Professor Theodoros Fortsakis and my colleague, Maria Antoniou, on the provisions. The new colleague, Mr Stylus, who also has a particular knowledge of the subject will follow. In fact, I must note that Mr Fortsakis has also tabled proposals. On urgent matters, he has come here and tabled proposals to improve the situation as a whole. This shows the positive way in which dedicated opposition is trying to contribute to legislative work. However, I can only add my voice to the unacceptable introduction of this text as an urgent one, because, in principle, the text itself, as was rightly noted by our rapporteur, could be introduced into the law of our country by ministerial decision. It has not been explained why legislation is needed here, or rather has been implied by the other provisions that go with it. As far as the other provisions are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I must say - and I am sorry to say this - that these things that are being done by the government are not serious. And I'm explaining. First of all, what has already been observed by the Parliamentary spokesman of the Central Association is that here there is a wicked or better - I beg your pardon, ladies and gentlemen, for the expression - spoonfulness. The provisions of the organization of the Ministry of Culture are introduced instead of a presidential decree, which would have been regulated by law by the Council of State. This is not that it is not legally correct - which is not - but it is a way of avoiding control of legality. And we have a government here, which declares transparency, which breaks down its garments in favour of transparency and, on the other hand, in ways which return to a parliament of a civilized country, passes provisions under the legal definition of the Council of State. It does, and more the government, which I must tell you is not serious. Do you want to tell me why the change of members of the Kathatzoglou is urgent? Do you want to tell me why it is urgent to grant sites from the Secretariat-General to supervised bodies? You want to tell me why the disgusting things - if I may say so - are urgent provisions on the mobility of employees of the General Sports Secretarys? What's the emergency? Here, then, we have to do with obvious illegality and rosphetology both of the inappropriate kind. These aren't serious things. Let me tell you something even worse that you are doing at the end: Under the - obviously - outcry followed by the committee, you are taking the provisions back. The government takes them back, because I do not like majority colleagues with the government. I want to be clear about this. I think that too many things are done in their absence, or in ignorance of their willingness to support what in their own subconsciousness is the Government of the 'first time left' and, in our view, to be honest with you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, a 'government of calamity'. So you take back the provisions concerning the Ministry of Development. Then what are you doing? Look at the explanatory statement. You leave in the explanatory memorandum the reference to the articles and the explanatory memorandum to Article 71, which deals with leases. After all, because someone is pressing you, you are presenting a parliamentary amendment - I am not going to say who is signatory to it, it is not of any importance, it is certain that they have been asked to sign it - by which means the text of the provision that was taken back to committee comes back as a parliamentary amendment, without even being the Minister - who, incidentally, is the Minister for Development, but does not matter - to sign it and accept it. Are you serious now? Are these things serious? So let me get this straight. Honestly I say to you: no man is sinister in this Chamber. No government without sin. Let's be honest. But they all have limits. Where's your limit? Where's the limit of this government, so we can understand it? You know, as a parliamentary representative, I always have to have a broader view of things. This is not the case in the space of a historical, political and real time. This is what happens, at a time when Greece is actually moving on a dry acne. Because of the government's failures in dozens of sectors, in all sectors, the country is again facing a maximum risk. We have a situation on our eastern border. Because of this government's repeated mistakes, Turkey was given the right to create further problems, even in the agreement it asked for with NATO. You may know that the German ship, which commands this power, is in Souda right now. But he couldn't do anything. Most vessels are between the islands and the mainland trunk of Greece in the Aegean Sea. The situation in Honduras, ladies and gentlemen, is an unacceptable situation. This situation is unacceptable for the constitutional rights of all people in Greece. I am the one who has been here several times, and I have told you that we need to control our borders. But that is a matter. It is unacceptable not to control our borders. It is equally unacceptable, however, that we do not have the responsibility which the Constitution recognises for people who are at our borders. It's a disgrace to Greece that thing. We have a responsibility to feed and treat these people. Let this be absolutely clear to everyone. We neither feed nor treat these people. That's what non-governmental organisations do. Does that honor our country? To be informed. The Viktoria Square image honors our country? I would also like to say something further by ending, because the National Representation is already tired: I rarely comment on what has been said since the Golden Dawn. As long as officials of the Golden Dawn are indicted, because I recognize every man's right to fight for his innocence and his freedom, I am extremely careful in my expressions. But I would like to testify to something that exists in the Minutes to have my conscience quietly. I'm extremely disturbed by the patriocape. And I'm explaining. The effort of a particular party, which has a clear ideology - its ideology is Nazi ideology - to appear as a Greek patriotic party is a shame. And because once from this Step I made a historical report and told this party that the past history of the party is General Tsolakoglu, I tell you that I was wrong. It is Pulios, Captain Pulios in Macedonia, who departed with the German troops and made Greek government abroad in Vienna. This story of the patriocalypse has to be stopped. In fact, I would ask the President of Parliament to hold a special meeting on April 6th, the day of the German invasion in Greece, and to place each party in order to finally tell us what position it has for the German invasion of Greece and what position it has for the Nazi crimes in Greece. Because you can say everything you want for the political route of Constantine Mitsotakis. They've heard everything. Constantine Mitsotakis, however, was sentenced by the Germans to death and lived by chance and no one is entitled to come here and make post-confidences about his political path, pretending that he is in the homeland. We need to be informed. There are limits. And because there are the new generations of Greeks, the children of the seventeen, eighteen, sixteen, fifteen years old who don't know history, we have a national obligation to tell them what happened and what everyone did, because in Greece there were also the dosing teams and there were philanassists and there were both their nazi friends and people who joined the Axis and left the country. And their political offspring cannot come here to raise our hand and talk about any of us's political history. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to repeat all of this, and I would ask you, very much, to ensure that legislative initiatives of this kind are not repeated. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u218	Please, Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u219	Please, Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u220	First of all, Mr. Dendias, who is here, should be ashamed. He's involved in a case. He plays it now and is serious, and he tells us "until our innocence can be proved". So when our innocence, which all of Greece knows, will prove to be the guilty secret of the Treasury, what role he played then with Samaras and Athanasios to make this whole involvement. If there is independent Greek justice, Dendias will be in a very difficult position. As far as the other issue is concerned, do not wait until 6 April to discuss it. We're telling him something to be sure. When Greece, and if Greece - which we hope will never happen - is at national risk and must be defended by some, it will be us. There may be a lot of others from other places. Well, the philosopher won't be here. He'll run to save his body and his own people, if he loves his own, and he doesn't just love himself. That's Dendias.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u221	Mr. Stylus has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u222	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what are today's data on sporting events? The Cup, which has been interrupted for a second time in the history of the country after more than forty years, incidents of violence, phenomena of infraction, championship devalued as a whole. Is there a legislative framework for this? Sure. Law 2725/99, amended on your own initiative last autumn 2015. The intentions of the Government are given and declared in the schedule statements of January 2015 and October 2015. Therefore, there is a government will. According to these announcements, the Government intends to deal with the pathogens that lead to the depreciation of Greek sport. Furthermore, the government took care to take legislative initiative last autumn and give overpower to the competent State Secretary for Sports, who can carry out the duties of the judge as well. However, the results show that the political leadership of the State Secretary for Sport is limited to the role of the observer. It monitors developments and condemns events. What initiatives are you taking? Why do the laws and policies that you have put in place do not apply? Why do you not seek cooperation and dialogue or assistance from stakeholders and specialised bodies? In addition, questions are raised: If the government has a specific strategy and plan to deal with the problems of the sports family and if it is prepared and dares to give solutions. The reality and facts prove that none of the above is available to this government. Instead, we are discussing today in plenary a bill with the urgent procedure, a very problematic procedure which, as opposition, has always denounced. I give you some details: The bill was given for consultation on January 29, 2016 and lasted until February 4. In total there were three hundred forty - one comments, about two hundred - seventy related to the archery article and twenty related to Article 23 for distinguished athletes. So you understand that there are only fifty - sixty comments left, one and two comments on each article, which concerned the remainder of the bill. It is therefore clear that there is no interest, that there is no urgency and that there is no question. What does the bill include? Is he moving on to a certain section? Is he correcting pathogens of the past? Is it an intervention and - if so - in what direction? Ladies and gentlemen, the first chapter concerns the harmonisation of Greek legislation on the fight against doping. Let me remind you that the revised provisions of the World Antidopting Code, as has been said to the relevant Commission by the State Secretary, have been in force since January 2015. So, you've had fourteen months to run the whole process. Let's say it's WADA's fault, because it was delayed and you had the best intentions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u223	I didn't say he was late. There was an exchange of views.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u224	There was a process. Accepted. It could also be done by ministerial decision, as was the case in 2012. I want to inform the House and remind you that it has happened before. In 1999, for the first time, Law 2725 was introduced, which introduced the anti-doping procedure. In 2002, under Law 3057, the specific law and specific provisions were amended. By Ministerial Decisions in May 2005, the process of dealing with the pharmacification of athletes was identified. Furthermore, in December 2006, the banned substances were defined by another Ministerial Decision. I would remind you that in December 2006 the majority of the Greek Parliament voted to ratify the international convention and thus became a state law, No.3516. Therefore, the bet from then on is to convert, convert as a country, as a state, as a Greek state, in practice, the tasks and obligations that this law dictates. So what are you doing today? Enter these provisions in the urgent procedure, in fear of the country being excluded from the next Olympic Games. However, you will accompany them with fifty other provisions which do not justify the urgency. It is simply a complex of various unrelated provisions, and under no circumstances do they attach the utmost importance to you. On the substance, no one can say that it disagrees with harmonisation. We are an organizational member as a country in the international sports organisations, we have successfully organised the 2004 Olympic Games, we are participating and certainly could say 'yes' to stricter and more regular controls, which concern war against doping and the fight against drugs. An important issue, Minister, for which there seems to be no provision, is the immunisation and autonomy of the ESRB and what its potential is. The institutional framework is therefore a given one. Can you provide him with the necessary resources to function? Is there any provision on the transparency of the ESRB? If you wanted substantial autonomy and transparent mode of operation, you could allow the members of the PSE to be designated by the Committee on Transparency. In the field of prevention, what is your policy? Why is there nothing in this piece of legislation? What initiatives should you take in cooperation with athletes, trainers, sports clubs, federations, the Ministry of Education, and the parents' associations to inform all concerned? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in Part II, we have a series of disparate provisions. So I say the sports record is done. What is the next stage since the creation and operation of an electronic sports register? What are you gonna do? You didn't tell us. In relation to black money in sport, there is the ILO, there is the Commission to Combat Corruption. The mechanisms are here, Minister. Why don't you use them? What is the use of the officials of the General Secretariat of Sports control of the federations' own resources? Have you considered a possible conflict with FIFA and UEFA? I'm just saying. You will then prove it. I could say a lot, Minister. The question is this: in a field of public policy, such as sport, where many more of us unite rather than separate us, you do not follow the path of composition, consensus and understanding. The bodies, unions, federations, even the employees at the General Secretariat of Sports, report to you about a lack of cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u225	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u226	Would you like to speak, my colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u227	After Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u228	After the next speaker. Mr. Constantine has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u229	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to say something about history. In 1922, when the Asia Minor Devastation occurred, they estimate that forty thousand Greeks went to Syria, to those who today call "migrants". History is repeated from the opposite side, and we have a duty not to become Humans. Thank you very much for that. I continue my speech with what we need to talk about today, about the bill. Today we are called upon to vote for a bill that will ensure the next day of our Greek athletes in the next Olympiad. We regret to see that the previous government artificially fragmented the financing of the ESRB. So he made it ineffective to do his work. Rehabilitation of the financing of the ESRB within the State Budget in 2015 for sport is the practical implementation of the SYRIZA's programme commitment to the reconstruction of public policy against pharmacopoeia in sport. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen! The direct incorporation in the Greek legislation of the WADA Code in 2016 is part of this direction. The institutional gap created after 2006 is thus covered. And the godfather, he was. The government with this bill continues a step forward to implement its commitments to clearance in sport. We would surely like to see stronger pedagogicism in this direction, and I hope that we will succeed. Ladies and gentlemen, with the new legislative intervention of the General Secretariat of Sports, the state is fully armored against doping phenomena, emphasising that it turns to sport towards healthy competition and not to the extreme, false championship we have known nowadays. Construction of champions cannot be a model for our children. And I enter into what we say, 'who is what we are voting on today?'. It's that we institutionalized champions without being champions. They were fake champions. In this context, Greek legislation is fully in line with the Antidopting Code of the World Federation of Antidopting. They are also responsible for sports federations in the case of pharmacization of athletes. He claims the National Council for the Combat of Doping, further safeguarding the rights of athletes. The party glasses of some colleagues, unfortunately, are viewed as rushphetologicals. Is it, then, that the recording of all sports players in the electronic register of the General Secretariat of Sports, when we talk about state reform, also about digitisation throughout the state? A reform is in sport. That's how the funding ends in unions - ghosts. Is the provision of access to sports spaces for disabled persons? Or is the question of importing distinguished athletes into higher education rally? We're not the same or we're not. Clearance in sport cannot just be a word in the air, but must be acted upon. Slowly do it. With regard to Article 48, the desire of parents who have sent their children to universities, higher public schools, to the TECA, without having to worship the NCA at the moment, is being practiced to be certified by Mr Patakis' school, giving 1 000 and 1,500 euros to become coaches. We can't identify this thing. However, we have found a way to legislate. This has had to be done for too long. At this point I would like to say, Minister, that you need to think about the thirst for changing the electoral system of sports associations, how much more soccer, as expressed by my proposal to you. In your commitment and in a public declaration today - and I am very pleased about that - to the great bill of sport in May we will also see its implementation. I'm sure you won't deny us. The need for the democratisation of sports administrations is a consistent demand for democracy itself, which we swore to serve. Put the knife on the bone. Let's get this over with the dinosaurs that break athletics and more soccer. Make them sit at the same table and decide unanimously. We have a duty to tell them to go home and not us. It is our moral duty to those who brought us here and me personally you will find me in favour of this moral duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u230	Thank you. Mrs Bakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said before. Let me comment, leaving for a while on the main theme of the debate. With the neo-nazi deliriums of offenders, who divide people into those who flow Greek blood in their veins and in people who are blackmailing and smashing Parliament's honour, I despise to deal with it. Unfortunately, there are other shades of counterpopulation, which stumbles between a travesty of opposition and a vulgarity. And I would like to explain that at the moment there is a critical meeting. By making a micro-political exploitation, a small-party exploitation of the refugee, in the interests of opposition from the government, all you can do is weaken the country in the face of a critical summit which imposes and imposes a national strategy. You're talking to us and you're swinging our finger on Idomeni. Irrespectively Savages! You visited Idiom and colleagues of the Democratic Alliance and of the New Democracy recently and you have done very well. Good for you! Instead of plucking into the muds of micropoliticalism, it is good to abandon, not the government, but those with their policies and actions have fixed barriers, have closed borders - and it is not the Greek Government - and they have let children be born in the twenty-first century in the muds, are letting people sleep in the muds. They should be forsaken. What have you been doing all these years? How did you manage a problem that was before the gates and that would act with mathematical accuracy? How did you manage not despair flows, but infinitely, in relation to those that came to the country? Apart from the budget, the sessions and the policies, there is something called a worthwhile framework. What a worthwhile framework have you cultivated and unfortunately rooted in society in previous years? Mr Theocharopoulos asked us how now we, the 'Cypros - Kammenes', are going to go together on the issue of refugees? The answer is as we went so far. The way of interpreting and administering such issues by governments is a spirit of morality, attitudes, attitudes and behaviour. The pogroms of immigrants, the concentration camps, the Amygdales, the impasses from the tortures in police stations, which humiliated us and made the round of the world, you know it was not our work, of the Ethnolian "Chipro - Kammens". The opposition, for the sake of opposition, finally ends up closing the eye wickedly and in policies that are currently putting on the right-wing Lion, closing borders and deciding to lower the switch of the lights of the Europe of Enlightenment and plunging it into the dark. They close the eye wickedly in policies that deal with these people, which the war ruptured as sacrificers and consumables, unless you want us to start rotting through pregnant women or children who drowned in the torrents in Idomen. Is that what you want? Let me now say a few words on the draft law to be passed. First of all, we must say that this is the first time the law on combating and combating violence in sport has been fully implemented. We obviously don't have magical solutions and the magic wand. But it is the first time that such phenomena have been dealt with. Also, with regard to the urgency that has been heard so much and so much reproach and objections have been raised, the deadline for integrating the Anti-Doping Code, according to WADA, expires on 18 March. How many more times do we have to say it? The World Code of Antidopting was adopted for the first time in 2003. It entered into force on 1 January 2009, and in 2013 revisions were made as of 1 January 2015 by the founding Council of the World Antidopting Organization by WADA. Greece has been able to harmonise its anti-doping legislative framework with the World Organisation Code since 2013. However, the PASOK-New Democracy coup d'état did not do the right thing. Indeed, as previous speaker said, it has reduced the 2015 budget of the ESRB, the National Doping Combat Council, to the EUR 50,000 of the EUR 200,000 that was in 2014. The result is the impossibility of proper functioning of the ESRB, with samplers, who in some sports are going on in two or four months' walks. This changed with the current government because the ESRB was financially strengthened, the National Doping Combat Council, and its budget of EUR 50,000 reached EUR 200,000. In this way, then, the international permeability of the country was avoided, as it was certain that we would have the expulsion of the ETUC from the international organisation and we would not have, that is, a certified body that would have the doping control over Greece. By harmonising the Greek legislation with the World Antidopting Code, the disciplinary authority in cases of breaches will now have the disciplinary authority of the ESRB, rather than the national sports federations, which are called to punish athletes and coaches who themselves had chosen as leading athletes, and thus, there have been instances of acquittal of athletes or the imposition of relatively light disciplinary penalties to a first degree. So the removal of the primary disciplinary body from the national sports federations and the establishment of the independent primary disciplinary committee within the ETUC is an important part of the World Code of Antidopting. The regulations introduced in the second part of the bill are also positive, such as the provision by which privileges are withdrawn to athletes who have been sentenced to a doping infringement. The paradox of athletes, who violate the anti-doping rules, is being elected to continue enjoying privileges. A lot has been said here about rosphetological arrangements. Let us ask the following question: The creation of a Registry of Sports Bodies in the General Secretariat of Sports, the expansion of the auditing board in the Hellenic Football Federation, and the article extending the possibility for the Court of Auditors of the General Secretariat of Sports to carry out management and audits in the SOS are rhetorical? It is well known that the Court of Auditors' institution, before it was reconstructed by that government, had fallen into disuse. It is well known that huge funds were being channelled to the federations without any effective control. This has changed for everyone too, which has enjoyed a special control regime. Is the operation of an electronic Sports Operators Register at the General Secretariat of Sports? This register will record specific elements of the body concerned, such as economic data, which will contribute to the more transparent management of State grants. This is a tool of transparency, proper distribution of state resources, an area in which there was a legislative vacuum, and the political will was obviously absent. Finally, it is worth emphasising the provisions for disabled athletes. Is it rhysphetological, too? The access of people with motor problems to sports spaces, where national football and basketball championships are held, is Rusfetology? Article 32 extends to all accompanying athletes with special needs for financial reward if they note the statutory discrimination in the competition. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. Article 31 also extends the cases of sporting events with the participation which may henceforth be granted a licence with remuneration from the public and public sector operator in which they work. From now on this possibility is given for the participation of the Paralympic Games, the Olympics of the Deaf and the Chess Olympiad. Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill, in addition to the divisions introduced into national legislation through the World Code of Antidopting, there are issues of great importance and, in practice, transparency is promoted in the financing of sports bodies, the proper distribution of state resources, the strengthening of the country's sports foreign policy, as well as equality, equal treatment of disabled athletes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Now Mr. Emmanoulidis has the floor. Do you want to precede, Mr. Paphie?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u233	It's all right, Madam President. Let the honourable Member take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u234	Here, Mr Emmanuelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u235	Thank you, Madam President. After the high political flight of our parliamentary representative, I have to land and run into the field of the bill under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, on 4 May 2015, in my position from the Step of the House on the 'Fight against Violence in Sport' bill, I stressed: When a bill, ladies and gentlemen, has been charged with the principles of general will, that is, expresses what society itself proposes through its accumulated experience and when the process is done through open dialogue, the results actually promote parliamentaryism and society. Violence in the field of sport, admittedly, is one of the hardest parts of society and we are therefore invited to respond. All the articles of the bill really aim in this direction, namely to heal a pathogen of society that its manifestation hurts the entire social body. Aimed were chosen in the bill some enclaves that reproduce and feed up the violence. It is the degraded, daring thing to say, the function of the organizing authority, the ETUC, which, in many sins, I have been stumbling, has fortunately tried to keep the last card of figurativeness. In fact, the slip on its part was to seek support from non-constitutional - I insist on extra-constitutional - to supreme, internationally accountable for the violation of the legality of organisations, FIFA and UEFA in this regard. I concluded with this: we have the firm intention of restoring legality and regularity, and this is what we are curing with this bill. Today, ten months later, the government, with the debated bill "Need arrangements for harmonising Greek legislation with the new Antidopting Code of the World Organisation and other provisions", comes to face a equally subcutaneous wound to sport, a misguided wound that consumes the body of sport and unfortunately also the athletes and society. The ever increasing use of pharmacopoeia is dictated by the unprecedented commercialisation of sport, commercialisation which goes far away from the principles that he should defend. The draft law implements the necessary harmonisation of national anti-drugs legislation with the international framework for combating doping, as defined by the World Federation of Anti-dopting WADA. The aim of the bill, in this regard, is to tighten the penalties and extend the blockades, ensure the principle of proportionality and respect for the rights of athletes, strengthen the arsenal to identify and combat pharmacopoeia, expressly define the responsibility of sports operators other than athletes, coaches, national federations, etc. - in cases of identification of pharmacological stimulation practices. The participation of teams and athletes of atomic sports in international sports organisations prerequisites for harmonising the framework for pharmacology in all countries whose athletes participate in them. In Greece, a body responsible for combating drugs in sport is the National Anti-Doping Council, the USSR. It performs the anti-doping checks in the country through accredited samplers, while the samples are analysed in the WADA accredited via the NSA - National Accreditation System - OASA Anti-Dong Lab. With regard to the structure of the bill, the bill includes two parts. The first part concerns the incorporation of the Antidopting Code into national legislation. The second part relates to other provisions relating to sport. Indicatively, the issues approached concern, inter alia, the lifting of the privileges of distinguished athletes who have been sentenced for drug abuses, the creation of a Registry of Sports Bodies in the General Secretariat of Sports, the access of persons with movement problems in sports facilities, the introduction of distinguished athletes to higher education, and the issues of organisational and administrative structure of the General Secretariat of Sports. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law being discussed and passed, the government is attempting to elevate the ethos, to focus on the 'fighting' with honesty, to stimulate excellence, to form a structured personality, to respect the individual effort of the participants, collectiveness and solidarity, and above all to safeguard the most valuable good, namely the health of the athletes. The government, based on the principle of legality and regularity in the field of sport, comes by voting on the bill to heal society from the scourge of doping. This bill, following the previous anti-violence in sport, leaves the left footprint of our Government in sport and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u236	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u237	I did not mean to speak because our rapporteur, Giannis Giokas, was placed in detail, in particular, balanced, on all issues relating to the bill. I do not want to repeat that you could bring the 22-23 articles, have a two-hour debate and come with another bill after a detailed discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u238	Then you would tell us, Mr Pafile, that this is a bill of 'quark', while the constant tactic is to have 'other provisions' in a central bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u239	What we'd say about whether it's a haircut or not, let it be us and don't assume it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u240	I'm telling you what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u241	We tell you that you could bring this bill, of which we are voting on all the articles and end the debate within an hour. Then you could make more provisions and come and have a detailed discussion. You didn't do it, but you came here like that, and I was urgent. You put it all together. Okay. We have an experience now. I'm just going to start telling you what you guys were talking about all this when New Democracy and PASOK did it. Anyway, I'm saying we've been placed in detail. What is our difference, however, here with all of you and with you, despite your declarations of great merchandise and others? The question is one. What's sport? Is this a commodity or a right of the people? This is where the parties are separated. The rest is hypocrisy. So we say it's right. Therefore, the State must be publicly and free of charge and there must be no commercialisation. There's a lot to be said. For example, one colleague said earlier about great commercialisation. So if she's young? How are we supposed to count her, in the middle of the line? Or will it be a commodity, a profit and speculation item, which means that it will be in the hands of those who possess wealth? Well, don't you see what's going on around the world today? Don't you see what trillion dance is around the so-called sport that destroys athletes at the same time? Don't you see that new talent children are being sacrificed, people all over the world on the altar of profit, and they're getting disabled? Can you not see that sport is cultivated, as is rightly said by sport, championship? What's the counterweight? It's popular sport. What's the counterweight? Not the profit, but the speech. That's our big difference. And whoever believes that he can exalt and do differently this capitalist system that works like this and that has now reached unconscious levels - and I wonder sometimes, you don't know what the reality is everywhere, what happens every day, what happens around this sport, you know it, and yet you support it - the least is naive and most is that consciously cultivates delusionally and mock the world. Truly, why do people also see us - the people: What does this state provide them? They pay everywhere to get their kids to football, basketball, to the track. Is there anything that this state can give them, which is licking people into taxation? What does it provide people, working families, talents, children who can and work? What's he giving them? Nothing! All in money, less or more. And it's not 15 euros. The subscription may be EUR 15. And what means even these various clubs provide them. What do they give them? We have experience of this, because we have children and we know what is going on, as the whole world is seeing us right now. So what does this state give them? What's he telling them? He says: Or you'll have money and you'll pay, you'll even be able to deprive your child of basic sport and engage in some sport or let it be what it is, we don't care. This is the cynicism of this system. And what do you do - I'm saying more generally now - is that what I'm talking about? What do you think can be done? Nothing really. You're saying we're going to take some measures, we're going to cut one and the other. But is it possible, when monopolies dominate, that the big business groups - and I am not just talking about football - are all about this incredible area of companies with their unscrupulous profits - that you turn or beat the violence? Since they have armies and international even not only locals and are associated with too many things. That is why we say that it is inappropriate for us to take measures. We are also making proposals and working in this direction and working with institutions. However, to have radical changes, we cannot have this system, no matter how insistent. Since discussions on socialism have been held, to say something younger people may not know about it, but the red flag with the hammerhead was always up in all the Olympic Games. And there was no sport like that. There were millions of people running around. In these countries still - which people do not know - infrastructure unites socialism. Nothing the new capitalists make, they tear them down, and everything they've built, they're tearing them down, they're selling them at the price of opportunity. Everything they still have, ever since, they've had it. And no one can question it. Were there any such problems? Of course, there were, they showed up. Why did they show up? They appeared when socialism began to violate its principles and began to borrow from capitalism and enter into market and competition logic. That's what the JRC says. As long as he didn't have these, there were no such phenomena. And because these phenomena are excited, because oak pesos - says - you are a man is being shaved, because then the Americans and all your friends today and the whole brilliant and moral capitalist world didn't report them, did not take tests to make the Soviet Union and the German People's Republic out, which were first - second, usually in the Olympic Games? There were such phenomena when socialism began to violate its principles. But this magnificence that has existed in these countries is recognized even by fanatical opponents. Everything was public and free, like stadiums, sports spaces. Comparing what? Can one compare the most developed capitalist country in this area with the socialist countries? What kind of infrastructure did they have, how many people worked in this area, and what happened from the children to the old, the old, the old, that is? It gave them all this socialist state, and within a world that had a tough, powerful competition, which was in danger of leading to the destruction of humanity. That is to know, because what I'm saying is that the story is not only falsified in other areas - which I will say below, at the end - but also in them. The refugee issue has been raised. Let's see here now and make an account in the Chamber. Who's to blame? Who had surgery all over the area? Isn't the European Union? All of you did not ask for the European Union to intervene before the war broke out to leave the anti-democratic regime in Assad? We do not agree, but it is an account and an obligation of the Syrian people. Who appointed the slaughterers of humanity, which is the European Union and NATO, to decide what each people will do? Who gave them that right? Didn't you all say "Arab Spring", except for the JRC? We said he'd come in winter ugly. Didn't you all support all this? What was all this? And now you're complaining! Yes, it is now a two-party fight! Now we're going to make an account, Mr. Teddy! I didn't understand, so are you against NATO?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u242	What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u243	When you were a government, did you go to Libya? Did you send anything they asked for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u244	What did we send?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u245	Of course, you and PASOK were when the surgery took place. Greek ship outside Libya. That was the mission. There's been a division. Did you ever report any surgery? You could barely applaud her as a government! Have you differentiated between the decisions of the European Union that gave weapons to those who are slaughtering and pulling hearts, as I have said before, and everything else, namely ISIS? I never heard you report anything! Then what are you yelling at? If you were government, you'd handle it a little better. So what would you do? Would you put wires in the sea?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u246	Hey, we'd do something!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u247	Yes, they would do you a favor because you'd be more theirs! But here it turns out that SYRIZA is beyond you, because now we have Natonic Left! We had a European capitalist, now we have a Navy Left, and even with celebrations! Long live NATO coming down to the Aegean! Who? NATO? Didn't you know what Turkey would do? You didn't know them? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, please give me two more minutes. I won't answer. So all this fight is a family fight in general. It has nothing to do with interests. You are quarreling who will best serve this policy of the European Union, with which we have reached this point. And what are you all asking for now? To implement the decisions of the European Union. Isn't that what you're asking? And the government and the opposition. Just now the opposition is going out on the tiles and says 'I'd do better to implement them'. What are the decisions of the European Union? Well, let's see. Are they leading to the caging of refugees in Greece? Yes or no? So we can come in later. What exactly does the European Union say? Firstly, it does not recognise the Geneva Convention. Do you all know that? What does the Geneva Convention say? Whoever is a refugee and whoever is entitled to asylum goes to any country he wants. Yes or no? Where he asks to go, for example in Germany, there to go. The European Union says no, here and now sorting. Why does he want the sorting? I'm going to say it a little hard now, because that's the way it is! As the horses and animals were selected from teeth, so the German industrialists and the others want to choose who to take. And that's what they did! And they asked for at least eight thousand for Germany and for other countries and told you to go to Greece, that's where we'll be sorting who we'll get and then we'll put other terms. Where and how far has anyone who signed the Geneva Convention has to say that Syria, which is from Homs, of course, a refugee and who is from Damascus, is not? Where does that come from? Or that the Afghan is not, when his country is in possession essentially. There's been a war for too many years, over ten, fifteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u248	You're putting Russia in too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u249	If you want, I'll put Russia in. So when Russia went to Afghanistan, the bullies fell, the women ministers came in, took the children to school and the infrastructure projects that still exist, they did. And it was the Soviet Union, it wasn't Russia, if you want to know. When your Talibans went, supported by you and the United States of America, they brought the junk, the darkness, the beheads and all the rest. It's your constructions, it's your system, not what we had. Don't laugh, because the pear has the tail behind it, and it's big - you know - and it'll be popular, because it accumulates experience in the world and don't talk yet. So, let's see, he's breaking these conditions? Has the European Union said that the Balkan corridor is closing? I would ask you, and if the Greek people could hear it if the European Union could say 'opened the border' in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and not do so. Tell me. Go out and tell the world. When he wants to level a country, he does it in no time, and everyone agrees. If, then, he wanted to open the borders, he had a thousand ways to press and enforce the opening of the borders. So why are you protesting? Third theme: Non-governmental organisations. We have another hypocrisy here. The only ones who have been against the principle of non-governmental organisations, which are an invention of the European Union and, secondly, the Americans, were us. And you were all accusing us - presiding the coalition at the time, because then it became SYRIZA - that we are retarded. What were the NGOs? First of all, it wasn't a NGO. "M" must be gone. It was a 'Russian'. It was a tool of government, so that they could dismantle the traditional structure of the mass movement, trade unions, rural associations, professionals and so on, and can spend money there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u250	Mr. Paphie, we've been in 15 minutes and it's not the bill on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u251	Everyone spoke and I wouldn't talk at all. Did you see? Last I asked for the floor. Why are you protesting? Who finances NGOs? Is that not the European Union? You, when you were government and you are now, why are you protesting? They finance them - and bravely indeed - and they don't apologize to anyone. The programs also build political programs, beyond the role they play. We have reported them on several occasions. So now, why are you yelling? What do we say? There must be no NGOs. To take responsibility for the management of the refugee everywhere. And say a word. They're volunteers, he says. Of course, there are people who are volunteers and are touching, but volunteering with 2,000 and 3,000 euros a month is not called volunteering. It's something different and it's on a large scale. So the European Union itself, in which you are pilgrimizing and demanding to solve the problems, rather than saying 'discipline in Schengen, indignation in Dublin II' and to make proposals, which we have made. To conclude, we have heard racist speech and hatred again. Darkness. How many blood groups are there? Are they different in people, regardless of color, race, nation, whatever you want to say? They're the same, aren't they? Here we heard Hitler in a new version. Subjugated, stabbed, knived killers. Hate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u252	Who are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u253	Hate. Hate. Hate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u254	You're telling us about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u255	There's no dialogue here, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u256	Hate. Hate. From your parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u257	Hate for you, fascist, comedy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u258	Hate. Sit down now, let's go! Do we have racist?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u259	You sit down. Be careful who you're talking about. Criminals. Come on! Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u260	Come on, whitlers, who were chasing and stabbing skeletons of people who were selling protection throughout Saint Panteleimon. You're talking on top? Asta. Sit down. I'll see you around. I'll see you around.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u261	Mr. Paphie...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u262	How do people split up? How do people split up? People are divided into exploiters and exploiters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u263	Let it finish. You, when you talk, no one interrupts you. Finish it, Mr. Paphie. It's too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u264	I don't understand, they're gonna point us to what we're gonna say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u265	No, I'm just saying finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u266	What are you doing up there? Break him down, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u267	So I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u268	Fascist?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u269	Why are you? You just don't say it. Afraid. Say it. If you've all got pictures of champagne crosses and Hitler! [[Hall noise from the Golden Dawn wing]] So I say don't scratch any more and don't pretend to be nationalists. Go out and tell your opinion here, so people can judge you what you believe! Don't pretend to be nationalists.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u270	We're proud of who we are. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u271	You are proud of the battalists, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u272	We are proud, because we are nationalists. Be ashamed of yourself to be communists!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u273	Heights! Glory and honor to the Hippies and the Tatars. So I keep going. How do people split up? We're split into two. To exploiters and exploiters. Those who go to separate them with color, religion and race, regardless of the peculiarities and peculiarities, do so to serve capitalist barbarism. Sixty-five people have half the world’s GDP. What are they? All nationalities. So here's why they're splitting up like this. In fact, "you have no right", he says, "to talk about national issues". Who is it? Who? Those who say 'price to the partners of the Germans'. Isn't that the motto? "Glory and honor to the Hippies and Tatars." These were the collaborators of the Germans hanging Greeks who wrote in the bulletin "losses to German soldiers". To them. And they say we don't have the right to talk. Who? Those who support the junta, which led to the division of Cyprus and the occupation of 40% by Turkey. That part played. So the Greek people are not trapped. Once, when we were immigrants and refugees, they wrote in the countries that admire, for example in Germany and the United States of America: "It is forbidden to enter dogs and Greeks." That's what they wrote. And that's why the Greek people must open their eyes, realize they're unhappy people - of course other games are played - to see who the opponent is. It's the chapter. It can't be that in countries that are too rich, people can be miserable. They have oil, they have natural sources, and they hide it and they try to sow hatred against the peoples. No, the people have common enemies. It's imperialism, it's a capitalist system and united, they have to fight it. The Greek people have proved historically and proved it daily, despite difficulties and problems, that they are a people moving in this direction, which has such traditions and not traditions of darkness and hatred.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u274	The meeting is concluded with the Minister, who has ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u275	No, I don't have ten. I have more, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u276	Why, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u277	Because I have thirteen. I see the bulletin you shared.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u278	Excuse me. You have the floor for thirteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been heard this evening, and despite the fact that the government in the bill under discussion has given the committee writing samples that we are asking for opinions, proposals and even constructive disagreements, we have dealt with designations and insults here. Ladies and gentlemen, to put things in order. The previous government, New Democracy - PASOK, has known the country's obligation since 2013 to align itself with the WADA Code and also knew the code. Since 2013! So 2013 also passes in 2014. He even knows something else, that this code will now be applied from 1-1-2015. It is also going through January 2015 and the very competent and labour representatives of the New Democracy Government - PASOK for almost two years do absolutely nothing about what is called harmonisation. Nothing. And they are blaming the government today, because it has brought this bill and why it has been brought in by the urgency procedure. So what did we do? In February 2015, as soon as we took over, we were informed by the President of the ESRB of two very serious things. The first is that there is this process and the Greek Government is doing absolutely nothing, has left it completely. The second is that the financing of the ESKAN for two consecutive years was in the 50,000 euros, which meant that the PSE had now deposited the weapons. There were guys. So I, ladies and gentlemen, will not tell you that you are lazy, nor that you are incompetent. You are very capable, because you were serving a project, and this plan was to destroy and shut down the PSE. That is why you have not harmonized the Greek legislation with the WADA Code for two years now, and that is why you abandoned the PSE without funding. That was your plan. If we did not take the lead, the PSE would have closed down. They told you very well today and the representatives of the Hellenic Olympic Committee and the representative of the ESKAN and you are doing that you do not understand and move our fingers, those of us who have been involved at the first moment and have saved the country entering the red zone, as they were seven countries. We are in the orange zone because we were immediately involved in the WADA system of surveillance. These are the achievements of the New Democracy and the PASOK. And not only that, but since the end of November we have been ready with the text, which is, of course, the fact that it has been delayed, because there has been this disputes, conditions and so forth. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Do not hide behind an objective difficulty, which we have received and resolved, so that the country will normally take part in all international Olympic events first and foremost. We could do something else, say that we are not bringing this into urgent procedure, but we are making a request that we have already made to WADA, to tell them that we are ready and we are introducing it to vote and to wait - look - on the 18, 19 and 20, which the board is meeting, to decide whether it is giving us an extension. What if he didn't give it to us and the deadline had passed? Then you should report us. Then you should come here and file a complaint with us. So we did what we had to do within the deadline, contrary to other countries, which are currently playing crowns - letters of participation in the international Olympic movement. So instead of commending us, you come here and tell us the charges. You address designations that are slanderous and do not account for what your responsibilities are. Why have you been late so long? Here I am impressed by something else about the New Democracy and the PASOK. Instead of saying that we vote in principle on the bill and we do not vote on any articles from the second part, we do not vote here. So if you were a majority, would you leave the country outside the Olympic Games?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u280	We'd make it a ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u281	You'll hear about the ministerial decision. Is that your responsibility or your only stress is to fail this government and your only salvation is to demonstrate this failure? We're not gonna do you a favor. All the commitments we have made towards the Greek people and the sporting community in this case will be brought to an end, as we do tonight by harmonising, in the short term and by law. As far as the other provisions are concerned, you have heard the institutions today. They wanted more, more. Why didn't you tell them there, tell them, we disagree with the regulation of the issues of the paralympics, the deaf, the Federation of Archery, the chess, the register. Why didn't you tell them that? Why didn't you tell them where they were front, but you're keeping them for a little later? Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a few things that I honestly say to you that I am unaware of. And the New Democracy rapporteur has said so now: why did we not bring this harmonisation with a ministerial decision. First and foremost, this is a law modification. This amendment cannot be made by ministerial decision, it is done by law. But you're taking us down to urgent. This debate is, however, taking place with urgency. With the ministerial decision, what kind of conversation would you have had? None!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u282	He didn't have to harmonize. To harmonize what would you do? Would you say no?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u283	That's the essence of the case. You tell us that this debate would not have happened, because the ministerial decision would have been made. How nice! On the one hand, the urgent procedure, on the other hand, is to be adopted by a ministerial decision when a law is amended. And a second. Ladies and gentlemen, the deadlines can indeed be shortened and there can be a pressure. We have all decided today, and you have also voted, that the debate should be limited to the sitting this evening. If you really were in the mood for further debate, you should not suggest it, and you should have been the first to come in tomorrow to discuss a few issues with a greater comfort of time. Where will your hypocrisy and populism arrive? How far will it go? And you're telling us something else that the only emergency provisions would be justified if it were for immigration. That is to say, relevant provisions with the exercise of public authority described in these regulations by the Ministry of Culture and Sport - absolutely relevant - you believe them to be wrongly introduced for discussion, but you would like there to be rules on immigration, which - obviously - are more relevant to culture and sport than the provisions that are being discussed. What can I say? What can I say? Ladies and gentlemen, for us, for the government, as I have pointed out in committee, the treatment of doping is a matter of principle, first and foremost, because it protects the health of athletes and puts them all before their responsibilities, but it also protects the credibility of the fighters and champions, who are clearly distinguished and received medals in the struggles. That is why, from the outset, we have dealt with the matter. We have not let one day pass lost, and today the country can proudly be one of the first countries, if it is not the first, to keep the timetables. You have referred a great deal to the issue of archery. I mean, the government solved an issue of twenty-three years. The President of the Federation told you so. Twenty-three years old! Why didn't you solve these issues? You've been ruling for so many years. You are now coming to tell us about the second paragraph, that it creates a question mark. I tell you, as I have said to the President of the Federation, that their opinion will be requested when the joint ministerial decisions are adopted, that account will be taken of what they will tell us and there is no cancellation of the legislative initiative, as you claim. On the one hand, we solve a problem of twenty-three years for which the President of the Federation praised us. On the other hand, we are trying to protect everyone in terms of the possible intentions of some wicked people to exploit this possibility and to circumvent it, to mislead the law. Ladies and gentlemen, doping is indeed in line with the commercialisation of sport. That's a fact. However, I would like to say by addressing the Parliamentary Representative and the KIC rapporteur that this phenomenon of pharmacopoeia has also been encountered in other societies, of the Eastern Coalition, which were then said to be socialist societies. It is true that there was crowded mass sport, but next to this sport there was doping. [[At this point, the closing bell of the Secretary-General's speech hits the warning bell.]] I need some more time, Madam President. Do you know that even today there are world and Olympic records of East German sports, which have been the lever of East German championship, even today, and that there have been records that have fallen in recent years? They've been keeping since the 1970s.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u284	And what do you mean by that? You're all coming back to it all the time. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u285	I mean, this phenomenon...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u286	Do you cancel everything else?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u287	I'm not canceling anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u288	Then why do you say so?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u289	I said there was massive popular sport. But next to that, there was this pathogen. Do not close your eyes to these phenomena, the absolute negative of these societies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u290	You didn't hear what Mr. Pafilis or Mr. Giokas said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u291	Yeah, yeah. All right, all right. We heard them before. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received a criticism of Rule 38. I would like to say that you read half the article and do not take into account the explanatory statement. I told you and I'm telling you again. It's the article. Where there is maliciousness, where there is a fraudulent, he is punished. There's a possibility of a crime. A member of a committee cannot, however, be checked for his quasi-judicial judgment as a judge cannot be inspected for an unjust or bad decision. We're not doing a favor to anyone. We guard these people from accomplishing their duties without fear. Because that's been happening all these years. You're suing me for your good morning, everyone's getting a hit. These people were being drawn to justice for five and six years under the rule of law. So that is what we are trying to do, strengthen these control mechanisms and be the state officials quiet that they are not going to find themselves at a bad point. Ladies and gentlemen, what gave me a special impression is that some rapporteurs, speakers and parliamentary representatives do not know that the electronic ticket has been implemented since the sports year we are in. Some, as regards this provision in the draft law, thought that it was an extension for the electronic ticket. Such inconsistency can't justify it. You will ask me: Are you happy with its operation? To a large extent, the online ticket has rendered. And it's said by the teams themselves, it's said by everybody. He hasn't given up to the extent we want. And that is why we are strengthening this process and these control mechanisms by means of this provision, precisely because we want further support and we will not get mocked if we see that there is the slightest problem in the arrangements that we have voted on, that we will come back to strengthen them. With regard to Article 29, ladies and gentlemen, we do not repeal any national sports planning councils. And we do not abolish it because it has never been formed. We are abolishing a provision which has remained inactive since 1999. When you see that a provision has not gone ahead since 1999, nothing has happened, what does that mean? It means that it was a wrong provision, which must be abolished. And you are criticising us because we are abolishing something that has never been created and at the same time accuse us of being legally constituted - and this is provided for in the '99s Act - the Committee on International Sports Relations. But at last, stabilize somewhere! If you are accusing us of abolishing a council which has never been formed, why do you blame us for being legally constituted by an instrument whose formation was imprinted in the law in a distorted way? And it is a necessary instrument for international relations, with the participation of a senior official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What I would like to say is that a question has been raised and an opinion has been formulated that, despite the fact that we voted against the law against violence, there is violence in the field. And that's right. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us not go to Moses' 'immunition', which is still murder, - let us not go so far - nor to 'the steal' - Moses should be the most unhappy man in the world - but let us go to what has been done in Western Europe. Do you think a five-month application of the law should have solved the problem? Please tell me very much, I would like to hear it. Because you mentioned Margaret Thatcher's example, you should know that there the Federation has been deporting the English groups for five years, at the government's command, because that is where the government cooperates with the Federation and the Federation listens to the government - she was at least listening to it at the time. And you want phenomena that have been manned in your days, in the days of the New Democracy and PASOK, which at their root have the client state and your relationships, the relations of your parties with the great businessmen and the host armies, which have ensured you a political long-term policy, to be eliminated in five months! Is that your demand from the government? We promised you something and we kept it. Contrary to you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, who have been legislating in such a way that you have insulted the parliamentary procedure and left the laws in drawers, we have implemented it from the first moment and apply it in justice and equality. That's why you see these reactions. That's why you see the host armies uniting against the law, because they know their days are over, as the days of interacting in sport end. You asked us...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u292	Minister, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u293	Madam President, I should like to end by answering my colleagues because their questions cannot be misled. You mentioned in your positions that we have been making a reversal since May when we voted for the law, that the disciplinary bodies of the PSE are formed by a decision of the PSE, not the government, and that is where regular judges do not co-operate. This is the WADA code we do. Do you want to tell WADA that we don't agree and come out of the Olympic movement? We believe that this procedure is inappropriate. We think it's inappropriate. And if we imposed regular judges - which you did not vote on in May - and you even asked for a roll-call vote, you remember that - we did so because there was a problem with the disciplinary and judicial bodies of the EU until they were served by regular judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u294	You came to our place, that is, a year later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u295	So that's the reality. If you want to recommend that we do not accept this provision of the WADA Code, which automatically puts us out of the Olympic movement, tell us. As far as the register is concerned, why is it that warmth, ladies and gentlemen, so that the register does not go any further? The register shall fully reflect the situation of sports clubs recognised by the General Secretariat. Are you getting tired, Mr. Teddy? I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u296	I'm complaining about your irresponsible chatter, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u297	Really? About the slandering of yours, about rouspheutics...?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u298	Twenty-two minutes isn't even the Prime Minister here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u299	Yes, you will, Mr. Teddy. Because you guys have been lying and slandering for so long. Let go, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u300	You're undisturbed, unbelievable narcissism. Leave the characterizations at night, the pheasies you say. Do you think anyone's dealing with what you're saying? Finish, we're just begging you to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u301	I don't make designations. I'm talking to you with arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u302	Finish it, nothing else! We beg you to finish your irresponsible chatter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u303	If you'd like to hear. I tolerated you slandering and merciful.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u304	No one spent his time except you. Narcissism and chatter have limits! And the limits are set by the Rules of Procedure! You've got thirteen minutes and you've already been talking twenty-three!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u305	You see that lies are over, Mr. Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u306	Say what you want us to do. Nobody pays any attention to what you say. Do you understand? We are completely indifferent. Just get it over with!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u307	We will finish and you will hear and hear what lies the Greek people have lied about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u308	All right, the Greek people are waiting for you at night! Manchester - Liverpool sees the Greek people. Is he dealing with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u309	So the register, ladies and gentlemen, which you do not want to go forward, will capture the client state and unions - 'Stamp', which was your electoral clientele and which you have been funding for thirty years. That's why you don't want these things to go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u310	A year and a half, why didn't you bring it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u311	We brought it right now, as soon as we completed the process of setting up, how it will be done and what it will be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u312	Mr. Contonis, you'll be done in half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u313	Because this is how the state will know what those unions that are active and which unions must be financed by the tax and the laxity of the Greek people and not the unions - 'Stamps' that you have had and you have mocked and financed. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dendias said in his speech that the provision on the mobility of civil servants is a rhetorical provision. And I ask why this provision is characterised by the need for workers themselves, and when we try to make use of a workforce, which can be abundant and, somewhere, necessary? And the last thing I want to say is this. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous government had left the sport sector of the Ministry of Culture and Sport without an administrative or even a department without an economic management or even a department. In other words, it was a service without a left and right hand. The administrative agency restored it in May with the bill that we brought in and the relevant provision, and today we restore the financial service, so that all the services of the Ministry of Culture and Sport can operate in a legitimate and perfectly proper manner. We are proud of this bill, its vote and of the country's long-term harmonisation with international prisoners. We are proud, unlike you, PASOK and New Democracy, that you led the country to the rocks. And that is what the Greek people have understood since tonight's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u314	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u315	Madam President, please speak. Aren't we gonna get second?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u316	No, Mr. Comrade. What can we say? Mercy! Now I've said it. Is it something so important that you say that this overturn must be done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u317	It's an answer for the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u318	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u319	Because you have accused us of being unrelated, because we talked about the online ticket, I would like to ask the following: if the online ticket applies to all the places where it was planned, why should this provision come again, that is forbidden from 2016-2017?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u320	It's improving for some mechanisms, which will apply from the next sports year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u321	Improving means that something is wrong and we need to improve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u322	Some omissions that we identified during the implementation of the measure, we correct them and equip them in an even better way. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u323	Secondly, I would like to point out that it is the ETUC, not the ETUC that you are continuing to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u324	Yeah, it's the S.H.I.E.L.D. I was wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u325	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u326	You have the floor, Mrs Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u327	I would like to reply briefly to the Minister: it is true that by Ministerial decision you could not put the country at risk and bring it at the very last minute. Secondly, I asked you from yesterday if you have a WADA document saying that it calls for the harmonisation of Greek legislation by 18 March and you said that you had it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u328	I showed you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u329	Wait a minute. I told you to testify to me and you said 'I'll testify to you.'
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u330	Yesterday, didn't we give it to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u331	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u332	It's on the service...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u333	Oh, no. I will testify for my Minutes where it seems that I have requested it and so far it has not been submitted to us. You also told us that we accused you of tabling many amendments. No such pressure has been put on you. We have asked you whether you will be accepting amendments, because the bill comes in the form of urgency and we want to know that. So I also reply to the newspaper 'SYNEI', and I will submit all the Commission's minutes, as to whether I have said about changing electoral law to the federations and the Vest. This is about "AUSTRIA", which is about to give up. Thirdly, we have never denied the substance of the provisions, but we have complained why you are bringing them as an emergency. It's hypocritical to put the Opposition against sports organisations. For Article 38, lie. You limit imprisonment only to slandering. We say 'for all other offences'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u334	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u335	That's what we said. I shall therefore table the Minutes in which it appears in my speech whether or not I said amendments, changes to electoral law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u336	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u337	It was said in the newspaper “SYRIZA” that lies with SYRIZA. Let me know this isn't a montaiser. I shall therefore turn to all the minutes of the Commission. [[At this point, honourable Member Anna Karamanlis submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] To close, I would ask you not to mess with us who, through our mistakes, have made a serious effort. And if since 2013 we had this paper, as you say, we have reached 18 March 2016. I will add nothing more, because no one really deals with everything you say. It was a "theatre" to pass the other provisions, many of which were "photographics" and rusfetology. Furthermore, for the mobility of officials from the General Secretariat of Sports, if we did not make any comments, it would not change, but it would be as it originally came in the bill, which was purely rousteological, for the Minister of Sport to decide, in this case, where the civil servants are going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u338	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u339	You have spoken, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u340	Just for a minute, I won't get any more. I would also like to submit the document which has been requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u341	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u342	Firstly, I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that on the issue of 18 March, all the operators have mentioned it today and also the representative of the USSR has told you. If, however, you want anything, you can also visit the WADA site where there is a document.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u343	Since yesterday we've been asking for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u344	Because I showed you yesterday, I thought you didn't need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u345	From a distance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u346	If you want me to present it officially, but I thought you were satisfied and showed it to you yesterday and told you this morning by the representative of the PSE, the Vice-President of the Hellenic Olympic Committee and the Presidents of the federations. Anyway, I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Stavros Kontonis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] My second point is that a ministerial decision is provided for in the Rules of Procedure not to change laws, but to update the code, on substances which are banned and must be added every time, if there is anything new. That's why a ministerial decision is needed. He can't change the law by ministerial decision. Mr. Fortsakis knows better than any of us in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u347	Ministerial decision will bring in and then you'll change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u348	Finally, with regard to the mobility of officials from the General Secretariat of Sports, proof that we had no such suspicion of what you were thinking and of what you were doing, because you are judging the odds, is that, as soon as this issue has been raised, we have added the involvement of the Board and the working party and the assent of the worker. So no rosphetological...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u349	Then you did that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u350	Mrs Karamanlis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u351	Excuse me, he's lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u352	What would "after doing it" mean? During the conversation, we did it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u353	Minister, you said a minute. Ten you've spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u354	...and this proves there was no intention. So what are you telling us? Shouldn't we listen to you when we talk? Just because we thought it was right, we incorporated it into the law. So don't say these things are rhyphetological. Because we are trying to solve the problems of the public administration with mobility, the accumulation of certain officials' services and the absence of other agencies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u355	All right, Mr. Contonis. The debate on the principle and articles of the bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is closed: "The necessary arrangements for harmonising Greek legislation with the World Antidopting Code and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u360	The bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sports: "The necessary arrangements to harmonise Greek legislation with the World Antidopting Code of the World Organisation and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on the articles of the bill. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u362	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u363	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u364	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u366	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u367	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u368	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u369	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u370	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u371	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u372	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u373	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u374	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u375	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u376	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u377	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u378	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u379	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u380	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u381	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u382	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u384	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u385	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u386	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u387	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u388	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u389	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u390	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u391	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u392	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u393	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u394	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u395	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u396	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u398	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u399	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u400	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u402	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u404	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u405	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u406	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u407	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u408	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u409	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u413	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u415	Yes
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u416	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u417	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u418	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u419	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u420	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u422	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u423	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u425	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u427	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u428	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u429	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u430	Yes
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u431	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u432	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u434	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u436	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u437	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u438	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u439	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u443	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u444	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u445	Article 31 has therefore been accepted as it is unanimously. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u446	Article 32 was therefore unanimously accepted. Will Rule 33 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u450	Article 33 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u454	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u457	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u458	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u460	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u461	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u462	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u463	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u464	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u465	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u466	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u467	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u468	Article 36 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u469	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u470	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u471	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u472	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u473	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u474	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u475	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u476	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u477	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u478	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u479	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u480	Article 39 was therefore unanimously accepted. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u481	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u482	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u483	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u484	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u485	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u486	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u487	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u488	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u489	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u490	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u491	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u492	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u493	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u494	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u495	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u496	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u497	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u498	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u499	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u501	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u503	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u504	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u507	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u513	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u515	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u517	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u518	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u520	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u522	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u525	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u527	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u528	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u529	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u530	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u531	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u536	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u537	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u538	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u542	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u543	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u548	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u549	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u552	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u554	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u555	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u560	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u561	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u563	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u565	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u566	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u567	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u568	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u569	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u571	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u572	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u573	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u574	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u575	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u577	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u578	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u579	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u581	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u582	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u584	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u585	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u586	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u587	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u588	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u589	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u590	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u591	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u592	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u593	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u594	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u595	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u596	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u597	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u598	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u599	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u600	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u602	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u603	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u606	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u608	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u609	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u612	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u613	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u614	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u615	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u618	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u620	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u621	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u624	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u626	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u627	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u630	Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u632	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u633	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u634	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u637	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 286 and a special 7?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u641	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 286 and a special 7 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 288 and a special number 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u644	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u645	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u646	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u647	The amendment under general number 288 and a special 8 was therefore accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u648	Present
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u649	Present
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u650	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "The necessary arrangements for the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the World Antidopting Code of the World Organisation and other provisions" were accepted in principle and on articles. Do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u651	Madam President, can we not leave the whole vote on Monday when there have been changes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u652	It must be voted on for the deadline. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u654	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Need arrangements for the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the World Antidopting Code of the World Organisation and other provisions" was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u655	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u656	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-17-S2-commons.u657	With the consent of the House, the sitting for Friday, March 18, 2016, at 10 a.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is being resolved.
