ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 27-1-2016 authorisation, the minutes of its SWR proceedings were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the SWR, of Wednesday 27 January 2016, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: “Integration into national law: Directive 2011/99/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the European Protection Order, Council Decision 2009/315/JHA of 26 February 2009 on the organisation and content of the exchange of information from the criminal register between Member States” and Council Decision 2009/316/JHA of 6 April 2009, “Integration of the European System of Criminal Register (ECRIS) pursuant to Article 11 of Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA”.’]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u2	Reports completed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, six students and students and four educational attendants from the Special Municipal School of Deserts and Varicon Argyroupolis. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We'll discuss the second...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I have a question for a third week.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u5	The turn of your question will come and you will mention it, Mr Constantinople. The second question will be discussed under number 439/25-1-2016 in the first cycle of the Parliamentary Second Athens of the New Democracy Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironopoulou to the Minister of Finance regarding the implementation of S.A.'s Decision 2194/2014. to re-establish the remuneration of Armed Forces officials. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, George Hulirakis. Here, Mrs Papakosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I put this question as a follow-up to a number of questions, tabled by many colleagues to the Minister of Defence, Mr Panos Kammenos. There is indeed a picture of conflicting views by Ministers on the issue at issue, namely the application of the Council of State's decision and its implementation in this case, as regards the remaining 50% of that decision. So as far as the pensioners of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps are concerned, I would like to ask you: Mr President, the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, on 7 October 2015, involved in the exercise of "Armenia" said on occasion, in response to the question of the restoration of remuneration, in accordance with the decision of the Council of State, that the implementation of the decision of the Skopje. It will be in the visible future. Mr Tsipras, Mr President-in-Office, the question is whether you can tell what the future is based on this commitment, Mr Tsipras. That is the first issue. Since January 2015, that is to say, the election has just taken place and the government has started its work, the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Kammenos, has been constantly speaking - but constantly! - for the reimbursement of remuneration and pensions. As you know very well, pensions do not belong to his own competence. Only you, the Ministry of Finance, can make the relevant decisions. As far as is known so far, there has never been a transfer of funds from armaments codes to payroll codes, Mr President. But Mr. Kammenos insists, and with great certainty, the Minister of National Defence tells us here that this will happen. However, because - and I close my prototype, Mr President - any moves, initiatives and acts of an economic character in the country are monitored by the institutions, the question arises, Mr Minister, as you can see, whether they will agree to this act. And, in any case, Minister, what is it? These conflicting views between Ministers show a lack of coordination of the government or in the worst case they show that it is mocking the agony - and I do not want to believe that - of the officials of the Armed Forces and of the Security Bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, George Hulirakis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u8	Mrs Papakostas, thank you for giving me the opportunity to clarify the issue of pensions and salaries for members of the Security and Armed Forces. I would like to say first of all that this is a decision of the Council of State and therefore the Government has an obligation to implement it. The government is already implementing the decision. As you know, 50% of the retrospectives and security forces' and military personnel have already been paid in 2014. This is 350 million in thirty-six instalments. These were paid in 2014 and 2015 and are obviously still paid in 2016 and 2017. The payroll and pensions of the two bodies continue to be paid, on the basis of the decision of the Council of State. I would like to say that in total, cumulative and long-term, and by 2019, the economic consequence of the decision of the Council of State is EUR 2,600,000. So 50% of the implementation corresponds to 1,300,000,000 euros. This is a commitment that has already been made. The government, however, has at the same time an obligation to ensure that large social categories which have lifted the burden of fiscal adjustment over the past five years and have to do so in circumstances, I would say, of exceptional financial stability. So what the government is facing today is a suffocating dilemma, what is the appropriate pace of implementing the decision of the Council of State. I would like to make two comments. The first observation is that during the first half of 2016 the Ministry of Finance will see from zero the issue of special wages, not only the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies but overall the special wages. It will also see in this context the speed of restoration, implementation - if you like - of the decision of the Council of State. The second is that the Ministry of National Defence in particular has an obligation in 2016 to proceed to significant cuts in its expenditure. If the Ministry of National Defence, in this context, manages to save additional resources that could be committed to a faster implementation of the agreement, we will be able to see that. But I want to be honest with both the Security Body and the Armed Forces. It's a complex matter. The whole implementation is really very big. It corresponds to EUR 2,600,000 - I must stress this - at a time when the budgetary conditions are particularly narrow. The scope for rapid implementation is therefore limited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Papakostas has the floor to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, Mr. Juliaraki, for you are honest. But I must tell you that you will have to consult the Government and tell Mr Kammenos, the Minister of National Defence, that he does not specify with the implementation of Decision 2194/2014 of the Council of State, on the restoration of the remuneration and pensions of armed forces and security forces. In particular, it must not mock my fellow Members and the Greek Chamber of Deputies, alleging that the procedure was delayed at the Ministry of Civil Protection and Maritime Protection, because they could not find the necessary funds. These were answered by Mr Kammenos in my topical question on 23 November 2015. I would like to say to you, Minister, that in the same suffocating conditions of budgetary suffocation the previous government, the New Democracy - PASOK has complied with the decision of the Council of State and No.4307/2014. I must tell you that it has also regulated the restoration and retroactive payment of 50% of the remuneration since 1 August 2012. We had planned to give the remaining 50%, the remaining half, which of course did not have time for the government to do, because the elections were held on 25 January, with the well-known results for both the election results and for the economy and the impact on both the lives of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps. After the prototype from what I understand, you are sticking to what we were all aware at the outset, that if the budgetary conditions permit, you will pay the remaining 50% by 2019 in order to implement the decision of the Council of State. In other words, the question is as follows. Today, in the process of discussing my specific topical question, you have also put an additional condition, if and since the Ministry of National Defence is able to obtain resources through cuts - you said, Minister - so that there is a reserve that will allow this money to be disbursed in order to be gradually paid back and yet in 2019 to the interested parties. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. Mr. Juliarakis has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make two clarifications. First of all, the implementation of the decision of the Council of State did not take place in 2014. In 2014, the decision was made to implement, restore, if you like, 50% of retrospectives to the active and pensioners of the Security and Armed Forces. The implementation of this decision is now taking place gradually, so it is now being paid. It was paid in 2015, it will be paid in 2016 and the payment will be completed in 2017 -- I think in mid-2017, I don't remember exactly. It is thirty-six instalments - I am referring to retrospectives. So we should be absolutely clean on this. The previous government did not disburse - because it could not -350 million in 2014 for the restoration of 50% of retrospectives. That's what's happening now, it's done in a long time. The second thing I would like to make clear is that the observation I made earlier is that the speed of restoring 50% of the retrospectives - the speed, not whether they are to be restored or not, that is for granted - depends on the general government's ability, and especially the Ministry of National Defence to save the corresponding resources. My remark, therefore, is this: firstly, 50% of the retrospectives that have not already been paid are large, EUR 350 million. The total amount that we are debating until 2019 is much higher. It needs an additional EUR 1.3 billion. In very narrow conditions, and particularly in conditions where large parts of society have lifted a disproportionate burden over the past five years, how to save the resources we have hardly saved, what are, if you want, the social priorities of the government is a matter for the government as a whole. Now, more specifically, the Ministry of National Defence 2016 has an obligation to proceed to several important savings. On the basis of the budget, this amounts to 350 million. In my view, this is essential to make, in order to finance the welfare programmes, rolling out, as they say, the full development of the minimum guaranteed income in the most vulnerable parts of society, employment programmes for the unemployed, in order to support the most vulnerable parts of society. I am sure that Mr Kammenos will implement it and I believe that he might be able to find the resources for more rapid satisfaction with the decision of the Council of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move on to the third debate under No 435/22-1-2016 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the premium for Thrace Muslims in health notices of the Ministry of Health. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Christoforos Vernadakis. Mr Pappa, you have the floor to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me out of time for a minute to address a very important issue. We are at this moment - and I am sad to see this - in the Chamber: a colleague of the Civilian opposition officer, two Members from PASOK, Mr Vice-President and Mr Constantinople and five Members from all over the Golden Dawn. I have been informed that two of the sixteen today’s questions will be answered. It has already been answered by one of my colleagues in the New Democracy and mine will now be answered. Obviously, Mr. Constantinople from PASOK will not be answered. He's here to tell his opinions. This is an issue you know, Mr President, from the Conference of Presidents and the Vice-President. Isn't that right, Mr. Cream?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u15	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u16	As soon as the President of Parliament from Stepma, who are you, yesterday on the agenda for the debate of the political leaders on insurance, referred to this issue, of the ministers who do not come to answer. And I ask myself: when a President of Parliament, by this institutional role, who is the third in order under the Constitution, is thus treated by the government, imagine how the simple anonymous Greek citizen is treated. This must be put back to the Conference of Presidents by all the parties, and at last, the Government, the Ministers, must give due respect to parliamentary control. I am entering my question and thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to thank you very much for being right about your obligation, Mr Bernardakis, as Minister and coming to answer a question from a Member. My question has a long history. It's started last year. He was originally put to the Ministry of Health, where Mr Xanthos and Mr. Paulakis refuse in the well-known, unconstitutional and unacceptable way to respond to topical and written questions. And I finally ended up thinking that we should change the Ministry while it was, I would say, primarily the Ministry of Health, because my question concerns the recruitment of the Ministry of Health. You will have seen it, but we should also know the other colleagues and the people who are following its content. My question relates to the Thrace Muslims' premium in health notices of the Ministry of Health. Therefore, this notice from the AACC - has 4K/2015 and 5K/2015 - and Greek nationals belonging to the Muslim minority of Thrace are being donated. In other words, in addition to the special categories, there are also the Muslims in Thrace, who are classified as a list of special positions, and at a rate of 5%. And I ask: What are Greek nationals belonging to the Muslim minority of Thrace classified in a separate, special category? Are these different Greeks from the other Greeks? So, all the other Greeks are equal and some other Greeks are more equal? What action will the state, the government, finally, take to remove this gross discrimination against Greek citizens of the Greek Orthodox religion? It would be, Minister, and this second is not a question, but, I would say, it would be very honorable for you to say: 'Yes, there has been a mistake, we correct it, we take this provision back'. It cannot apply to a favoured state, to a state of democracy, as you want to say, this provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u17	Good. Mr Vernardakis has the floor to answer the question we have just heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to make it clear that there is a substantial mistake in your question, Mr Papoutsis. It's not about 5%, but 5.. This 5 is an obligation for ASA to publish it on the basis of n. 2190/1994, Article 7 I read exactly the law: "Amounts of the positions of regular staff and staff under a contract of private law indefinitely by category of IP, TE, etc., which are opened by pan-Hellenic competitions of ASEP, are covered by Greek nationals from the Muslim minority of Thrace who are themselves registered in the municipalities of Thrace or other municipality of the country in which they have been transferred from the municipality of Thrace. The AACC shall, by its notice, allocate the positions corresponding to the above percentages by county, body and category.’ It is therefore an obligation resulting from the 1994 Act. It is about defending procedures and conditions of equality and equalisation for all Greek citizens, and it stipulates that the percentage for the Muslim minority is 5 rather than 5%. Five is what has been implemented in this particular health ministry's statement, and I think that now covers us as a whole. We do not need to correct it, unless there is a political will of another type, to make other corrections to the founding law of the AACC or to the recruitment law, which is something different. However, in this case, there is no question. In my opinion, this is a substantial misunderstanding. It is not 5% but 5%, and the whole process, as provided for by the law of the IASA and the obligations arising from all recruitment procedures, has been followed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Pappas has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u20	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It does not change the essence of the question. So, this is is isopolitical and isopolitical? I'm telling you one. It doesn't change the substance. Why is this distinction made? In any case, since discrimination is taking place, and so do you mean equality for Greek citizens, why not discriminate against other categories of Greeks? For example, the children of the security officers and the Greek citizens who have been attacked by their parents, why not hire not the Ministry of Civil Protection but the Ministry of Health? So why shouldn't there be a provision for these children? Instead, we see the Ministry of Culture accepting the National Theatre - that is, with the money of Greek citizens - a theatrical performance based on the book of terrorist Savva Xirou. Is that how you mean isology and iso-state? And do not mention the issue of polyteces, which you themselves - and not just yourself, but also the Qualified Opposition which is absent, there is no one here from the previous Memorandum of Understanding - you have affected acquired rights. Instead, you - bringing a hope and a change, as you are proclaiming - help these categories of our citizens, because it is a national issue of demographics, and you are also taking the rights of luxuries. So, that's 5, because your answer was based on the fact that it's not 5% but it's 5, you didn't tell me anything else - why you give it to the Muslims - not only are Muslims, there are other religions in Greece - and you don't give it to the Catholics, to the Greek citizens of the Cyclades? Why don't you give it to other categories of religion, religious Greeks? Is that is isology and iso-state? I have great interest in hearing how you will justify this decision. I told you it would be very honorable of you to say, "It is 5; you have made a mistake, Mr. Poppa..." - yes, I may be wrong, it is not 5% - "and this provision is not right under the Constitution and we withdraw it."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Poppa, that's exactly what I told you, you're wrong with the question. It's not 5%, but it's 5,000.This is 5,000 out of the law. There's expressly inside the n. Regulation (EC) No 2190/1994. Now you tell why it should be for Muslims and not for others. It's for everyone. In each AACC notice there are quotas for different categories which have been or may have been fixed. For example, there are multitexts, as you say third parties. There are specific categories of workers who are marginalised when they are actually covered by fixed and permanent needs and they must also cover the notices of permanent staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u23	I'm sorry, I'm not interrupting, but why is it based on the religion? You are the government that has a different understanding of the religion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u24	There are no religious differences.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u25	They're Muslims.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u26	They are Muslims in this particular case, because they refer to the specific notice you are talking about. There are differentiations in the notices or in the quotas of the IASC which can be made for various reasons with small percentages in different categories of Greek citizens. What you say about the multiples, the tritecs or the special categories of people with disabilities is true. There are many categories that are being mobilized. All this policy is persecuted by the central law of the AACC for reasons of equality and equalisation. That's the answer. There is no distinction specifically between the Greeks in relation to the religion. There are always proportionate applications made under the general law concerning specific categories of citizens. So, first of all, we have a general law that regulates the general rules of isocracy which deals with many categories, not only religious but also others. Secondly, we have the specific case you are asking about. There's no reason for disagreement. We're fixing it. It's obviously a mistake. It's 5:00. However, this 5 is defined by the founding law of the AAP. In other words, the ASA and the Ministry of Health were committed to follow this distinction. This applies proportionately to other categories.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I just have to say, in reply to Mr Pappa, that, unfortunately, things are worse than you described. Questions are nineteen in total and two are answered. I am sure the Conference of Presidents - and Mr Kremastinos is here - will have to see what measures we can take, because this is not a state of parliamentary control. In fact, one of Parliament's two functions has been cancelled. The fourth question under number 434/22-1-2016 is the first-round question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of the Clinic of the Rhodes Hospital, will not, unfortunately, be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Mr. Vice President is here. Here, Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor to say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, the problem is not the general problem you have raised, as Mr Pappas mentioned, because parliamentary control is not the prerogative of the ministers but the obligation. Legislative work and parliamentary control are, in fact, Parliament's most essential powers. Of course, the Conference of Presidents has taken steps, which you know as well as I do, but it seems to be not enough. That is, for example, the Minister must mention his coma. If it's abroad, that's understandable. If something happens with the country's international relations, it's still understandable. If, however, there is no substantial barrier, the Minister is obliged to be exposed to the House, namely before the Greek people, because we here do not represent ourselves. We represent a number of thousands of people behind us. Therefore, this function is essential and must in every way be safeguarded. Also historically speaking because of my other capacity, medical and contacting Andreas Papandreou, I would tell you that, when he was about to reshape the government, one of the elements he took into consideration was whether the ministers were consistent with their parliamentary obligations. When someone told him excuses, he said that this is a key element of democracy parliamentary control. Keep that in mind, because it has to be. Now, I'm not here to protest because Rhodes Hospital Cardiological Clinic is not working well. I am here because the chairman of the scientific board and head of the cardiological clinic, after completing all the procedures provided for by law - i.e. the Ministry of Education, Services, etc. - sent out a series of documents stating that if he does not have the medical staff he had last year, his basic function is automatically cancelled, that is, what the world knows as stents, pottery, balloons, etc. In other words, the most remote area in the country, the most remote hospital is at the mercy of God, because if anyone has a heart attack, they should bring him to Athens with a helicopter, and if he has a bad weather and cannot come, you realize what this thing means. I would therefore expect, if anything, because health ministers are also doctors, not in my capacity as academic but at least in the capacity of Vice-President, to make a phone call and say, "You know, that's how things have to be solved." That is why, today in some way, I protest, because there is something that is more than what is called parliamentary control, which is human life. And with human life, we must not compromise! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Kremastino. I think this appeal - a demand to the Ministry for the service of the cardiological clinic, is more than dramatic and has an extremely urgent character. At least I think that the two of us as doctors can push as far as the Ministry of Health can, in order to get rid of all the room for the minimum number of doctors required to operate the cardiological clinic. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 48th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. The seventh question, number 408/18-1-2016, in the context of the second question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the progress of the projects to make use of the former airport of Greek, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Mr. Constantinople has asked for the floor. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. It is the third week, Mr Ministers of Government, to come to Parliament and not to Mr Chakalotos. Generally speaking, as the President has said, the government is extinct from Parliament. Mr President, the government, if you will allow me to do so with a dose of exaggeration - which I do not think is excessive - has been'spitting' Parliament for eight months. And if you get the statistics of the other times, the other governments, the previous years that have been difficult, it has never happened before. 'First time a left-wing government' is spitting Parliament, democratic institutions and is extinct. Mr President-in-Office, this is not a personal matter to you. To God! But you are representing the government today. I shall return the question, Mr President. But from now on your responsibilities begin. It is not enough to say from this step, with the best intentions, that the ministers should come. From next time, from next week, if the ministers don't come back, it's your responsibility too. And so that there are no other cases of this kind, I think that all of us - and if the SYRIZA Parliament does not want, we cannot go on Golden Dawn, under no circumstances should the rest - react collectively to what is happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. I would like to tell you that I fully share your anxiety. We all accept, as I personally, the share of the responsibility that lies with us. So we will try to do everything possible, because this situation does not honor either the government or Parliament. The first question under number 437/25-1-2016 of the First Cycle of the MP Laris of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Anna Vageias to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the protection of the forest of Saints Theodoros in the local community of Rapsanis, Municipal Unit Lower Olympia of the Municipality of Tempus, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fifth under No 442/25-1-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the closure of the "SOFTEX" plant in Botani, is not discussed because of the impediment of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Katrougalos is abroad. The sixth question, under number 429/19-1-2016, is the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the resolution of the SAPIS Group's problem and the determination of the time schedule for the payment of the compensation to the beneficiaries, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The seventh question, with number 430/19-1-2016, is not debated due to an impediment by the Minister of State, Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos, to the Minister of State, on the validity of the polls, as the Minister of State, Mr. Nikolaos Papapas, accompanied the Prime Minister abroad. Eighth under number 431/21-1-2016, a top-level question for the first cycle of Piraeus, Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economics, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the recognition of about three thousand degrees from Greek colleges and universities abroad, is not discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The first, with number 438/25-1-2016, is a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the immediate treatment of the arbitrary issue and the lifting of the political hostage of the owners of arbitrary buildings, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The second question under number 440/25-1-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Stamatis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the abolition of the barren air lines, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Minister Christos Spirtzis accompanying the Prime Minister in Israel. The third, with number 436/22-1-2016, is a topical question by MP 2 of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, about the unexplained and unjustified increases in fuel prices addressed to Greek consumers, is not discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. The fourth question under number 433/22-1-2016, on the terms of eligibility of the beneficiaries of the associated rice aid, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The fifth question, under number 432/22-1-2016, is the second question of the Member of Parliament for the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, Minister for Economic Affairs, Development and Tourism, concerning the "asphyxiative" deadline for updating the files of outstanding applications of borrowers according to the n. 3869/2010 and the time spent on the provision of the detailed payment statements is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The sixth question under number 349/25-1-2016 of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Health, concerning the "private of Thrace Muslims in calls for the recruitment of health personnel of the Ministry of Health", is not discussed. Eighth No. 374/11-1-2016 topical question from the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manniatis to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the implementation of the provision of n. 4162/2013 on the establishment of the Generation Solidarity Fund (National Social Solidarity Account “ELKAG”), is not discussed because of the Minister's impediment, as the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Katrugalos is abroad. The ninth under number 425/19-1-2016 topical question by Mr. Magnesia MEP, the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of workers in ContiTech IMAS SA in the First Industrial Area (BIPE). Volos, it is not debated because of an impediment by the Minister, as Minister Katrugalos is abroad. The tenth under number 426/19-1-2016, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, regarding the immediate reopening of the recycling plant in Heraklion Crete and the re recruitment of workers by WASTE SOLUTIONS, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Finally, the eleventh Question No 409/18-1-2016 by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the need to maintain PPC's sub-category in Tynavos, Larissa, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are adjourning the sitting to continue at 12 noon with legislative work, in accordance with the agenda which has been distributed to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: 'Regulating the issues of transfer of soldiers, personnel care and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 25 January 2016 to discuss the draft law in two meetings. The draft law will be discussed in the first place. The articles and amendments of the bill will be discussed at this afternoon's sitting as a unity. Before I give the floor to the rapporteurs and the special speakers, to be recorded in the Minutes, I would mention that the rapporteurs are: from SYRIZA to Panayota Kozoboli - Amanatidis, from New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Kefaloniannis, from the Golden Dawn, from Ilias Kasidiaris, from the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos, from the Communist Party of Greece, from Liana Kanellis, from Potamis Spyridon Dannelis, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis and from the Association of Kentronis Saridis. Minister, because there was a non-microphone debate, I would like to tell you that this is the body of amendments which my colleagues know. Do you want now - but certainly before the debate is over - to say what you are accepting? Because from what I have been informed, a new one has already been filed, which you have in mind, because you are signatories. There's another one coming. In fact, the Minister will have to be reassigned for these amendments before we finish the debate in principle and vote. Do you want those that have already been tabled, Minister, to give you the floor for five minutes, or do you want to see them and during the debate to give you the floor for five minutes after the two rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u33	If you want, I'll speak first. The first thing I'm going to say is for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u34	And that's what's happening. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that the Minister will speak first and be placed on the amendments too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u35	This is unanimously accepted. Okay, maybe it's more practical. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say what amendments I have already accepted from the body of the amendments you have already tabled. The amendment under number 162 and special 16, which deals with the possibility of special situations of all branches in the GSP and DISPUS, is therefore accepted. Mr Djimanis has tabled it. The legislative improvement tabled by Mrs Canelley is acceptable. I don't think I need to read it. You'll be distributed. Amendment No 160 is accepted and Amendment No 14, relating to the extension of a deadline for the correction of real estate documents, is hereby accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u37	What amendment do you accept? The 150 or 151? She has testified two of Mrs. Canelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u38	It's not an amendment. It's a legislative improvement, which we're going to do. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u39	All right, it's clear. That's why you had the mess. He's talking about a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u40	It's not an amendment. It's a legal improvement. I said about the deadline for the correction of real estate documents. Amendment No 163 is accepted and specific No 17 is 17. This concerns - and there will also be a legislative improvement - the Elefsina shipyards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u41	Isn't that ministerial?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u42	Yes, she's a ministerial. That makes sense. What you said is the right thing to do. Amendment Nos 152 and 12, which deal with fines for irresponsibility, is accepted. That's one time and we're done. Amendment No 161 is also accepted and Amendment No 15, tabled by Mr Danellis, on how to determine the amounts of the takeover. I think there's no one else. These are the amendments and the legislative improvements, which we have already made, which Mr Lovers rightly pointed out, and for the others there will be a debate and I will say if need be for a different reason. Some are also correct, but they are not concerned with this bill or they need further study. I'll tell you when this conversation takes place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u43	Well, there's four of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u44	Yeah. So, Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u45	Let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, having completed the course of the discussions in the relevant committee of Parliament on the bill of the Ministry of National Defence, having listened to the reservations of the Vice-President but also to the views of the bodies unanimously invited by the committee, it is clear to me that the provisions of this bill do not concern solely the Ministry of National Defence. They are also about reasonable social and political values. I want to make two points from the start. The Ministry of National Defence is all about society in my view and not just the military and civilian personnel who serves in it. It also concerns society, both at the level of deterrent from outside and at the level of economic reconstruction based on the defence industry, but also at the level of social supply in difficult conditions, such as natural disasters, the refugee and immigration issue, solidarity with the wrongly suffering and others. And secondly, the people who serve in the Armed Forces, the officers, the officers and the gunmen, are never considered a closed circle. They live in society, have the same problems as other citizens, and especially in peacetimes, they must enjoy the same working and social rights. Of course, I am not going to get away from what I have said in committee. I do not think that this bill is about a radical incision. Much more can be done and I am talking about the issues he is dealing with. But we can, with relative comfort, claim that most of the provisions of the bill fall within what can be called a "revolution of self-evident". For example, the call for bodies in the committee - and this is the first time that bodies were invited to a bill by the Ministry of National Defence - on the one hand it strengthened the democraticity of the institutions, on the other hand, the close link between society and the Armed Forces. In the bill, we are dealing with an attempt to regulate issues that in one way or another employ a large part of Greek society. It's definitely about a lot of the political world. The first seven articles of the law establish an objective transfer system for all branches. Procedures shall be standardised and the possibility of arbitrary transfer shall be eliminated. At the same time, these provisions are a sincere confession that what we had up to now was not enough, and many times it was neither right nor fair, what, under the responsibility of political formations, political individuals, power bodies and also influence factors, has been maintained for many decades at the expense of the soldier and his family. And it is encouraging in my view that during the debate in the committee we have all agreed on this. The transfer of arms is now regulated. A transparent moleculation system is being introduced which can be controlled by the armourers themselves and also by the relevant committee of Parliament. It is an effort, among others, that the Greek state should leave behind a part of the customer relations and at the same time dismantle political offices from such requests. It is, at the same time, an effort of self-criticism and self-determination. Above all, however, it is an attempt to deceive each family of stress and effort to seek, when the time comes, the "appropriate" man and then stop paying for good transfer. Each individual will be shifted according to the number of molecules collected on the basis of three criteria: service criteria, which address the operational needs, but also extend to the skills and knowledge of the soldier, economic and social criteria which are strictly defined and complemented - I would say - on your own sound points but also to proposals from the confederacy, particularly those with disabilities, and at the same time, objective criteria relating to the degree of difficulty of each unit and the general staff with their own decisions. No intervention, no circumvention of the standardised procedure should be tolerated, but this is primarily about political will. However, one must not forget that, in order to give equality and justice, account must be taken of the specific characteristics of a situation, because otherwise we are often driving towards absolute inequality. In this bill we are trying to take account of the most severe social and economic situations, not only now in the period of crisis but then, since we are able to shape conditions of exit from the crisis. It is clear that we are in favour of those categories that with purely economic and social criteria need it. We have enriched these criteria with the proposals made in the committee and assessed on a high scale the problems facing people with disabilities. Taking into account all the figures and operational needs of the Armed Forces, we have listed only the cases that will be served at their place. I would like to refer to the three exceptions included in the transfer system: they are the exceptions concerning personally the armed forces and its situation, the exceptions concerning operational specificities of units and specialties, and the exceptions imposed by the social supply needs of the Armed Forces, which reach up to 2% of each ERC and are defined by the General Staff. In our view, it is the incarnation of the common sense of the assumption. Of course, nothing in a law can be predicted in the life of a soldier. That is why we put this safety net so that the most rare and unforeseen situations can be dealt with. A commission headed by a senior officer and four senior officers will judge cases where the soldier would exceptionally request a transfer. We have left in the hands of the Heads of Staff the charges which should in fact be excluded. For all cases of exceptions, a reasoned decision is required and in all cases the relevant committee of Parliament is informed every six months. It is the Heads of Staff who will also be invited to implement the transfer system, transferring them responsibility immediately after the publication of the Ministerial Molecular Determination Decision. In this definition they will of course have the dominant say. Is all this enough to end what we call the so-called "spot" now? Yes, if it is accompanied by political will. Today we must all take a clear position: Or we declare the break with the previous situation or, although we agree, we are in fact still giving our tolerance, continuing hypocritically to denounce the rumours, while at the same time we are still looking for customer relations. For the rest of the law, first of all, I am pleased that they have accepted most of the articles. We have also incorporated observations from the committee and also from the institutions here. In Articles 8 to 10, the principle is now that the term of office should cease to be an inactive period of work. We're trying for the opposite. We believe that combining the term of office and gaining work experience, but - where possible - and the social offer is not an impossible objective. It will be for the benefit of the armed forces and for the benefit of society. On this, armed doctors will be able at the same time to serve their term of office and also to fulfil the obligation of an agricultural doctor with the compensation provided for by the Ministry of Health. In the positions of rural doctors in fertile and inappropriate areas that cannot be covered by the Ministry of Health will be placed by armed doctors, provided that the capabilities of the Armed Forces allow it. Thus, they will also acquire work experience, treating people who by definition are difficult to move to a larger urban center for medical care. It is my opinion that if this provision saves even one person, the reason why we anticipate it will have been achieved, this provision will have succeeded. A similar arrangement is the one concerning graduates in law. For the remaining working and scientific groups, an authorised provision is provided for and will be confirmed by appropriate presidential decrees. We are already in consultation with scientific and professional bodies such as the Technical Chamber of Greece and I think we will soon have the first results. Thus, the Armed Forces remain open to society and this must be cultivated further. The benefits will be multiple and mutual. In accordance with Article 12, a large number of subordinates shall be settled by military, criminal and administrative means, provided that they have already or are going to fulfil their military obligations. The main benefit of this arrangement is the removal of administrative consequences and therefore the removal of the administrative fine and the cessation of criminal prosecutions. These provisions also concern objections of conscience. With this provision we are changing the logic of approaching the subordinates, who are now about thirty thousand. From the point of view of the anti-motors we go through providing incentives to serve those who are irresponsible, to increase the staffing of the Armed Forces, to get rid of those who are actually serving high fines, which we are reviewing. At the same time, at the same time, military courts will be rid of a large amount of cases. For undersecretaries over thirty-five, we are reducing the time they have to serve in order to acquire the balance of their term of office. It's been twenty forty days. This is a period of time that allows the worker to get his license and settle this loose end. In our view, the problem of many unscrupulous, especially foreigners is a solution. Finally, although this law does not seek to regulate issues of conscience, they are now being given the opportunity to offer their services to the structures of large urban centres, where the crisis is mainly expressed and they really need it. It follows a number of care provisions in favour of staff. They are mainly staff who are facing serious health problems in their family environment, but they are also being restored to injustices or breaches of the existing framework. We're trying to make our approach anthropcentric. Protected groups are being widened and we are trying to combine the operational requirements of the Armed Forces with certain special family situations and requirements. Indiscriminate discrimination and codified provisions concerning staff rights shall be deleted. In particular, the payment of the normalisation allowance shall be regulated for parents who are divorcing or divorcing or being single and who are paying a maintenance allowance. They're no longer treating themselves like they didn't have children. Parenthood obviously continues after a divorce. It extends the benefit of the job rehabilitation of the members of the fallen family from one to two. All types of licences shall be codified in a decision for staff to be easily informed of the licenses they are entitled to. This is how we ensure legal certainty and a uniform application of such a sensitive area of the labour situation of staff. For the first time, officials of the Drought Army are treated uniformly. We guarantee equal rights for access and feeding to all military clubs. This regulation extends to civil servants and now ceases to be discriminatory to benefits and care. The Armed Forces Support Office shall be established, which shall be directly subject to the Chiefs of General Staff. Its aim is first of all to provide emotional and psychological support to the armed forces. At the same time, however, it is a useful tool in the hands of the Heads of Staff for the immediate evaluation of issues relating to the living of the soldiers. I have heard many views in the committee about allegedly circumventing the hierarchy. No circumvention! It is already something that is now being established by rules and limits within the military hierarchy and not at the level of a political office of Minister. The last part of the bill regulates education issues. There are practical problems that we are facing, but there are also substantial interventions. For the first time, the permanent staff of the Armed Forces are treated uniformly. The right to acquire knowledge at undergraduate and postgraduate level and to staff members on subjects related to the performance of their duties or their specificity is granted. In addition to all staff in a ministerial decision, the procedures for selecting staff for training at higher education institutions in the home and abroad are being codified. In addition to the gaps created in the military schools of the Armed Forces, i.e. the AACC and the AACC, either because of the failure to join or because of the resignation, removal or departure for any reason. The process of participants will have strict time, so that we do not create problems in the operation of schools. With regard to the reintroduction of ratings on the scale in force since 1996 for compulsory military schools, there has been quite a long intermediate time to see this regulation again. I also understand as legal the issues that have arisen and have to do with the philosophy of law, but also with the position of retrospectiveness on a legislative initiative. That is why we have also amended the transitional provision. However, I cannot understand the doubts raised as to the feasibility of this provision. We give the opportunity to young officers not to stop their career at the age of twenty-five and thirty. We allow them to have vision and offer the Armed Forces. You cannot leave an officer who has another thirty years of service before him because he has not achieved more than seventeen at a school lasting six and nine months. It's not even, in our opinion, worthwhile. And I expect the Civic Opposition but also those who had reservations, a position different from the one I heard in committee. Of course, if need be, I'll come back. To conclude, I would also like to refer to the amendment that I tabled, which concerns the completion of the construction of the two ships of the Hellenic Navy. For these ships, the Greek State has already paid nearly 90% of their price, not only to have received it, but even to be close to their completion. The operational needs of the Navy require the immediate completion of their construction. With the agreement reached between the Navy, the ownership and the workers, which we are now called upon to ratify, we ensure the immediate start of construction operations under the coordination of the Navy, the completion of the ship building in twenty-nine months, the small but crucial time to deal with all - and other relevant ministries - the issue of shipbuilding. At the same time, the Navy ensures that its operational needs are met and workers work and prospects from twenty-nine months on. In conclusion, I would like to say that this bill is a very good opportunity to strengthen our credibility as political parties and as natural political persons. Given that I think that sufficient explanations have been given and a number of corrections have been accepted, that other political disagreements should not be a stronger incentive than our obligation to leave the Armed Forces out of the field of party disputes. If you want, that will strengthen the seriousness and substance, in political terms, of any other comparisons between us in other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, once you have sat down, the first two you have read, which are the legislative improvements made by Mrs Kanelli, who accepted it, and yours, to give them, to be photocopied and distributed to the Members. As soon as you sit down at your seating tables, give them to the Minutes, to be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u48	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u49	We are now starting with the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, a request.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u51	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, the procedure. We had a morning meeting at 10:00 and a afternoon at 18:30. Because there is a lot of material with the amendments and we have interesting issues to discuss, do you stick as the Bureau to the arrangement of time as set out yesterday? So are we going to go to 18:30 or are we going to do a continuous process? What are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u53	Okay. Let us finish the prototypes of rapporteurs and speakers and see. This small amendment may need to be made. Mrs. Kozobol has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, the bill comes for discussion: 'Consolidation of arms transfers and personnel care', which, during the consultation, only received positive comments. Also, during the preparation of the bill by the committee, all parties agreed on the lack of a legislative framework and therefore the affinity of the transfer system of the hosts. We also agree, during the drafting of the bill in committee, to the need to reconcile the time when the citizen performs his military obligations with his later life. A comprehensive, standardised, user-friendly, operational and fair system for the placement and transfer of the hosts is introduced for the first time by the draft legislation. A legal vacuum, which had been voluntarily allowed to exist in the context of the organisation and operation of the Armed Forces, is completed. The door of favorable rule is closed in the army of any customer relationship between their soldiers, their families and the political system. Settlement of the unsubordinated citizens by eliminating theportance of their act until the end of 2017. The provision of facilities for the personnel of the Armed Forces for the conduct of studies is being introduced. Finally, the term of office of doctors, lawyers and other professionals is creatively used. In particular, with the current legal framework, transfers by the hosts are not governed by any specific legislation. Ministerial decisions relating to transfers are not based on specific provisions of laws. This gap comes to cover today the present draft law, which in its first part, in Articles 1 to 9, establishes a system for the transfer of arms, which is the subject of law for the first time. The positionings, secondments, transfers are decided by the Minister of National Defence, who can transfer it to the Chiefs of the General Staff and, in turn, to senior and senior officials. This is also the responsibility of the political leadership in the current legal framework. That doesn't change. The draft legislation, however, establishes an audit tool for those who decide on these matters, an insurance policy. A mobilisation system for transfers is being established to ensure that the positioning and transfer arrangements of the soldiers are governed by the principles of transparency and integrity. First of all, the obligation of everyone's service is laid down for a considerable period of time in operational training units and border units. Secondly, it is clearly stated that priority over all the other criteria for the positioning and transfer of soldiers is the service and operational needs of the Armed Forces. The moleculosis system is based on service criteria, which are the grammar knowledge of the hosts, professional experience, skills and special skills that can be exploited for the needs of the service. Indeed, the service needs are the first of the criteria, which is why these possibilities or experiences of the soldiers are evaluated. Second criterion is the group of social and economic criteria in the characteristics of the hosts, such as loss of relatives first degree, parental unemployment, diseases with a disability rate of 67% of the member of the household, existence of a child, whether he is the host member of a third party or a multitude of family, etc. Third, there are the objective criteria determined by factors affecting the living conditions of the hosts and categorising the units according to the degree of difficulty, the distance of the unit from the border, tourists, etc. There is also a negative moleculation for a soldier who has suffered serious disciplinary misconduct, the notion of which has been laid down by law, not in the form of punishment, but in the sense that he will not receive molecules to go to the place of his preference. In addition, the bill does not depend on the existence of a scientific cold and inadmissible molecules system covering all cases. It provides for the setting-up of a special committee for exceptional placements and transfers, precisely so that it can meet the requirements and needs of common sense. Exemptions exist only for soldiers who are beneficiaries of social programmes, due to the fact that they themselves or their families live in extreme poverty. At the end of the basic training, these soldiers may be placed closer to their place of desire. Such care is also taken for drug addicts who have successfully completed their treatment programme if they so wish. It is a discriminatory behaviour in favour of the socially vulnerable groups. Apart from criteria, it remains only 2% of the total number of ESRBs, which are estimated to be about two hundred and are cases of specialists and specialists, used exclusively for service purposes. However, a fully reasoned decision is needed here too. Transparency of the system in place is ensured by the disclosure of the 50 arms transferred and collected the lowest score, while for the first time the gunman has the preference statement of the place he wishes to go. Chapter II stipulates that doctors should be able to fill in the gaps of agricultural doctors during their term of office. In this way, medical posts are covered in disposable places, having covered the service obligations that always precede. Thus, the Armed Forces are also doing their social work, beyond that of the country's security. Such arrangements will also apply to graduates of legal schools that can count their service time as legal advisers to legal offices in the Armed Forces, in the time necessary to obtain the permission to pursue their profession. In the same spirit, there is provision for the extradition of presidential decrees, where work experience will be recognised for a number of other categories and specialties, so that the time of the hosts' term not only will not be empty, but will create qualifications for their subsequent working life. By granting a normalization allowance and divorcing soldiers and having a maintenance obligation an injustice is waived. Another chapter regulates the obligations of the subordinates. The subordinates with the present regime have three consequences: criminal proceedings against them, military unfinishedness and administrative fines imposed on them. Article 12 of the draft law excludes the invitation for which they have been declared irresponsible, those who have been or have been in quarantine upon the entry into force of the law in question, if they have fulfilled or fulfilled their military obligations until 31/12/2017. The criminality of those who fall under the rules of this law is being eliminated, criminal prosecutions are being lifted and the criminal consequences in general are being eradicated and the administrative fines imposed are all established. In the event that part of them has been repaid, the remaining amount shall be derecognised. The relevant documents shall be filed. The same arrangements are made for objections of conscience. The duration of the alternative or armed military obligation shall be reduced where those wishing to take over the rest of their military obligations are obliged to fulfil. All provisions relating to military permits are codified, which are now scattered into hundreds of pages. The criteria taken into account for the transfer of military personnel from the Armed Forces to ensure that military personnel with disabilities are taken into account. Important and innovative are the provision of Article 20 with the creation of Armed Support Offices. The purpose of the establishment of these Offices, which will be made up of skilled personnel, is to provide emotional support to the armed forces, to record, evaluate and promote complaints from the armed forces. This Office will be a useful tool for day-to-day monitoring and from the first day of ranking of hosts' living and service conditions, with a view to improving conditions during their military service. This office will operate in parallel to the existing support structures, without dismissing them. In the third chapter, something that has not existed until now is institutionalised. Facilities are provided for all military personnel of the Armed Forces to participate in undergraduate and postgraduate studies. An increase of one year is being made in total attendance at schools of permanent official of the Armed Forces. The rating scale is also redefined to bring it into line with that of all education institutions in the country. Generally, the training of military personnel of the Armed Forces under Articles 21 to 28 is being upgraded. In the course of the drafting of the bill, a lot of discussion took place on the retroactiveness of the provisions on the redefinition of the rating scale. The recasting of the device, whereby a time limiting the repetition of the crises associated with the rating scale is given, only the settlement of the injustices will result in the settlement. So I think retrospective application is imposed. It is clear from the summary presentation of the draft law that this is based on the principles of democracy, equality and justice. It is a first step towards upgrading all the issues that concern the Armed Forces. The social role of the Armed Forces is being upgraded. It is clear that the servants of their military obligations are not treated as numbers, but as people with specific needs and obligations - family and professional - who are trying to cover to a certain extent so that the time of their term of office does not forcefully suspend any bond of their lives as citizens. Finally, training of permanent servants in the Armed Forces is being upgraded, with everything that implies in order to upgrade the level of the Armed Forces. This improves the degree of service and operational capacity of the Armed Forces, at a time when the situation is particularly fluid for peace and security in an extremely sensitive region. I would like, by closing my introduction to the issue of the bill we are debating, to refer to an amendment on correcting the first entries in the register. This amendment, as you will see, is typically overdue. However, an amendment had been tabled in the short term with about the same content, which was initially the subject of a response from the "CECHOLOGY S.A.". The company agreed with the amendment with a slightly different approach. For a spirit of consensus, we have retabled this amendment, and that is why it is a delay. It has a little difference from the previous one. That's all for the guy. In essence, it is a social problem. I am aware that the bill we are debating today is quite different from what is provided for in the amendment, but a social problem is solved. We need to go beyond the type and go to the substance of the matter, because the deadline for correcting the initial entries has already expired in many areas and in others expires in early 2016 and for the first programmes - the so-called pilots - which have been implemented many errors have been made due either to the way these areas were built or to the responsibility of the citizens who have not corrected what they had to correct in time. It is therefore necessary in these circumstances of the crisis to give another extension. Otherwise, the presumption in favour of the State applies, the property that has not been registered in the names of the true owners is passed on to the State and will then have to be subject to difficult time-consuming procedures and regular actions to claim them. It is therefore absolutely essential that this amendment be voted on and I call on all the governments of Parliament to vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Standardization of the Arms Trade Treaty'. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that to date the process governing the transfers of soldiers, aggression officers, academia and protagonists had not been subject to any legislative treatment. The reasons that have not allowed such an initiative are not many. On the contrary, I would say that one, in its time-consuming recommendation, can now be summed up, I dare say, acknowledgement and admission by the Greek state that military service can be a skilled tool not only to increase the strength of the army and the forging of national identity, but unfortunately also to reproduce customer links between the political system and the citizens. This possibility that over time the political system has given itself, that is to say, literally regulate through the term of office for a short period of time the lives and everyday life of the citizens at hand, in exchange for electoral and political support, is even today, in the year 2016, one of the few privileges that those having power each time safeguards themselves. The result of this practice is more or less well known to all of us. For a long time now, the institution of office has lost credibility. From a large part of our country's youth experience as an unavoidable obligation, as a necessary evil without any essential content. The term of office of a new man is now seen not productively, not creatively, but as a period of time that must pass as painlessly as possible, so that those who are subject to it return as soon as possible to the normal, normal life of the citizen. This need, unfortunately, has been exploiting the political system over time, creating relationships with the citizens, for example by sharing favourable moves close to the point where the soldiers prefer or by awarding favorable specialties to 'the other parties'. This is a culture, which has been well rooted in Greek society and which has blocked most of it horizontally. It is a culture that, unlike some claim, does not know the traditional divisive divisions, such as the Right or the Left, rich or poor, urban, middle or working class. The only divisive part that distinguishes it is that of access to or not to those who have the ability to intervene in order to change the course of a military service. To stay at home, I think that only disappointment is caused by many of my fellow Members that in many cases the only point of contact for a politician with a citizen is his request for a favourable position or, in general, for a favourable treatment during his term of office. Only disappointment can cause many of us that at the end of the day we can also be judged by some citizens positively or negatively by the fact that we have managed to intervene and not influence their military service more favourably. This vicious circle, which is reproduced by customer reliance, which reduces the credibility of the political system and devaluates the institution of service, we must at some point break it. We have to do this - if you will allow me - and for some other reasons: we know very well that the budgetary difficulties of recent years have now made their appearance in the structure and functioning of the military. The implementation of the Armed Forces has long been a real problem for the Armed Forces. For many years now, for example, there has been no recruitment of professional soldiers because of strict budgetary constraints. Also, a large number of executives have retired or resigned, without the state continuing to make such a replacement. Finally, our country has been facing a very serious demographic problem for a long time. If, in fact, all of these above parameters are combined with the policy of reducing the time of the term of office and with the fact that the recent economic crisis has led thousands of young people to emigrate outside Greece, then we can understand why progressively, but stablely, every NSAs are increasingly presenting fewer and fewer recruits. There is therefore a question of maximising the performance of classes. In this broader context, we have assessed, in the course of the previous period, the bill we are discussing today, whether under the present structure of the army the introduction of an objective and standardized transmission system, as the legislator claims, maximises its potential for the available officials and, secondly, whether it succeeds in breaking what the government implys, that is, the client-to-people links that have been developed around the transfer and distraction system in office, introducing a new concept that restores credibility and objectivity in the whole process. During the previous meetings in committee, we tried to show that, while at first, the government's proposal to introduce an objective system is correct, the exceptions it introduces, the number of exceptions that fall within them, the vague wordings that exist in many of the articles of this chapter are such that undermine this effort from the outset. We have been particularly concerned about the need for this new system, since it is truly objective, to have the necessary confidence in the executives who will be called upon to implement it. We insisted in particular that a serious reason for perpetuating the status of opacity and client-relations around the transfers is the direct involvement of the Minister and his Office in the whole process and we have proposed concrete changes, such as giving this responsibility to staff from the outset. And, unfortunately, the bill seems to me to guarantee this opacity now also institutionally. However, our main disagreement has to do with the provision of a number of exceptions, which not only circumvent the rule of minimum residence of the soldiers for five months at the border, undermining the service needs, but unfortunately not subject to specific social and economic criteria that have been described, press and maintain the veil that the government so much claims to remove. To say this more clearly, as the provisions of this bill have been structured, they are more likely to legitimise an existing situation of opacity, as it exists today, than to overthrow it. With regard to the remaining parts of the bill concerning the care of staff and education, the New Democracy has also shown in this bill that it is willing to support all those initiatives which give a solution to everything that is time-driven and which makes the lives of the personnel and staff of the Armed Forces difficult. However, what we cannot and will not support is all those concepts embodied in certain articles and which either undermine the functioning of the army and its hierarchical character or specifically inflame a sense of indignation and a minor effort to the executives, preventing them from daily giving their best self. In the first case, the reference shall be made to Article 20 and the second to Article 25 in conjunction with Article 29(3). Especially for the latter, all I have to add - and I will come back if necessary - is that, for the first time in this Parliament, the MPs are called upon to envy in addition to the glory of the legislator and that of the ratinger of the Armed Forces. Minister, I conclude with a comment on the procedure for the amendment introduced yesterday concerning Elefsina Shipyards. Indeed, this is a matter that we have been aware of for a long time and it is to you that we discussed it sometime in November at one - two meetings that we had. However, despite the fact - and I personally did not know - that this agreement was signed in December, I believe that the way the government put it is not honouring it. In other words, while the issue is not extremely urgent - in the sense that it could come to committee and discuss the content of the amendment - it has come to a relatively surpriseing point, so that there is no real discussion. I think I will return to the debate on the articles in more detail. Despite the fact that in its general part we are not opposed, we think there are some gray points to be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u57	The reason is the special speaker from the Golden Dawn Mrs. Ilias Kasidiaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u58	The Golden Dawn will vote against this bill at first. But this bill gives us a chance to talk about the Army. The army that some in this Chamber love him, while others in this Chamber hate him and have declared it publicly. When the Tsipra - Kammenos coup d'état took over, he had proclaimed many majorities of merit, that we will only have switched to fighting positions, that all men will go to Evros and no one in urban centres. Something went to be applied for a few weeks, for the sight and eyes of the world. All this in very short time, of course, proved to be air words and the plug lives and reigns! I shall now speak popularly, we have no reason to speak at a high point, which is the only opportunity for a Greek citizen to attend a speech from a representative of the Golden Dawn, which remains excluded from all the intermittent and systemic media. This draft law therefore promotes the notorious "pissum". I shall refer to specific articles that promote this misery. Other majorities have been said more recently, not only for the transfer of soldiers to fighting positions, but also for the militarisation of women and for military high school. None of this, of course, comes here in the House. No such legislation can be seen. All this was said about the channels because at the same time the same government passed the cohabitation pact and the Minister for National Defence of the ANELs wanted to keep one from his audience, which, of course, had hung out with all the disgraces that this conflict was voting on. Then, of course, I will mention the position of Golden Dawn on these issues - the issues of dignity in the army, the militarisation of women, the military high school - because you have often taken the positions of our party, you have made it a cardboard and you have put them as your proposals, which, of course, never apply. It is indicative to address the Armed Forces by Greece's current leadership. It is indicative and it is enough to see where the people who are currently in power today have served to understand how much of an appreciation they have of the army. The Prime Minister, then, - the alleged Prime Minister, if you like, because he simply obeys orders from foreign forces - served his service by a prick from PASOK on Chohatzopoulos. He even got deferred - listen, listen! - to take a candidate to the election. This is Tsipras. What, then, to tell us today of the SYRIZA - ANEL Co-government for the Armed Forces! Likewise, Kammenos, who served his term in the most experimental unit of the Air Force, in Kavouri Attica, next to, almost with his luxurious residence. So this is the love they have for the Army, and so it seems how well those who currently run Greece have served the Armed Forces of Greece! There are a number of provocative articles in this bill. Today's bill is a provocative piece of legislation on many points, to which I shall refer next. But I have an answer to the State Secretary present, who said that political purposes should remain outside the Armed Forces. I am in charge of answering him as to whether there were and there will be party purposes in the Armed Forces, as a member of the Golden Dawn Association. Some time ago, I had presented from the Step here of the House some shocking elements, the famous 'video Baltaku' for the interventions of the previous government in justice and the crimes committed against the Constitution. The other day, on this revelation, he takes a piece of paper to my brother, who had the misfortune of the man to be my brother and at the same time Chief of Staff at the 2nd Corps of Paratroopers in Aspropyrgos Attica, and tells him illegally, completely illegally, except for any legality: "Transition outside Special Forces. You go to Infantry for service.’ For party reasons! Finds Merarch after Alexandroupolis - why did they send him to Samothrace - and he says: “What, sir, will happen in my case? Is it possible to destroy an officer's career because his brother happens to be a member of the Golden Dawn?’ And the Mayor's answer was that "we are under pressure from the Prime Minister himself." He was referring to Samara. And in Tsipras - Burning the same things happen, because in the same case the man who had the misfortune to be my brother remained outside Special Forces. He referred to the Director of Special Forces, who said to him: “I can’t do anything. I can't bring you back to where you are legally belonging, where you really belong, because they're going to take us out. He waited three years and we see." The misery of party, micro-political purposes in the Armed Forces lives and reigns and there is no intention to change. And really, you've turned the country's Armed Forces into party feuds. And that is why, unfortunately, I say it from the Step of the House, unfortunately! - The Armed Forces today are incapable of safeguarding the borders of Greece, which have literally been done by swederi, not by a foreign army, but by illegal immigrants. And when I say that the Armed Forces are incapable, I don't mean that men don't have the skills. The men of the Armed Forces, officers, officers, soldiers, soldiers, really give a heroic fight. But what is lacking is the political will, with the loss of the integrity of the Armed Forces. Article 1 of this bill states that the Minister will have a say in the transfers of CCIs and of the soldiers. Oh, no! Transfers are only the responsibility of weapons leaders and senior officers. No political factor should play any role at all, whether institutionally or externally, with cardboards, as they have done up to now, for the transfer of the soldiers, because that is why all sense of sovereignty is being lost. So they ruled the bolts and false ones were your announcements when you took over the country’s rulership. In Article 3 we see something shocking. That's where some of the transfer criteria are mentioned. Of course, we agree with the case that an officer is a flattened officer. Of course, this man must be favored. It is fair to favour whether he is multiple and gives children home to serve the Armed Forces. But you are also saying here that a soldier who has been married to another soldier with the famous cohabitation pact is also favoured. In other words, it will come out in the order report, Corporal Mitsos, and will seek permission from the commander, because he wants to marry Sergeant Lucky. That's misery, isn't it? It's really about the fairs. This is where you legislate to make people laugh. But it's not about laughing or crying, because we're talking about the worthy of the army. And all these moves are not serious, not to say any heavier expression. Article 7 again upgrades the political plug, because the decision of the Minister can suspend criteria of the transfer molecule system. In other words, it is primarily a field of micropolitical activity by the Minister concerned. Does the Kammenos, the minister in office, want votes? It will suit five hundred, a thousand of his people and take the votes of the whole family. And I come to Article 12. Even greater misery, illegality and the destruction of the Constitution. Previously, the Minister proud that a number of refusal-to-military members of the committee came to the committee, a number of loots of various illegal committees, who should be in prison and not come to prison to talk about the army. Because favourable treatment towards conscientious objections is contrary, not only to existing legislation, but also to the Greek Constitution and is illegal. And a serious national state of all its militia must call them traitors and not bring them to the House. Incarceration in prison and forced works. This must be done. And if they want to, they should go to a unit to make a 50-mile march with an claw of three numbers closer. This is the solution for those who do not do what every Greek citizen must do to serve the country well and well. Of course, all of this is in Article 20 of the Armed Forces Support Office. That's why the Undersecretary was too proud. He'll take, he says, the soldier and denounce the administration. In other words, she'll call and say "the sergeant threw me on bending" or "they were calling forbidden slogans". You know, when we were serving in units, for example in Cyprus, the slogans against Turkey were forbidden, regardless of whether some honest and reputable commanders continue to say slogans against Turkey, they continue to say slogans against the enemies of Hellenism. Now if a soldier of left-wing opinions or neoliberal opinions hears the slogan: "Macedonia is Greek" or "one, two, three, break the border into Turkey", he will call the military support office, denounce it, denounces that he did not give him jam with breakfast, that he made bubbles from the arbyl, that he wants his mom and he can't take it anymore. Of course, we are not talking about moral and spirit alone, but about kindergarten or something worse. And that's how SYRIZA and ANEL coexistence promotes! And the Left and the so-called right! I also want to make a little reference to the Olympians, because a lot has been said and because now it is said in Article 27 that they are not required to be trained in theoretical and practical subjects of basic knowledge. We are, of course, honouring the Olympics for their offer at home, but it must not be the Olympics to be officers in the Armed Forces. We cannot allow them to command a spear, to make war, and the Olympics to show the soldier how to run in the hangar. They have nothing to do with the Armed Forces, the Army, the Air Force and the Navy. I want, in the brief time I have, to stress what the positions of the Golden Dawn Party are on the issues relating to military service, but also in general the national defence and security of the country. Many of these positions, as I said before, have been copied by various of the coup d'états and presented on the channels as their own to milk votes and, of course, when it comes to legislating, they do the opposite. In fact, the Golden Dawn says that it must be compulsory not only for men but also for women, with the exception of mothers, in the eighteen years. And all the exemption files must be opened immediately and severe penalties must be imposed on those who have deserted, using vigilant excuses and false documents. As far as women are concerned, I should like to make it clear that our aim is for women to serve in non-war positions, that is to say, to be in offices, not for men to occupy office seats, so that they are women at the General Staff on the Mediterranean Avenue and men on our borders, in Evros, which is required to be kept in the islands that invade daily illegal immigrants. All fighting positions of the land army and the rest of the weapons are occupied by men. Also, because the issue was raised by Elefsina Shipyards and the shipyard of warships, the position of Golden Dawn is the direct nationalization as well as the subsidisation of all the neo-Algerian Greek defence industries: Greek Air Industry, Greek Defence Systems and Greek Vehicle Industry, which are sold out with the Memorandum of the Right - PASOK and the Memorandum of the Left. Restructure their administrations and re-enter their experienced staff. And Greece being self-sufficient in weapons. Let Greece be able to produce its weapons. And Greece may build from the automatic rifles of the armies of the land army, up to underwaters and frigates. This will also stimulate the production sector and increase the jobs in Greece affected by the Memorandumary Policies. Of course, Golden Dawn speaks of opening up to the Russian player and a new defensive agreement with Russia. And - why not? - to provide a basis for Russia, which the Russians, the Aegean Sea, the island of Syros, Poros, and this agreement should also be at defence industry level for the production of weapons. We cannot buy weapons from the Americans and instead of co-production, we can obtain as a compensatory benefit the minister-in-Offices who are all currently covered by the Law on Responsibility of Ministers, who are not going to be abolished either by SYRIZA or on the Left or by anyone. Only by Golden Dawn can all these misery be abolished. And of course, above all, there must be a complete rehab of the permanent officials of the Armed Forces from the parties, the abolition of trade unionism in Armed Forces and Security Body, and a strict framework for the promotion of officers. The Minister and the State Secretarys of National Defence must come from the army and not be unrelated politicians, who have not captured a weapon in their lives and have no idea what a bullet is. Finally, I should like to refer to the major problem of our day, which is the preservation of the Greek borders. The Army must finally guard the Greek border. The Navy must preserve Greece's maritime borders, which have been swept by the Turkish slave traders. We are now threatened by foreigners, the European pimps, who are leaving Schengen. What exit from Schengen? In a few years' time, we will be a minority of Greeks in our country and, in order to avoid irreversible this crime, the Armed Forces of the country must today guard our borders. Finally, I have to say that today is a day of memory, as it was the memorial this morning of the national hierarch Archbishop Christoulos. No politician was present, of course, no MP from the House, except for the Golden Dawn, because if the Archbishop Christoulos lived today, it would be more difficult to betray the country in the way that today is betrayed. Of course, a tribute, because today was also the memorial of a great general, who was decorated for his war action on the forefront of Korea, crushed the Turks in 1964 with the famous ELDYK/M, the division, organizing special groups and, of course, with the famous battle of Mansoura tossed the enemy into the sea. The reason for the late General Nikos Dertilis. Their memory is eternity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u59	Mr Andreas Loverdos has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafili, has known him since the first year of law. For the first time in my life I see him with a tie. I hope he's put her on for a good reason and not for anything else. He's not here right now. He'll be here any minute. I saw him on the side. I wanted to raise this and I don't think you mind if I touch it from the Step of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u61	I've seen him before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u62	I've never seen him before. Before I come to the point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security we have worked on this issue during normal legislative work. That is why what the Deputy Minister, Mr Vitsas, said, has been accepted, and it seems to me that others will be accepted today. But why did that happen? It was because, firstly, we had a procedure - I say again in the Rules of Procedure - tactical and, secondly, because we did not shorten the time between first and second readings. So, then, there were all the margins and to understand the legislation, to try and approach its positive and negative ones, and to intervene. Mr. Vitsats was listening to a lot of this, which the Opposition and the Coup d'état on the side of the ramps tabled will be accepted. Good. However, basic problems remain open. I believe that by night we can resolve some of them and, where we disagree, express our disagreements. Now, before I came to the essence of this issue, as was the case again two months ago, colleagues - the beginning of December was this or at the end of November - while we were discussing a serious issue here, it was open on that day or those days the refugee - immigration, on the occasion of the closure of the borders in Idomeni. He had accepted the President at the time, and the government had responded, to take a break without interrupting, so that Deputy Minister Muzalas here would give clarification, because there was tension. This is also the case in these days, Mr President. I do not want to remain in the matter of Mr Kammenos's special responsibility with the statements he made that he will send us to the Netherlands and so on. or Mrs Christodoulopoulos. That's old times. I would like to point out, however, that it is a Minister, for whom we as Democratic Independence have made a number of praises. We've worked with him. I went and saw the Greek at the holidays. In an interview with me at the REAL radio station I talked about his attempt. Both Mrs Gennamas and PASOK yesterday criticised the European Union for some political actions these days. But we must also see what is happening with our own government. Every summit or Council of Ministers wants the Minister or Prime Minister to return with a city of migrants or refugees yet. From where we started with a city forty thousand, now we have to build a town like Thessaloniki. What's going on? What about these thoughts by Slovenian Prime Minister on Monday, 25 January, when we learn from Mr Juncker that he is positive about a bilateral agreement to close the border with FYROM? Mr Mouszalas, the same day at the FINANCIAL TIMES, states that Greece has not received any message in this regard, has not been consulted in this regard. It is precisely the same day that the Belgian Prime Minister is taking the initiative in the same direction. What's going on? Will you tell us two words about this today? The House is open. We did it, Mr. President. The Deputy Minister responded, the Chamber honoured him, and we ask him to do this again today. If he is in Athens, he should be here to inform the House throughout the plenary session of its legislative work. I now come to the principle of the draft law. What is the beginning of this draft law, ladies and gentlemen? It results from its exact title. That's not always the case. He talks about the movements, the transfer of soldiers, the care of officials as permanent in the Greek Army, the care of staff and other provisions. That's right. The first section relates to the transfer of soldiers, the second and third sections to care issues. We are making a negative position in principle, but, as has been pointed out in the committee, in Articles 1 to 7. And we are making a negative position, because here, ladies and gentlemen, it is, as has already been said by colleagues, one of the remaining outbreaks of the client state in Greece. They have too many wounds of a client state healed. The Peponnes law was the most characteristic case. But some of them remain open. A Member of Parliament is aware of this. The moves of the soldiers are one of the remaining wounds, and we have to cure it. We must heal a problem of Greek democracy, of the Greek state which has not been cured. This is the key to the substance of the draft law, although the smallest. It's the first articles. But its importance, its seriousness, its size as a problem, requires us, once we have disagreed, to express a negative opinion on the principle - not to make roll-call votes - waiting, if necessary, for some explanations to be made by the end of the sitting - although I do not see it anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder which of the issues the first section of the draft law wishes to regulate is now unregulated. Today, the customer state is keeping it well on the subject of transfers. There's always a move when the new Minister of National Defence takes over. But that is at the outset. It's not an extravagance or an addition to what I'm going to say. A Member of Parliament who served his military service in the Air Force speaks to you. At the time when I served it - I was the sixth series in 1979 - I was considered 'unwanted' - and I was told this - by my officers because of my action in the student movement. I have fulfilled my term of office and I am here today because I have not been a "proof". I am here today, and I am a speaker, without having been a prick. Whoever has been a "spot", "hitari", "chops" as we would say in the Army, it would be nice not to speak here today, because someone would tell them. When you address the National Representation, you have to expect everything. So I say that he wants to solve these issues the first section of the bill, namely the issues of the client state. Is he solving them? We have a doubt and an objection. What's our doubt? We're not experts. I, Mr. Minister, have not been through this ministry. So - and here is my doubt - I am learning to ask you: everything you say 'criteria' and the relevant ones, are they already regulated by staff orders or by any other kind of arrangements? Is it something that rounds them or puts them into a law arrangement, while in life they really exist? What do you add to what is happening today? If you don't add something, then the client state will continue to operate exactly the same way I'm telling you, you're not adding anything. But very much, my ears will be open to hear what you say. Secondly, we have also discussed the Commission and it remains as a matter of this: colleagues, the responsibilities of the general staff here are determined to become the minister's responsibilities. He'll sign the transfers. Two considerations: First, these responsibilities today are at the Staff Regulations. You have a problem...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u63	I'll sign them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u64	What's added? So there is not what I was saying in the committee - and we are clarifying it here - that is, lack of authorization, which you want to cover today. In other words, the law regulates you and you're transferring authority over staff. My view - and I told my colleagues too - is that they probably do not want to retain such competence. There is no legal competence specified in the law, so the Minister is responsible for it, to give it up. Is that possible? If you have it today and you sign it, what is added here? Then the repetition declares a continuation of the will, that the Minister keeps the rousfetti, because the legislator is free here. That is not regulatory competence. It's administrative. The command of the Army. Give it to the staff directly. Why don't you give her to the staff? Why do you have to keep her? Do you like it? Doesn't he add any headaches? You don't have requests from all of us? That's how it's done. Every one passing through this post has these headaches. Why? We therefore object here, Minister. Doubt on the first issue, objection to the second one. And listen to something, ladies and gentlemen, that I have said to the committee and that creates the problem, which requires that we lift the client state from there. What's the big body? The Great Body is the Dry Army and the Air Force and the Navy are smaller bodies. When the citizens pass through the evaluation to our sixteen, seventeen, there are 'periods' that we have been talking about, about where we will rank, any families who have been anaphysical - since - for the cancancers are making moves. The fewer will go to the privileged bodies. Most of them will go to the Drought Army. After you rank, the legislator who solved correctly in the past - I don't remember when, I think we did it, but I don't remember - the problem of changing the House said that it might be permitted if when you were a kid, you had a student's capacity and then you became a aeronautical. We're joining the Dry Army. We're changing your body. That seemed to be solved. I don't know. In the day-to-day operation it seemed the legislator did his job. But, where you're going before there's a need to change the House, most of them are not privileged. There is no, here, Minister - I do not know - how to solve this and there is no feeling that I am going to this House and that the other one is going there? There isn't. You don't solve that. One of the prisoners. Secondly, let's see how the Greek Armed Forces are ordered. In most parts of the country - look at our borders - there is an army of Xyras, less the Navy, less the Air Force. Here, Minister, where the arithmetic criterion is inconsistent, how do you intervene to solve the problem of where the soldier is going? It's going to, it says, necessarily six months' border. Since you don't have so many seats to cover the whole ERC six months at the border, how do you get discrimination? These questions need answers. And since the answers have not been given - convincingly at least - we maintain our disagreement at the outset and we will vote 'in the face'. However, ladies and gentlemen, in the other cases of the articles, the second and third sections, we find very positive elements. Some of us have prepared them, and they have come from this government with this legislative initiative. We'll vote for them. I applaud the importance of the regulations in Article 12, an article which concerns irresponsible and conscientious objections, but which is not complete. I will see you in the debate. I'm enjoying it. I like the importance of this article. We shall vote for it by force, in fact, as well as Articles 9 and 10, but also many of the articles of the draft law. I ask you until this afternoon's sitting to pay attention to what the Scientific Research Directorate says about Article 13(2) in matters of proficiency. He asks for something to be added, which you can do so that there is no appeal problem then. This is our first position, ladies and gentlemen. And we will be exactly in this style - and I and our parliamentary representative, Mr Theocharopoulos - and in the debate on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, since they participated in the educational programme "1974, the Rehabilitation of the Republic", which organizes the Foundation of the Parliament, thirty two students and students and two educational attendants from the Hellenic Faculty of "Evreios Delkrouas". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Canelle from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say here that we do not have so close legs that memory. We heard something anniversary today. May I remember the Imias? Twenty years! Remember them with the permission of this House? Because we are talking about officers, because we are talking about borders, if something is worth remembering today, it is precisely the date and the beginning of the break-up of the zones in the Aegean Sea, which twenty years later, like today, with the governments responsible for the European Union, responsible above all for NATO, with our participation in all the imperialist plans until now, we have not faced the crisis, nor the gray one, we have deleted and we are talking about a greater war in the region, which includes us with hundreds, hundreds and hundreds, and, unfortunately, with a few thousands of children drowned in the Aegean. We wouldn't mind - we have three officers dead - if we wanted to talk in the first place. This principle in this bill, Minister, wants, as it says, to regulate arms transfer issues. We also told you in the Committee of Members, exhausting good faith, saying that if you lower the tons and don't triumphantly talk about something that breaks down the Rusfetti, revolutionaryly cleanses the Armed Forces, it collects everything within the Armed Forces and it all becomes goods. You knew it wasn't true. It's a procedure. Ten problems that life gives rise to, conditions and today you have tried to deal with. Poorly, however, to a significant extent. I will tell you, and I will tell you politically, that we will vote 'in principle' in the first place. Because if you were to help, you would accept a legal intervention of mine, which concerned people who are drug users, and the way in which they should be certified at their own discretion, but with public authorities whether they have finished or have not finished their problem and have to invoke it there. This does not make you open to the proposals of the Communist Party. You did not have the courage to accept an amendment. And it's not the first time! A hundred amendments have been tabled since you took over. Many times you take some things and then apply them as measures so that you do not accept an amendment from the Communist Party. Especially here for the fantasies, what did it cost you, if you want to relieve? Tell me, what cost you the free ticket in urban transport for going - come and accept the amendment? Why didn't you have the courage to do it at first since you want to help? What would cost you a 50% discount on the other means of transport for the lantern? What would cost you? If you want to believe - why should it be - that it is flesh from our flesh, especially from the soldiers, the children who go to serve the country compulsory during the Constitution, why do you not accept it? Didn't you accept an amendment that says free skeletons and shoes in the Army? Are we talking about self-evident? You will tell me that you need an amendment and a legalization. Yes, I do! Because in these nine months, in these circumstances, the soldier who goes to serve his term, pays too much attention and suffers it as if it were punishment, when in already winter families without a pension, without salaries, families of the unemployed, the costs of survival are also borne for the basics: shoes, dresses and trousers. Do you want to make the aid substantial? Would it cost you anything to accept that? Where and how far is it outrageous and you do not accept the amendment? Even if you changed it. We are currently discussing pension and insurance with people on the road and you in here to bring initiatives and issues, to make festivals, to make videos, to do what you want. On the substance, should those who are not, as well as their protected members, not be insured while they are in the Army, and should they count for pensions? Is the month gonna hurt? You did not accept this amendment either. We talked about the organization at the Order level, the organization of the soldiers, which will be able to claim. Of course, there's a report. Of course we encourage soldiers as units not to be afraid, to go out in the report, to say their problems. What would there be on the basis of a Order level? Left you say you are. From the base of the soldiers! Nine months are soldiers. What would it matter that they could collectively ask for things, point to mistakes? What are you afraid of? Are you afraid of the team? What's to be formed? Antarctic will be formed? What will you have? You'll have the Baudy rebellion if they gather soldiers and talk to a level about their problems? We have asked you to incorporate in one of the amendments the possibility of recreational work. People don't have to eat! Their mother doesn't have to eat! Their grandmother doesn't have to eat! They're going to the military with 8 euros a month. Tell me, are they going to the movies or theater? With 8 euros a month, in conditions of absolute poverty, what would you mind passing this amendment and while soldiers are able to be viewed? Remembrance of a measure of great and perfection! Megalostoms about theatre from morning to night, the cinema, the book, the culture. Why does the soldier have to be really veiled? That would be real aid. A free ticket, a free clothes. Don't make it 8.50 euros. But even the 8,50 euros in some may seem a lot when there is not one. Where is the difficulty of accepting this? These were immediate measures. Here and now! If we look at each other, they don't cost anything. Nothing! The policy obviously costs you if you accept an amendment from the Communist Party! We made a lot of remarks to you. You're talking about difficult conditions. Do you have a member of the JRC who goes to the European Parliament and ask the Commissioner: Are you talking about the borders, about the ghosts at the border? So, we're hiding the truth from the Greek people? Is FRONTEX only in the Aegean, or is it going to the border with Skopje? Frontex went to the Skopje border too. On the same terms as the Greek lantern did FRONTEX go there? With the same pants, the same clams, the same shoes, the same food? Who's gonna guard the border? We made a deal. FRONTEX went to the Skopje border. Who are we talking about? Papadakis goes and asks the Commissioner responsible: Say for safekeeping. Which border are you referring to? To the internationally recognized country with Turkey or to what Turkey claims to be its own, today, the Imia plus many other gray parts of the Aegean? You know what he said? Do you know what the answer, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen? Do you know what official response he got? 'I cannot answer your question'. What borders are we talking about when we talk about Greece in the European Union and in FRONTEX, which will help to tackle the crisis, so that we do not become a warehouse, so that we do not become the other one? So where is the will, for simple, everyday, real things that count? Article 1 anyway leaves all the scope for the management of the personnel of the Armed Forces for interests which your Communist Party has proved to be - and unfortunately it is also demonstrated by the reality - that it is not Greek. It's not! We have put the country, the blood, the wealth, the funds, the soul, the trade unions' struggles to serve other interests. You cannot claim that NATO is not an odd interests. We've got two speed armed forces anyway, one that serves navals by 40% and 60% that remains to keep the ground, to say big talk. Do we have a doctrine that is truly defensive and dissuasive, which refers to the concept of fair war? We don't have it! We have national obligation missions. National obligation is to maintain FRONTEX. Mr Minister, now, frankly, with the hand of the heart, the privileges of FRONTEX from here have been passed by this Parliament! It's Vatican! In the middle of Piraeus, neither are the officials being taxed, nor are the officials being prosecuted, and we are now coming and discussing whether we have or do not have the money and the willingness to support the phantom in his national obligation? You've solved a few issues. No one's gonna ignore it to you. You have also seen our good will. In a number of articles - I can say in most - we say 'yes'. The host families would not benefit from these three amendments that we have told you, in order to support both morally and mentally and in fact the fantasy, and in the end would not hear that one child leaves and may be cut off, because they might also be the only source of income for families? He's gonna let the kid go to the spectacle, and the hunger and the Lord are coming to cut off the families! We have asked you to guarantee the rights of the permanent officials of the Armed Forces and to recognise the Unions of the military and the Panhellenic Federation of Military Associations during the Areopagus and to have no obstacle to participation in them. If you have confidence in the people in uniform - either temporarily or permanently - that should not scare you. They had to be here! Other things shouldn't have this bill. Other things! In particular, the hypocrisy that everything can end with a law and with a word and not with a fundamental change, in depth, of mentality. Every time a delicate issue of human rights comes in front of the uniform, it opens up sluts to others to exploit it. Everyone's talking about breaking the egg and the snake that's gone out. This snake is not treated with them. It is treated with soldiers who do not want to serve - both denies make a categorical assumption - who do not do so with gravitation. Homeland is people! Homeland is the people first! If they do not live in their homeland, they will not be able to say that you are talking about a democratic organization. We have not proposed anything that is 'attending and outrageous'. We'd have a conversation. We also told you that for a period of time after he ceases to be a soldier, so he won't be uninsured. It's not an early retirement. Many times bills have been opened here in the name of five, ten, twenty-square pounds. And it comes to justify, in fact, the undemocratic, incredibly conservative view of the uniform application of measures, which are allegedly intended to harm the bad ones. There was room for this bill, precisely because it was in a procedural, regular form and because it had also been discussed thoroughly and because the bodies were also heard. For example, what were you expecting? To come in and tell you at battalion level that it would be a good thing if there were a club, a piece, where the lanterns would go and see things collectively? Did you expect there to be? What would happen? Did you expect there to be a group of bodies that will talk to you about collective begging? You know, he's got a dignity. Talks have been heard here, masturbations. Many of them do not include women, but only as "bottles", as "meson", as "scatter". That's what they heard. Another type of racist position has been heard, completely sexistic, about what women should be in the army, or something like getting inside and being the legal cleaners for men to go to the border! There's gonna be a fire to burn us in a country with Greek women in the Resistance with a gun in the hand! There will be a fire to burn us, in other words, when things like this sound in here and do not vanquish, and we do not stand up! The imprecise of the molecule cannot exist since the molecule is fluid. How will it be inconsistent with the molecules after they have changed the criteria? It contains the contradictions of this policy, an attempt to make social policy through the army by making certain issues for this to appear democratic. It is not true, since the limits of molecule change. But here we have come to change the scores, to change one thing, to change the other, to change things that we have discussed in committee in principle. This host who goes today and who can tomorrow be found, either as a volunteer or as the state decided, or because NATO told us, to serve in Darfur, Kandahar, here or there, along with him, in the North, in the South, someone who believes, someone who doesn't believe, someone who answers "I don't know what borders you have" to a communist MEP. 'I don't know', he says, 'What borders'! This phantom, how are we going to deal with him if we don't treat him like what he really is? You will tell me every time the Communist Party speaks, it does not forget the word 'people'. We're not talking about a people's army. You're talking about an army of the people. If we were talking about a people's army... But do not tell me that three amendments, our own, would make you feel chilling, because you would find yourself in the face of a situation like this which you could not get through either economically or disciplinaryly or anything! If you don't trust the Greek fantasy to formulate his request collectively and feel well that he wears the uniform and the shoes, which if they break down, you give them to him, what am I supposed to say to you? If we go to the cheese pie level, then I honestly say it to you, I don't think anyone could vote more than 'against'. We are forced to turn it into 'in principle', despite the articles that we will be voting on, because the assurance and will do nothing to solve the problems of the soldier today, or certain officials or issues arising in the Armed Forces are neither ideological nor political nor any other will to deal with really different and really radically. If these amendments were revolution, then you won!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u67	Please come to Stepma, the special speaker of the river, Mr. Spyridon Dannelis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, with the acceptance of the Commission's report by the College of Commissioners, the process of making recommendations to Greece began with the threat of the application of Article 26 of the Schengen Code, waking up the nightmare that until the day before were spelling out government officials, assuming that there is just one in the minds and intentions of some who are in charge of our country. It is an extremely serious matter, because it creates a new reality in our relationship with the rest of Europe and in this extremely critical and difficult context. It is quite serious for it to be discussed in an organised manner, and that is why we are asking for the appropriate Minister, Mr Muzala, to be informed instantly. Of course, since we are discussing a bill by the Ministry of Defence, I cannot help but mention, Minister, the clear head of Mr Musala that the Minister of National Defence did not make it easier for him to demonstrate his refusal or indifference to provide facilities - such as concessions for the creation of hotspots or other services - so that our country would be in line with its obligations to ensure adequate border conservation. We therefore reserve and call for the immediate, official and complete information on where we are and what we do in the next quarter. Ladies and gentlemen, by coming to the bill now, I would like to congratulate the Minister, because with today's bill we are returning to the appropriate legislative procedures. It is a bill that passed through the public consultation process, as laid down in the Law on Good Legislation. We have had four meetings of the relevant Commission. The second reading was made by a one-week difference from the completion of the first reading procedures. We got the legislative improvements in time. We are waiting - because we have not yet taken them into our hands, and here is the only black point, the exception to good legislation - to present the amendments to which you have referred today, Minister, to see how this process will be completed. I certainly hope that this practice will continue. Minister, under the title of the bill you say that you want to solve a chronic pathogen that has been employing at least half the Greek population, the males. Of course, we must be honest. Both the ranking in a body or a weapon of the army, as well as the consequent transfer, is usually the first contact of the citizens with the customer logic and logic of the ruffet. There are few Greeks who did not think, search or eventually end up at the door of a local stateman or a compatriot, in order to secure them the ranking in a noble body or a favorable transfer later. Of course, even for those who did not choose to enter the process, for their own reasons, taking continuous deferrals due to studies or professional obligations - mainly abroad - and who are facing the process of entrepreneurialisation as a lasting negligence that cannot be closed down. We believe that you are dealing with and regulating some such loose ends in order to resolve these issues smoothly and to proceed with our compatriots in the next stage of their lives. Does this draft law correct all the pathogens to which I have usually referred? We have to admit that so far there has been no clearly defined institutional framework for the transfers of confiscated soldiers. As a result of this reality, the transfer of the soldiers to a seemingly painless, but extremely extensive transaction between the citizens on the one hand and the entire political system on the other. I shall therefore repeat that, beyond the institutional framework and the provisions introduced, there must be the political will to implement the legal framework and we hope in this political will. This bill hopes that it will help to establish another concept. It is clear that this will put an end to a bad tradition. This tradition is not yesterday. It lasts almost two centuries from the establishment of the new Greek state and the establishment of the military service, either through a draw earlier or through the total militarisation of the male population. It's strong and it's deep-rooted. It is therefore clear that we need to come up with an institutional framework, which will lay rules in the game and there will be a transparent procedure for monitoring compliance with these rules. So, then, an easy-to-use, operational and transparent transfer system is the beginning of the transition to another culture, to another approach, to a difficult subject anyway for everyone, such as the question of militarisation and term of office. The draft law outlines a system for the placement and transfer of soldiers by mobilisation, based on formal and social criteria, but also on the operational and service needs of the Armed Forces, as is reasonable. In particular, in the first part, which refers to the shifts made by the soldiers, Articles 1 to 7, we consider that the moleculation system which is useful and clearly improveable in the present situation is not complete. Let us note, of course, that, anywhere in the civilised and prosperous world, the positions and transfers of the soldiers are the work of some executive directorate and of course they are not concerned with the political or military leadership of the Armed Forces. We also believe that the reference to a ministerial decision on the molecularisation system, while we could have discussed the draft law and clarified who would have this competence - and there is no need for the Minister to have it by adopting a ministerial decision on the grounds of substance and symbolism - demonstrates the fragmentation of the regulation and perhaps an existing maintenance of the existing situation. We believe that the existence of a separate committee of inquiry for the exceptional placement and transfer of at least a small percentage does not serve the purpose of this draft law and it is not simply a question of further clarification of the composition of the committee, because only the reference to the number of members - and that it will be defined by industry - as is done in your corrective action, is not enough. In fact, with Article 5 and paragraph 4 of Article 6, you are actually implicating the philosophy of regulation. What do we define as an exceptional case of placements and transfers that are not included in the provisions already provided for in paragraph 10 of Article 3? I will come back to this crucial issue for us in the debate on the articles. A large number of gunmen are excluded from the system of quantification due to social problems. There is a detailed record of these categories. I do not know why it is advisable to provide for the exclusion of a bandwidth of up to 2% of each ESS. Do you think that's how we eliminate pathogens? You have previously highlighted the importance of social and economic criteria and you have anticipated the exclusion of several categories of soldiers because of serious problems. We agree this way. At least we need an explicit clarification of this 2%, which we consider to be referring to about seven hundred with eight hundred soldiers in each ESS, a sufficient number. Let us at least clarify and describe so that we do not allow the logic of the ruffles to function out of the window, because that is how the philosophy of your legislation is undermined. The second part of the bill refers to the care of staff, from Article 8 to 20. We agree with the effort to connect a term of office to the professional course of two specific professional sectors, doctors and graduates of legal schools, in order to make use of the term as a useful time for completing the field for doctors or exercise for legal scientists. Of course, we must be careful about equal rights and equal opportunities, that is, equality between those who have to serve their service. With regard to the provision of Article 12, which recognises twenty days of service for the over thirty-five, we consider it to resolve a number of issues for a competent number of our new compatriots who have been suffering for years. I thank the Minister for accepting the amendment we tabled. I think it justifies this procedure. It shows a sensitivity, especially at the very difficult times that we are going through, where the young Greek scientists, who wanted to take advantage of this opportunity so that they could enter a normality in their lives and their families, to a large extent, the price they were asked to pay was high. So, thank you again for accepting our amendment. The streamlining of the price to be paid by the young people who want to take advantage of this opportunity will be more reasonable in terms of the difficulties of the times. The third part of the bill, which refers to further academic training of the Armed Forces' officials, agrees with us that the possibility of undergraduate and postgraduate studies for all permanent military personnel, without any distinction being made between officers and officials. We believe that it is in the right direction and that it enhances the quality of the personnel of the Armed Forces, which is essential for modernising, integration into the new international reality of increased operational requirements. However, we disagree with the spirit, but also with the feasibility of changing the scale of the rating of the schools and schools of the Armed Forces. Retrospective and force creates many issues that we do not think it is appropriate to open up. That is why this article - we will also be voting in the afternoon - will not vote in favour of it. In relation to Article 31 and the arrangements facilitating the exercise of duties of military personnel elected to local government, we are pleased that you have accepted our proposals for express reference to the implementation of the entire facility framework offered to other civil servants and officials elected to local government, which was not the case until now. In order to address this particular problem as a whole, but also to deal with it fairly and fairly, an additional provision is needed, which we will propose tonight in the discussion in greater detail tonight, in order to extend the scope of these rights to the militant representatives who are serving in local government. As little as they are, there are new children who have been elected to local government, which would make it easier for them to carry out their duties in self-government to have these facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today, despite its weaknesses, has a clear positive sign. That is why we are saying 'yes' in principle, of course once again, that our party, Potami, does not exercise a sterile opposition. It supports what, in our view, they are trying to rationalise procedures by putting an end to chronic pathogens that concern this extremely critical and sensitive area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u69	Before giving the floor to Mr Konstantinos Katsikis, whom I would ask to come to Stepma slowly, I would like to ask, if possible, that we shorten the procedure as a whole. When the Members who are registered begin to speak - with the permission, anyway, of the Bureau - they can also speak about the articles if they wish to do so so that we do not need to have registered speakers this afternoon, as we now have nineteen. To be few, in other words. I am not talking about the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives. Typically, these people have a say in the afternoon. What time they're going to use is their thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, is there no way the meeting will go on and on?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u71	We will see that, Mr Loverdo, because we need to change now to the shifts of the Bureau. We're talking about this, too. I have merely asked my fellow Members to speak, if they so wish, with the Bureau's permission and with the articles, so that we do not have so many people this afternoon. Mr. Katsiki, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion and voting is an important bill for the operation of our country's Armed Forces. In my speech, I will override the technical details and focus on the substance. The fundamental objective of the bill is to finalise customer transfers. With the vote on this bill, we end the opaque procedures. SYRIZA - ANEL, in line with its commitments, is simultaneously paving the way for the implementation of its programme to combat corruption and strengthen democracy. The main objective of this bill is the introduction of a complete moleculation system, so that military transfers and positionings are carried out in an absolute transparency regime. In the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, during the debate on the draft law, no representative of the parties that held power in the past did his own self-criticism for the customer relations of the political system. That's what we pay today. The need for change is strong and recognised by the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point let me mention some of the important changes made by the bill. First of all, economic and social criteria are laid down for the first time. This is very important to us, because until now, the conditions for the living of the soldiers have never been examined, as they should, because of the economic crisis which is plagued by our country. SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence in this way shows her social face and provides as much help as possible to these groups. Furthermore, another feature of the legislation is the proper use of human resources. A consistent request from the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, which enables armed doctors to serve their service in Health Centers and hospitals of remote and island regions, is met. This is how we help to fill the gaps that exist in these health units, especially the Aegean islands, which are also facing the most serious problems because of the refugee problem. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] A similar arrangement is established for law-makers as well. For the first time, it is defined that Armed Forces Support Offices are set up and run by General Staff, which are intended to support soldiers, especially during their first phase of ranking in the Armed Forces. We must ensure their proper functioning and ensure that the complaints assessed as serious are examined and not filed. At this point we must stress that arrangements are being promoted, such as the reduced working hours without a similar reduction in remuneration for military and military judges who are caring for a child or a disabled spouse or the extension of the work rehabilitation of family members, brothers or parents of fallen persons in the performance of an orderly service from one to two people. There is also a right to classify in the branch served by the deceased parent for pupils of military schools who are children of fallen soldiers. The above provisions, combined with the other provisions, are expected to alleviate their military as well as their families. With regard to the training of military personnel, this draft law enables those who so desire to obtain permission to participate in undergraduate or postgraduate programmes of Higher Education Institutions in the home or abroad, if their training is aimed at their scientific training. The pupils of military schools, who are children of deceased officers at war or peace in the performance of their duties, are also given the opportunity to be allocated to officers in the branch of the deceased parent if they so wish. Finally, as Independent Greeks we are voting in favour of this bill. It is pleasant for us that the majority of the factions said they would do the same to maintain at high levels the worthy and functioning of the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Katsiki. Before we move to the next special speaker, let me make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the Arsaceio of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the special speaker of the Centroon Union, Mr Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, pending the implementation of the decision of the Council of State on the restoration of salaries and pensions of members of the Armed Forces, while we are waiting for the use of the few resources of the Ministry of National Defence - as it is already known that the state budget should cut off some 350 million in the year - while the army is called upon to maintain a high degree of discrepancy and preparedness in order to defend national sovereignty under conditions that test human tolerances, at the same time, when the risks are increasing and the challenges are growing, Parliament is facing a step back. It has been trying for the first time in the last forty years to put a order in the degree of involvement of political and party people in matters of purely operational nature, such as meeting the needs of staff and their transfer status. We are trying to limit the customer treatment of military personnel and their moral deception. That is what we are doing at first today. And since we have been given the opportunity to study properly and to be able to make a contribution by the Vice-Presidents, as it is the first serious bill that does not come to us in the shameful procedures of urgency, and in particular, when we are going to legislate on issues relating to officials serving in the sensitive area of National Defence, we must be extremely careful and make decisions on criteria of unanimity and consensus. Today it comes to regulate, even late, an issue that has signalled Greek society over time. The transfer of the soldiers and the transfer to the military in general have been linked - I would say that in some cases they have been identified - in the sense of the rosphet. It is a concept that has raised the political system for decades and has enabled the political consciousness of their soldiers and their families to be altered, on the one hand, and, on the other, the belief in volunteering at home. The responsibilities of the previous governments are great. With this bill, there is a serious attempt to disembowel the army - and with him Greek society - by the lack of clear and transparent transmission frameworks. The introduction of a moleculus system, the use of the Internet, the updating of the candidate soldiers, and the fact that the host's opinion on the transfer will now be formally and unequivocally taken into account, are indeed necessary to ensure the correct application of Articles 3 and 4. If we ensure it, we will be able to talk about a genuinely serious reform of the Armed Forces. With regard to the operation of the committee to examine the exceptional placement and transfer, we have to comment on how it should be exemplary and, in any case, subject to regular scrutiny, perhaps by the Minister himself, as the performance of this committee will be passed and the message of what changed to the famous committees of the Armed Forces. I would like to focus on Article 8 and point out that the fact that the association of agricultural and military time for doctors has been a request against bureaucracy and inefficiency for decades. The same applies to the possibility afforded by Article 9 for young lawyers to fulfil the exercise time laid down for obtaining a licence for the profession. These are self-evident things that should have already been done. Article 10 speaks of recognition of service as useful, as something that should be counted on the formal qualifications of our soldiers and referring to their curriculum vitae in the way it suits someone who has served the country. Depreciation of term as a waste of time is another symptom of the general relaxation of institutions, which imposed the rotting political system, so that he can make his jobs undisturbed. The use of a proper and effective way of offering our soldiers' work will develop the morality not only of the army, but of the whole society. The Greek society needs to remember that military service is not a waste of time. And now I would like to come to the amendments for a moment, Mr Minister, which have been tabled to you and which you have actually not accepted. I guess some of you accepted and some of them didn't. The amendment, signed by my fellow Member, Mr Spyros Danellis, which you have accepted, rightly asks the legislator to take into account the economic situation of our fellow citizens who will be invited to buy the rest of their term of office. There should be no exterior approach to the redemption of the term of office. We hope that the relevant ministerial decisions will regulate this in a fair and sustainable way. We are positive about this amendment to the river. We cannot understand what essentially criteria you did not accept the three amendments of the Communist Party. We can't figure out why you didn't accept them. Of course, military service must be recognised as a retirement insurance period. It is also right to commit ourselves to the free medical and hospital treatment of our soldiers and their families. The purpose is to motivate oneself to serve proudly rather than threatening one with fines. Besides, everyone who knows, they know that in the army of those who don't want to be there, they don't want them, nor do those who are in it. We need confidence among men, which is achieved by merital motives and fair treatment. Of course we should be well dressed, Minister. This also concerns an amendment that brought forward - and you did not accept - the JRC. Of course they should not pay tickets for their services by public transport. With regard to the amendments tabled by colleagues on the government line, I have been waiting, to be honest, for a little more and, above all, I have been waiting for you to take note of the conclusions of the Central Association. I have not seen anything predict the abolition of the criterion of the degree of affinity for the strains of the Armed Forces who are caring for MEDA. So what do we have to do to convince you that it doesn't matter at all that the degree of affinity when you're responsible for living with a programme adapted to the needs of a disabled person? Please, you have the time by this afternoon to fix it on your own initiative even today. I invite you to do it. To equate all members who are proven to be caring for AME, regardless of the degree of affinity with their care and care for the disabled. I invite you to help me correct this injustice. You have time, Minister. Let's make it reality. For the other amendments and for our final attitude to the vote in this House, we will await your reaction by the afternoon on this very important subject. I am pleased that our objections to the injustices of conscience and the irresponsible ones have been heard about dealing with them at a legal level, as they were borne by parallel fines, for the same reason, which, as you know is outside the spirit of the constitutional legislature, which provides and imposes equal treatment for all. We recognise the efforts of a new start on the issues of militarisation, evaluation committees and military excellence. We are waiting, I repeat, for your initiative on the degree of affinity for small and mediumsized enterprises and we will return to the debate on the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Before starting with the circle of speakers on the list, the Minister has asked the floor for his intervention. Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u76	My speech is about two amendments which have been tabled and which will be shared. Of course I'm accepting them. The first amendment is from the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and concerns the term of office of the Chief of Greek Police, which is why Mr Toskas is here. I read them and they'll be distributed to you. This amendment has a general number of 166 and a special number of 19. The amendment tabled by the Ministry of the Environment and I accept it, with the general number 165 and the number 18, has to do with an urgent matter concerning the duration of fuel storage contracts, so it will also be shared with you. Since I have taken the floor, I would like to make a clarification on Mr Dannelly's amendment that I have accepted. Let me make it clear that the Joint Ministerial Decision must be of the Ministers for National Defence and Economic Affairs, not of the Ministers for Economy and Finance alone, as Mr Dannellis has said in arrears. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Obviously, they will be distributed, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u78	Yes, of course, I will.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u79	Mr Dendias also asked for a brief speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u80	For a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u81	Here, you have a minute, Mr. Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, our position on this piece of legislation, namely from the Minister's position on two issues, which, ladies and gentlemen, are of major importance. The first relates to Article 1(2), in which the position is expressed that the Minister of National Defence decides and implements the positions, secondments and disposals of the Armed Forces staff. I would like to say straight away that we consider this provision to be absolutely unacceptable. And nothing changes her the fact that you have the ability to delegate this responsibility, which you reserve for yourself, the Chiefs of Staff, etc. We want to know, then, whether you are thinking or want to think during the debate to change this provision. The second, which we consider to be absolutely unacceptable and on which our position in the legislature also depends, is the transitional provision in Article 29(3), with which you are well aware, that you are in fact creating issues for all the crises of the Armed Forces in recent years and clearly seeking to create a year of your choice. If you do not change your position in these two, which, ladies and gentlemen, please look at them, are universally unacceptable, we cannot vote. It has nothing to do with the position of the New Democracy nor with the whole philosophy of a resolution law. They are unacceptable both in principle and in terms of the wording of all procedures in the Armed Forces. We therefore want, Minister, to know whether you are thinking of withdrawing or amending these provisions, so that we may be placed accordingly. I have also listened to my colleague, the majority rapporteur on matters relating to land registers. We have no objection to discussing this, but fundamental decency, I think, requires in this case that the amendment should not be accepted by the Deputy Minister of National Defence. To come to us by the Minister responsible, to explain to us the necessity of the provision, and then we will be happy to see it positively.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Minister, do you want the floor now? Other questions may arise along the way. I'm saying a thought, a suggestion. Do you want to answer Mr. Treasury immediately?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u84	I would like to respond immediately, just to think about it, too. As far as the issues which are concerned with who exercises political control are concerned, I think it will be strange, if not unheard of, that the House itself should assume the role that the Constitution gives it over all these years, and that is what Mr Denkias has done when he was Minister of National Defence. I have stated very clearly that we have control - and I shall then speak about the articles - and in the most official way I have said that after the process of moleculosis, which I will be talking about next, this responsibility will be given to the General Staff, which is already assumed by the law itself when we are talking about exceptions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u85	Take off the word "can be", if that's the way you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u86	This is my location, Mr. Treasury. You, too, can be placed. On the second point, I would like to say that there are two debates to which we must now speak and speak clearly. Who did or prepared a whole yearbook to control the Armed Forces? I will speak quite clearly on this matter. The military junta. The military junta, in order to prepare all officers afterwards, put to the highest degree beyond the university - nobody would say - rational, the issue - and of course, it worked on this level - of this high not just score, which is something that you can talk about, but that this high score affects the entire career and life of the officer. And I'm telling you that the military officer, the officer, can't finish his career in twenty-five, thirty years, and there are second issues except the rating itself. Isn't that his operational capacity? Isn't that his administrative capacity? Aren't the years? So why deprive us of this logic, if you like, of this possibility? Mr. Dendias raises this issue on retroactiveity. I removed the retrospectiveness and put the Council - which was accepted - to be able to judge and place retrospectively what it is about, and how much this is about, because that has been the case since 2010. It didn't precede. Previously, we have been with the system that we are reintroducing and reintroducing since at least '96. More specifically, it is mostly about the Dry Army, where the captains have "very well" two hundred and ninety-two. As far as I can see, there are fifteen captains, who have between five and ten seven. They are twelve captains and eight eight eight majors - that is what we are talking about - to re-evaluate them, some of whom are unfortunately not going to be re-evaluated, because they have already eaten the first deprivation. Therefore, they are not going to be re-evaluated, unfortunately. And that's a great injustice to them. We're talking about these numbers. In this sense we are going to solve the problem, when there is a serious problem - and the Civilian Opposition - unfortunately because of the comitology - does not do so on purpose - at the level of officers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u87	Mr. President, Mr. Toscas...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u88	The Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Toskas, has asked for a brief speech on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, I would ask the Minister to explain what he meant about a military junta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u90	What Minister? Excuse me, Mr. Cryazides. Wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u91	During the period of dictatorship, Mr. Cryazides. Isn't it obvious?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u92	One was the junta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u93	Now, excuse me. Is this a conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u94	I think that in Greek history as a military junta - I understand that - we mean the period from 21 April 1967 to July 1974.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u95	To avoid misunderstandings, that's why I stressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u96	So we agreed, there's no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u97	Good. The necessary clarification has been given. Mr. Toska, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. By Article 36(1) of the Law. 4249/2014, Mr President, it is laid down that as far as the Greek police officers are concerned, the Chief is selected by the CSCE for a two-year term, which may be extended for another year. Other details relating to the end of his term of office shall also be provided. There is this problem, Mr President, with regard to the crisis in the Security Councils: in the current context, that is, with this law, but also with the other provisions in force, the crises in the Firehouse are normally carried out in January. Police crises take place on March 1st and the end of the term of office, so the Chief's crisis takes place in April, because in April this particular Chief was placed. Whether it remains or not, this is irrational again, as you can see. The existing ones cannot be judged first and then the Chief of Police, who heads the Service Council to make the judgments. That is why, with the regulation we are doing, we propose that this term of office ends with the start of the regular crises of the year of its completion. At the same time, we have tried - regardless of this amendment - to harmonise all crises so that a certain period of time can take place, namely on 20 January to 20 February. So it's a matter of rationalization. Since I am given the opportunity, I would like to say that there is in the bill, which is being discussed, Article 11 on the benefit of the normalisation of military personnel who are in a dimension or divorced or married. There's some arrangements to get this normalization allowance. The members of the Security Bodies that fall within the same category have not been included. I am committed to this issue in the next bill to bring in a provision that harmonizes these members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Toska. Let's start with the list of speakers. The reason is Mrs. Euphoria Karasardou from SYRIZA for seven minutes. There will be tolerance for all the speakers, because, as we have heard, they have the right to be able to place them on the articles as well. You have the floor, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have to describe the draft law we are discussing in a few words, it is: ending swabs. In the context of transparency and democracy, every person concerned has contributed with his participation in the prior open consultation in order to create a user-friendly and operational legislative framework for transfers, but - to this day, they have been regulated by internal orders of the General Staff of the Armed Forces. Finally, customer transfers. The Government is attempting to introduce a specific legal framework for the determination of transfers by the hosts to Greek data for the first time. In other words, it establishes a complete molecule system so that military transfers and positions are carried out in accordance with principles of transparency. More specifically, it is a provision that stipulates that all soldiers should for five months be served in remote areas, islands and ships. With regard to transfers, the operational and service needs of the Armed Forces are priority. The criteria introduced are distinguished from service, economic, social and objective, so that the most molecules citizens can claim placement at their place, but always on the basis of operational needs. At the same time, the criteria are closer to the new reality. In other words, we consider the conditions of the soldiers' lives in the years of the crisis, such as, for example, unemployment, diseases, the members of the lotus, the tritecan and the single parent family. Finally, all soldiers will be able to be informed through the official electronic websites of the general staff on the molecules that are being transferred and those with the lowest moleculation. In other words, there will be full transparency. In addition, the bill contains important provisions for the relief of Armed Forces personnel, while at the level of rights the criminality of inefficiency is eliminated. The draft law is complemented by education arrangements, such as the possibility of obtaining permission to participate in undergraduate or postgraduate programs of internal and external HEIs. At this point I would like to stress a key feature of the bill which is the greatest possible use of human resources. Armed graduated doctors can now serve in vacant locations of CIDs, health centres and general hospitals, a possibility that works as an extra aid, especially for remote areas where there are tragic deficiencies and great needs. At the same time, this regulation will also benefit militant doctors themselves, because the time of fulfilling their mandate will be recognized as a time to fulfil and the obligation to serve in the countryside. They are also entitled to the remuneration laid down by the Ministry of Health of the countryside doctors and to compensation for on-calls beyond the planned remuneration of the Ministry of National Defence. Colleagues, I don't want to tire you any more. The draft law we are debating today is well known and I believe that you all understand its usefulness and its necessity. But I would like to close my speech in a more general context, taking on the occasion of everything that has been going on in our country lately. We are experiencing a strange climate where it is now clear that the government's interventions are disturbing. Something has now begun to change in this country and the war of all those who are stubbornly insisting on keeping everything distorting it has been intensified. But with blows under the belt, nothing comes out. On the contrary, we are entangled in a situation that now seems deadlocked. After all, in fact, it's like eating our flesh, the flesh, that is, this country, and it's about time it stopped. With drunken movements, we're changing relationships and data for many years. We dare to respond to the problems with full transparency. The need for sobering and understanding is more urgent than ever. The moment has come when we all have to focus on our basic orientation, the restoration, that is, of any social justice on the ground, but of reality and not just rhetoric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Karasarlidou. Mr Kyriazidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, in fact, raised specific issues where there should be one - I would say - national consensus so that there are stable in that country. Unfortunately, my colleague, you have not helped this. You're doing the project today, but I can see that in your position, even though you yourself as a joy, do not work with soundness - I'd say - and with a modesty. Unfortunately, the reality is quite different and we are dealing with it every day and I will then say about it. We have a specific bill, which indeed has positive provisions, as our rapporteur has pointed out, but, Minister, there are provisions which, as has been pointed out by our parliamentary representative, cannot be accepted. We would ask - until the last minute we are going to wait sincerely - that this adoption be in place for issues that we have stressed many times, which concern - I would say - specific 'organisations', such as the Armed Forces and the Security Body. The New Democracy is dealing with these issues with a national eye and not a party. We would therefore ask you to give us the opportunity, so that we can be positive about the whole bill. There are, however, provisions in this draft law, to which I am obliged to refer, such as Article 9. During the debate in the committee, I pointed out the need to extend this provision not only to part of the military personnel, the officers, but also to those who serve outside the offices - not that these people do not help, but also to say that they have legal training - so that they actually come bills with a special care. You were committed to an extension of the relevant provisions. I am also going to come to Article 11, which is indeed a regulation on your part, and, in addition, - I believe - a law following our homeland, which lightens up financially, at least, a piece - which will be permitted - by the officials of the Armed Forces. But you only limit that to the Armed Forces. Minister, there is a single wage, a single wage is in terms of economic and not the contents of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps. The first time comes today a bill separating the Security Body. It's never happened before. It is, of course, about six hundred fifty police officers, two hundred fifty ports and about three hundred firefighters. It is regrettable to go ahead with this division and it is not, as the Minister of Defence pointed out, that I will be allowed to speak - the koruna of the Ministry of Defence. It's from the state budget. That is, of course, what the General Accounting Report says. So, Minister, I think that today you will have to accept the amendment tabled by Members to address this issue. You cannot separate the Armed Forces and the Security Body. Of course, I come to a particular point concerning an amendment that has already been tabled by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Toska, on the Greek police crisis. I would say that it was a common secret the surrounding atmosphere in the Security Body, especially in the Greek Police, that the government has been trying since September to replace the Chief. At an event, a general council of Greek police officers reported that the government should not proceed to replace in an unorthodox manner. That is why I referred earlier to the yearbook, in the way it is being drawn up. There is already a strong concern in the field of the Greek Police, because there is a suspension of operation, and the crises should have taken place in March. We come in a year, I'd say, that creates suspicions. They are unable to have the annual crises in order to have a thorough, I would say, valuable training this year and many questions are raised. There are huge questions that arise in connection with the already drawn up yearbook by "officials" in the field of government, in order to take the lead roles in the Greek Police. Besides, the Council of State with observations returned the relevant presidential decree, because you went through a presidential decree to replace a law. That is why today, of course, this regulation - an amendment - comes in order to comply with the remarks made by the Council of State. With such small 'coup d'états', you are trying to pass your own position on to the Armed Forces and the Security Body, and I think it is time to deal with all this with a national eye, but not under the circumstances and the way you are institutionalizing. Minister, we've known each other for years and we've known each other well. I would expect at least in these areas another position, another attitude, one justice and one dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Mr Nicholas Kouzilos has spoken since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like to begin with Article 12, in which it reads: 'Regulating military obligations of unreserved people. Those who acted at any time or are in negligent at the date of entry into force of that law shall be excluded from the invitation or invitations for which they were declared irresponsible.' Here I would like to take a look at Article 4 of the Constitution, in which he writes: ‘1. The Greeks are equal before the law. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Greeks and Greek women have equal rights and obligations." In paragraph 6, it states: ‘Every Greek that can carry weapons shall be obliged to contribute to the defence of the country, in accordance with the definitions of the laws’. Because you're talking about isology, do you think that's equal? So anyone who's gonna plead conscientiously? And in the end, how many are the conscientious objections? Will he not be able to serve? Can we give you a solution? ‘I5’. Just their own problem, those we define as conscientious objections are that they do not believe in homeland, do not believe in religion. So by themselves they're abolishing isology. How do they seek to favour a state while not believing in all of this, do they not believe in morals, customs, religions, homelands? Also, bring in Article 20 the Armed Forces Support Office. You are actually serving your party audience. The one who wrote it has served? This role usually - I've served in the Navy nineteen months - was taken by the gunman. If you had a problem, you'd go to the gunman, you'd refer to it, you'd solve the problem. Why? So, right now, we're not pulling the hierarchy out of the army? I would not like to say anything else about these two articles. In general, however, the particular bill you bring does not fulfil the rules and conditions and your rapporteur's report. In fact, in committee, we have seen that many issues from various federations have been accepted. But as long as the army is commanded and not made decisions by the Armed Forces, but the ministers are taken, unfortunately, there will be the pit, there will be the "billietie" that each Minister gives to each Chief of Staff. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are waiting to see and what you are going to do with the bill proposed by the Annells. It is of great interest to see what is going to happen with military high school, with the militarisation of women. Will you take it? Will you bring it sometime? What stage is he at? It's very interesting to see these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u105	Mrs. Panayota Dritsel has the floor from SYRIZA. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas will then follow and we will continue with the list of speakers. Here, Mrs. Drittelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is another legislative intervention by the Government in the great effort that has been under way for almost a year now for the democratisation of the institutions, for democracy, for transparency and for social justice. And it is one more time that the opposition parties and especially the Civic Opposition have voiced themselves. In such legislative intervention, one reads the number of Vice-Presidents enrolled in order to be placed, it is just as small as the arguments they have in order not to vote on such a draft bill. Because today's bill is an essential part. It's a bill that should have been made yesterday, the day before, many years ago. It is a bill that inspires values, which shields the status of the Armed Forces, which qualitatively enhances military and academic education. At the same time, it's a bill of extremely anthropocentric. It is a bill synchronised with the country's new social and economic conditions. It is a bill that faces the strains of the Armed Forces and also the Armed Forces as individuals with special features and exploits all their knowledge and experiences. That is why it is considered a bill that is positive, because it is mainly to face an incredible flaw in recent years, a client-in-law that has been created and widened by all the previous governments of this country. That is why he hopes to put an end to the opaque logics that prevailed, particularly in relation to the transfer of the Armed Forces' armies, which, until now, continued to tarnish the authority of the institution and mainly to appease the morality of the armed forces. Because some have tended to cry and fight for no reason, it is important to remember that the political system of the last thirty years is what has excite these customer relations, which has rapidly undermined its prestige in society. At the same time, the social message they used to emit is "Come on, you guys, and we'll suit you" - after SYRIZA's victory, of course, this stopped - thereby treating citizens as customers in the past years as also gunners as ramps. These pathogens, and despite hypocritical tears, the Left had to come to deal with them and all the other political forces built customer relations on the transfer of the soldiers and the service changes of the Armed Forces' officers. With these practices they have completely weakened their prestige and, of course, have been disapproved by society in three ongoing elections. This bill, therefore, is the first step towards establishing a stable, transparent armaments moleculation system for their transfers. Authorization provisions are laid down whereby the Ministry of National Defence will draw up the hosts' mobilisation tables, based on the operational needs, social criteria and skills of each militant. Thus a sense of justice is inspired in this way and gunmen themselves are protected against abuses of the bankrupt now client system. However, our aim is not only social justice, but also the possibility of reconciliation of military service with professional development, that is to enable the host to exploit not only to serve his service needs, but also to practice and improve his own skills and knowledge, from his term of office something about his subsequent social and professional course. The logic of the bill is the strengthening of sovereignty in the Armed Forces and the safeguarding of the armor's dignity. In this direction is also the institution of the Armed Forces Support Office, in order to completely eliminate even the latest cases of misuse of power that defamate the Armed Forces and which may stigmatize its worthy executives. At the same time, gunmen acquire an important consultative and supportive structure which facilitates their integration into their new life unit. In this bill there are also very important provisions with the regulation of the military obligations of the subordinated soldiers. Great innovations in this area are no more than the abolition of the criminal and the removal of the extermination economic fines imposed. This is another step towards the democratisation of the Armed Forces, which effectively shuts thousands of young people out of excessively hard dealing with the old framework. The bill also provides for the possibility of using new scientists, particularly doctors and lawyers, who can deal with their subject matter during their term of office. This is not, obviously, the aim of substituting state operation by the structures of the Armed Forces, but rather the aim is to meet social needs where, for various reasons, the Public Service cannot intervene. In particular, with regard to rural hospitals in the region, and in particular the most remote ones, the activation of armaments doctors can provide significant breaths in the remote and disadvantaged areas of the country. For graduates of legal schools, it is also important to make a contribution to the Legal Services of the Armed Forces, while recognising this offer for their subsequent professional path. The logic of these arrangements is, of course, that military service should finally stop being an experience in the life of a citizen without it being directly interconnected with his subsequent development. Finally, in my opinion, there is another very important aspect of the bill, which is to encourage the capacity of the Armed Forces to go to higher and higher studies, as well as to facilitate the introduction of this objective. The right to study for the officials of the Armed Forces is enshrined, and the necessary authorization for the adoption of secondary legislation is introduced, which will clearly delineate the application of this framework. In the same direction, the strengthening of the level of education and training of the Armed Forces' potential also includes an increase in study at the schools of permanent staff by one year. This provision is intended to implement a consistent request from these schools for the upgrading of studies and for the further education and training of their managers. The school will now be three years old and will be equal to the higher military schools. To conclude, I would like to stress that this government does not hesitate and will continue to make areas of democracy and progress, listening to society and upgrading the institutions of the state. In this direction we have also been working on the issues of the Armed Forces, giving practical answers with the difference of our own governance from previous years. This is our democratic, progressive perception of things. And we are sure that, despite the riots of some, society will continue to be next to SYRIZA for many more years. We are an organic part of this society, we are the power of social change, and with these moral advantages we will continue and go. Hysterical cries and toys of political impression are not of interest to us, but they neither frighten us. Our efforts are clear and we will continue to address society as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Drittelli. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u108	With speakers, MPs, what are you going to do, Mr President? Will the Parliamentary Representatives intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u109	I am sorry, but it has been announced that, after the first quarter of speakers, he will speak a parliamentary representative. Immediately after Mr. Pappa, you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u110	In other words, a parliamentary representative will speak and then one speaker will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u111	The parliamentary representatives, after consultation with the Bureau, may speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u112	I have no problem with Mrs. Papacosta speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u113	Why raise a matter from the outside?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u114	I just asked, Mr President, to confirm that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u115	Parliamentary representatives, always in consultation with the Bureau, are intervening about the time the consultation takes place. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u116	Before I refer to the bills, I would like to say something that gave me a special impression a moment ago in this Chamber. While we heard the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Kefaliannis, saying 'yes' in the bill at first sight, we heard Mr. Dendia raise objections and actually say 'no'. So I wonder - as will every reasonable Greek citizen who is following us - this is an attitude of officer-in-Office, one that is to say 'yes' and another to say 'no'? What's the cuff about? It is another proof that in this House real national opposition to the lagoon - I will say that - of the SYRIZA, it is the national opposition and the national resistance of the Golden Dawn! The bill that comes for discussion today comes at a peculiar level, at least, I would say, for the government and especially for the Ministry of National Defence. I am talking about your ministry, Minister, because there are many issues in our national affairs and the bold, hypotonic and evidence - let me be allowed - a racist policy of your Ministry. I oppose the typical and usual words that we will hear in just two months, after the parade of our National Revolution of 1821, which the various politicians will say and we will hear from ministerial left lips, voids, entangled about moral, worthy of the Armed Forces and others. We are well aware of the disdaining of the Armed Forces, namely the officers and officers, which - the truth is - is not now that the so-called Left is governed, but since 1974 by the vengeance - at least for us - of the unfaithful memory of old Constantine Karamanlis, but also of his well-known partner, macarat and of him, Evangelos Averov. The Greek officer, Minister, cannot be released in his honored uniform. It is the goal of the various negligent pseudo-revolutionaries, your beloved children, your dear children of your party, SYRIZA. Same goes for the soldiers. Do you know, Minister, that the soldiers, for example the KEVOP in Haidari, children of the Greek people who serve the country, are repeatedly taking violent attacks and beatings from anarchists' groups, in which I note that Albanian origin, second and third generations, are involved? Do you know, Minister, the needs of the active officers, who are literally brought down by the cuts that exist, due to the governments' memorials - not only yours, but also the previous ones - of the 'Dexia', but also your 'Left' and, in particular, your third memorial, which you jointly voted on? Do you know that at the critical age and level, I would say, the military - the degree of the colonel, that is, both proportionally in the Navy and Air Force - the situation of people who have families and children who are preparing for examination is tragic? Moreover, your Ministry's leadership is ready - and this is very important and must be heard - along with the government to sell used military material in Ukraine. SYRIZA's peaceful government! So you are practically cutting the bridges for a nationally independent foreign policy. And I mean bridges with the Orthodox Russian Federation, with which any alliance in economic, defence, energy and cultural terms would be entirely beneficial to the Greek nation. For obvious reasons, I do not have time to analyse here, but they are known to you from our positions in the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, to which we have often referred in our direction towards the Russian Federation. So, Mr. Minister, what are you doing? Let me tell you what you're doing. You have taken the route Athens - Jerusalem - to say it like that, charming - as the trolleyway Patisia - Koukaki. Your ministers are on their way. The Minister of National Defence yesterday accepted his counterpart from Israel. A ten-member government delegation, along with the Prime Minister, went to the state - a terrorist in the Eastern Mediterranean, the state which illegally owned the historic land of Palestine, Israel. So without you as a Ministry, continue, I would say, a 'yes man' policy, which is traditionally followed by the New Democracy party, the guardian of the republic of Greece. And what else do you do at this juncture that you discuss the bill? We obtain as a country - listen - war material from Pakistan, as it revealed, with a front page and exclusive post, the weekly national newspaper "EMPROS" last Saturday. Minister, you are coming today with a bill, an attempt to regulate matters relating to placements, transfers, etc. the soldiers and troops officers. For us this bill works negatively for the effective functioning of the Armed Forces and their mission, which is to defend the Greek national territory and, secondly, the social work that they carry out. With this bill that we are discussing, there is in no way a solution to the maximum problem of the full staffing of the catching plants and units in the border areas. Initially, a six-month term was introduced in the border regions and nine months later, mainly because of the demographic problem. It adds to this the abolitions and transfers of camps - which are the truth that they started before your own government - which are burdening the country's defensive adequacy. All this in the context of saving resources, but, I would say, of orders from the 'growers' of the North Atlantic Alliance, namely NATO. No law on positioning, transferring, extracting and disposing is going to solve the major problem of the manning of military units unless the maximum problem called "demographic" is solved first and if it is resolved - if so! - of this greatest problem, not all of our country's human resources for defence are exploited. And I mean - our competitor, Elias Cassidy, was also mentioned this morning, as rapporteur, which applies to many countries - and European - where the militarisation of women is now being introduced, which we say should only be provided for in terms of maternity. These women - and in the context of equality - can offer the maximum. And if they do not wish on grounds of sex - let us say so - armed service can offer much in terms of administrative care in other areas of the Armed Forces. If we had both the women, the new Greek women, the male population could, the Armed Forces' males could be exploited for the manning of the fighting shells and military areas, units of the border. It is therefore necessary for us - and we repeat this from this position - to take up compulsory military service for men and women, with the exception of mothers, eighteen and fourteen months of service. The bill also provides benefits for soldiers, who are too low in relation to their needs and levels of needs for a soldier to live decently today. Mr Minister, there should be an increase in this "pay" of soldiers, even at the level of the following public wages. And that is why it will also be a delicacy for the militarisation. Unfortunately, we manage to say "delear" the payroll of the soldiers, but this is the reality today, so you have done it with the memorials. Delear, therefore, will be for the soldiers in a country of the unemployed and will give a breath of this to cover the personal problem of the Armed Forces. Also, nowhere in the bill is there any mention of gunmen's insurance. Service times are recognised for doctors and lawyers, while for the other specialties they serve they are not sufficiently specified how they will be recognised as a service which any of their jobs in the Armed Forces on their specialty. I shall refer to the individual articles this afternoon. I cannot, however, comment on my protology in the general spirit of the draft law on objections of conscience, that is, objections of conscience and irresponsible. These arrangements are contrary to the general spirit of the Constitution, which defines the mandatory military army for those who can carry weapons. These provisions probably create a mass of irresponsible men who have avoided and avoided their army in legal and semi-legal ways. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Our proposal is to reopen the dossiers with the exemptions and strict penalties for those who have avoided militarisation in a non-legal manner. And I mean even political men. This morning Elijah Cassidy was reported in the election of the Prime Minister. However, I shall refer to another example. I will set an example of what is known as Alice in the Navy. I mean the empowerment of the selfish former leader of the New Democracy, Mr. Antony Samaras. I conclude by saying that this is a bill that does not solve the serious problems, particularly the manning of the Armed Forces. It may have some positive points that we will discuss, but, in our view, it is all negative. We are voting 'no' because the bill, including others, also contains elements that run counter to the traditional concepts of Greek citizens and about morality and military order, such as this about a coexistence pact, in which we spoke so much this morning. We say 'no' in the bill, which gives the Minister of National Defence the power to continue an unacceptable situation with 'billiets', enables him to use the Armed Forces to unwritten votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u117	Mrs Papakostas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, first I was pleased to hear your position. You said in your suggestion to this House that you would like in this draft law - and in general this is your understanding at first sight of the Ministry of National Defence with the present Government - to enjoy the officials of the Armed Forces with the same rights, both working and social. I take exactly what you said, mot à mot. In fact, I noted the phrase, so I wouldn't lose a word. Didn't you say, Minister? However, this morning, on a timely question that I asked to Mr Juliarakis about the implementation of Decision 2194/2014 of the State Council on Pensions and Retrospectives of Armed Forces, I heard the exact return, Minister. Now listen to the conflicting views within the same government. Do you know what Mr. Juliarakis said this morning? He said two hundred in relation to the same work and social rights, for which you have just made a claim that you want and that is your philosophy for the officials of the Armed Forces to have. On the contrary, Mr Juliarakis said: 'Our social priorities are other social groups and we will see'. He said something else, the second thing I told you about from two pounds. He talked about special payrolls. I don't know if you've come to an agreement. Obviously, in relation to the implementation of the decision of the Council of State, it is very nice that the trick, through the special wages, will be offset by you, that is, the government, retrospectives with the wording of the law you will bring - as Mr Juliarakis said this morning - and that is the obligation you have to pay the other 50% of decision 2194/2014. At best, you do not agree in the worst case, you are mocking the officers of the Armed Forces! However, in both cases, Minister, I am very sorry for your government. I want to note a second thing you said. Again I shall invoke the mot à mot, word for word. You said: "We are restoring the democraticity of the Armed Forces." Do you claim that the Armed Forces of the country have not been democratic before you are elected by the Greek people? If not...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u119	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u120	I'm glad you say that. Don't swing the finger on me like that. Please withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u121	If you say inaccurate, I'll shake the finger. If you find my speech, show it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u122	Please do very much, since you did not say so, to correct it, to raise it. I accept it, and I'm glad...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u123	If you find it in my speech, show it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u124	Good. Now listen. I don't see Mr. Kammenos here. I am not saying, of course, that you are not legally representing the government. I say this for another reason and you will see the obvious cause of Mr Kammenos's presence here. I must tell you that, although it seems, Minister, you are attempting to establish an objective system - take note of the verb'seen' - in fact there are too many exceptions. In fact, in fact, because we are legislators here, they are perpetuating the existing situation of exceptions. I have to accept that a piece, which has not been adjusted today, is undoubtedly in need of regulation. Undoubtedly, I must also accept that the political system has been exploited over time. That's what we agree. But beware: all these exceptions you make do not cover a basic and central need for the Armed Forces. What is this key need? It's the cover of service needs. And I'll tell you why. For many years now, there has been no recruitment of professional soldiers, nor has they now been carried out, while many have been retired, have resigned, without being replaced. Therefore, the main question, the coverage of the service needs, is not fulfilled under this legislation. Now take note of something that is very important and central to me and to my resignation, and we have all said so in all tons. Our Parliamentary spokesman has said earlier that our position has been dominated by this. I would like to ask you this: so far, you know, so that there is no misunderstanding, all this was done by molecule and by law. In other words, the transfer of soldiers and all this with molecules was done, by law it was arranged. These were not decided when the wind blows north, south, or in another direction. By means of modulation, this was done by law. So you're not innovating. The novelty I have heard, that 'we will now modulate', is wrong. If that's what they told you, you have the wrong information. So I would like to inform you that there is now a molecules. I'm telling you one more thing: so far there has been confidence in the - let me say the term - lower tiles - I do not degrade the value of the executives, I mean rating steps lower - which they did? They practically made the transfers and the whole process. I ask you: does your Government have a deficit of confidence in the lowest grades, which have so far been doing this work and, indeed, have you been demanding the transposition at the law level? Do you have your order attempting what those tiles did, which our government and the previous governments have trusted fully, to transfer to ministerial level? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I ask for your tolerance. I ask you: Who will be convinced that the Minister - the Minister concerned, I am not saying today, the yesterday, the yesterday, the day before tomorrow - will be so unbiased - is the Minister of National Defence - and will not be tempted, the ones you called 'rusphetological' that you are supposed to press and strike for ever through this regulation? It's not done and it's wrong. Let me tell you something else. In paragraph 10 of Article 3, which states that the criteria are laid down by service, economic, social, objective and so on, I must tell you that you have not defined exactly what low income will be on the economic criteria. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] In paragraph 10, you are opening a window - look, ladies and gentlemen! - for emergency transfers before completing the five-month service at the border, when the weapon exceeds the molecules for regular transfers. Mr Minister, this is where the opportunity is given for absolutely opaque transfers. I'm taking you to S.H.I.E.L.D. now. I have to tell you that you are limiting the social criteria here, because Articles 15, 16 and 17 - unless you specify that it is not correct to formulate and therefore requires legislative improvement - you say that the social criteria only concern parents who have at least a child with an incurable or incurable illness. To husbands, Minister? So far the husbands have been included. The previous government covered them. Do you, in other words, deny the right to indictments to be able to meet the social criteria when they have a VHS as a husband? Just with kids? So you're limiting it? The second thing I would like to ask is this: are you limiting the 30-day special leave for military personnel only in cases of the mental delay in Down Syndrome, or are you adding them? If you add them, the wording is incorrect. You need to clarify it, make it clear. Finally, I must tell you about the famous Article 25 and Article 29, which has also been criticised for. I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. And thank you very much. I have to tell you that Mr Toskas, the current Minister of Citizen Protection, who was previously sitting next to you, was the one who was recommended in 2010 to the then Minister of Defence, PASOK government, this provision. He's next to you today as the Minister of Citizen Protection. At that time, under PASOK, he was advisor to the then Minister of National Defence. You are now abolishing a provision of the PASOK government and reintroducing a PASOK government provision, but the '96 PASOK Significant. And I must tell you that the issue of retroactiveness can be seen positively, but after clarifying and clarifying all the previous ones, which are just the transparency and the defence of equal rights - social, labour and other - of the Armed Forces' officials do not promote. For this reason, Minister, I would like to make your explanations definitively, as I imagine my colleagues will. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty two students and apprentices and five educational sessions from the high school of Ioannina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before I call Mrs Skoufa in Step, I would like us to agree on the continuation of the procedure. As has been decided, since there is no other possibility, the first sitting will be closed at 16.00 with the vote at the beginning of the bill. The procedure will be resumed at 18.00, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that the Conference of Presidents is known to you. The list of speakers will continue. Those who do not have time to speak by 16: 00, will continue the list and, possibly, those who want to be re-listed after 18: 00, will be re-listed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, we agreed that the process would go unified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u127	You may have said, my colleague, but there are other reasons. There is no President, since there was a specific decision to close the first sitting at 16: 00. It is something that is not dependent on the present President-in-Office. Mrs Scouffa has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. I am one of the relatively newly elected Members. My first election, in other words, was January last year. The first impression we as newly elected MPs is that the governments of New Democracy and PASOK have been ruling for for forty years with the idea and the impression that no other government will come and that no other MPs will be able to control their works and days. So they continued the same thigh. With this I mean that I can understand, on the basis of what I have said, that even today, outside each parliamentary office, there are virtually armies of entire citizens who are going to serve in the Army, as well as armies of parents from these citizens, etc., to ask for rosphetti. Really, gentlemen, so many years you've been creating your constituent armies? Is that how you created the client state? Is that how you created addictions to the citizens? Is that why this bill bothers you? In this sense, too, I can understand the nuisance recorded by the New Democracy and the PASOK about the fact that the bill now enables the Minister - who is also the most responsible for defence matters, the Army, etc. - control substantially transfers and placements. Because even in the days of the SYRIZA and ANEL congress, especially the major Civilian opposition, they continue to find and find 'loopholes' within the existing ministries, they continue and do illegally transfer, extracts and placements of soldiers, without obeying any of the fundamental principles of the system. These kites are gone somewhere, they're given, somebody gets them. So I think that, under our eyes and because you consider us to be foolish, kind or I don't know what else, you continue the same Rusphetan policy. Just these poor texts are coming to heal this bill, which of course introduces a completely transparent and worthwhile system, when each soldier will know how much molecules he gets, on the basis of objective criteria: if he is a fruit of a poor family, if he is a child's father of AME and others. So he will know how many molecules he gets and, since these molecules will be posted on a web portal, he will be able to know how many more molecules the fifty last of his series have gathered at the place he wishes, so that, if a looting, blessed, blessed, and all of it in "for" can be objected. What's wrong with that? What's wrong with you cutting the party clientele? From there on, another very positive point in this bill is that of course it enables graduates of medical and legal schools, first of all, to make their country's or their necessary exercise and in this way two very great positive ones are achieved: Firstly, the fact that they are actually serving social needs, because the doctor will go to make his countryside in a rural area and therefore serve sensitive and vulnerable social groups, which continue to be a project of the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence, to serve in some perceptive area and to help in providing medical advice and medical assistance to people who, because of economic costs or other difficulties, cannot go to the 'Oones', private clinics, urban centres and others. At the same time, doctors and lawyers will gather the necessary pre-service and moleculosis, which will be recognised in their subsequent professional development. I would like to end, however, with some loose ends left in this bill, with loose ends being found in the full opposite of the militarist, fascist, racist ideology and realism, which at times, unfortunately, is also heard in this House and has to do with the fact that we are waiting as SYRIZA MPs - and I believe that I am expressing the majority - the recognition of the alternative service is done on a little more democratic terms in a 21st-century society, which wants to be called democratic. In this sense, I would like to suggest that we accept and vote for amendments by the SYRIZA Members, who have to do with the fact that anyone who wants to make an alternative term should not pass through a supervising authority purely military, should not be judged by military, but by psychologists, sociologists and other scientists. It should have a fair hearing. The decision to reject the alternative service must be fully substantiated. Finally, we are waiting patiently for service in alternative service not to exceed more than 50% of normal military service, because otherwise the alternative term - which is institutionalised in the other democratic countries of Europe - is being punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u129	Mr Constantine Tasoulas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, which consists of thirty articles, is actually a procedure that could have been avoided and few of these articles, which are positive and have a bearing on the training of military officials or staff care issues, have been included in amendments to other bills. The fundamental myth of this bill, that it ends the ruse, is a monstrous hypocrisy and a purely verbal attempt to shift what is currently in force - and, in our hand, is to apply correctly or wrongly - to enclose the garment of the legislative initiative, and in reality everything that we are voting on, in relation to the transfer of soldiers - the criteria, the reasons for movements, the molecules - applies on orders. The fact that the number one criterion for movements of soldiers to gravity and priority remains the operational and service needs demonstrates the safe reason. In other words, it shows that, since the number of people remains the service and operational criteria and needs, then all other assessments and all other criteria as secondary ones fall under the basic rule: 'This is what they are today. Anyone who wants this criterion can be abused, whoever wants this criterion is not abused. So we have to do what we have to do.' Everything else is words. However, beyond this illusion and the mythology of the abolition of ruptured... By the way, I would like to tell you that Rusphetti in Greece is not the result of the Trans-Society, it is a result of Turkish rule, which is why it has lasted so much, and because, precisely, it has lasted too long and no one dared to take it out, you are even worse than us who have made any ruptures, because you do not even admit it. Apart from that, you are the swan song of Transparency with a combination of hypocrisy, which wants to say that you put an end to the "proofs" and "rosphets" and wroth from below the client system, the rushphetti, to which you add a little of what Churchill said to the House of Commons in 1945 on leftwing, you add the "good news of envy". As "prosecutors" of social envy you came to power to divide the Greeks and cultivate this envy as the last argument of your failed ideology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u131	You're doing more ruffles than us even today. In the army and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u132	I did, but I have the courage, and I say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u133	Please don't interrupt. Mr. Tasouula, continue your speech. Don't interrupt. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u134	I don't have the cowardice and hypocrisy of your own being the comfortable ones and being the worst version of Postmopolitanism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u135	Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u136	You're the worst version of Postmulsion, I repeat. As your President Tsipras spoke in this Chamber, you add the "good news of envy", attempting to divide the Greeks into a desperate attempt to maintain some influence on a people, who are fascinated and sad by the economic crisis. I am returning to the bill, and I say, Mr President, that in addition to its hypocrisy, it is allegedly abrogated, which can also be done with the existing provisions, but if they are observed, you also add some other provisions which will create a problem in the army, such as the creation of the Armed Forces Support Office, which, in my opinion, is absolutely unnecessary. Are there procedures in the army, which start with the report every morning on the lot, where everyone complains and is glad to say their complaints and hear, until other procedures in each unit, which make this an unnecessary and harmful process, which you are bringing to the army and will cause great problems for the commanders of the units and officers, who, at its expense, any unfavourable judgments, when there are too many references to this famous Emotional Support Office, will they also say the final phrase, which they said to the public a few decades ago: 'I will take the snake out of the hole?' And the migration of the behaviour of officers will be completed - in the bad sense I say - of civil servants. So that will be a second mistake. The third mistake in this bill is the retrospective drop in the level of "very well" in 15, which creates this momentum towards convenience, which has dissolved everything in the country and we want to transfer it to the Armed Forces as well. To God, don't get tired! To God, there's no discrimination. To God, some don't stand out. Everybody be equal. 15 to be the same as 17 and 18, which will affect the concept of hierarchy and the concept of discernment on which a remarkable army must rely. Furthermore, the provisions on the treatment of so-called 'consciousness', particularly those for ideological reasons, are as if to reward this trend, which is in fact unfair to those who observe Article 6 of the Constitution and military equality and are classified into the Armed Forces because you are facilitating them further. They already have too many facilities. You facilitate them further, because they can now also serve in Athens and Thessaloniki their alternative term. And one can be seen as being conscientious and on the basis of a public statement, which is too vague. It is very easy to represent a conscientious opposition and to make this category of citizens worse, which in this way they want to avoid compliance with the Constitution. These fundamental reasons, to which I am opposed, make me negative in voting this bill and to point out these imperfections, without, however, ignoring that there are certain issues, which do not constitute a bill in the real sense. I told you that these could come to an amendment with provisions governing matters of doctors, lawyers or the training or care of staff. I conclude by saying that it was heard on the side of the Golden Dawn, by the rapporteur of Mrs Cassidy, that in the army rhysphetology and party intervention have undermined even this worthwhile one. I have no objections to the fact that in the military there is an intense disrepute and partition. However, the worthy of the Armed Forces has not been undermined. However, the worthy remains high and the Greek army is able to face the threat, which comes from the East. It was also heard on the side of the Golden Dawn that the post-militarisation was a weakness of the army, because there were persecutions. I would like to say that Migration was a critical historical period of the country. The leadership of the army chosen in Transmolisis, Arbouzis, Davos, Gracis, Ekolfopoulou, Economou, for those remembered, played a crucial role in this transition from a military regime of cruelty, which caused the tragedy of Cyprus and the loss of 40% of the territory of Cyprus to the last act of the Asia Minor drama, as they did not have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Tasoula, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u138	The political leadership through the relentless Constantine Karamanlis and Evangelos Averov then clearly kept the army on a stunning level, despite the screams for demolition, which reached the extreme points of the demolition of the army and the necessary balances were observed so that the army remained remarkable. Then, for the first time since the opening of Turkey's review policy in '73, thanks to the armaments program, but also to the high mind of the army, the balance in the Aegean Sea, especially in the air, was in favour of Greece in a critical period. This is also due to the military and political leadership of that time. I had to stress this for reasons of historical restoration. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u139	The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Karras, has the floor. On the basis of the time which has elapsed by about 16.00, two other Members will probably speak. Then the vote will take place at the outset and we will be adjourned to return to the articles at 6 p.m. You have the floor, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. I will attempt a time economy, Mr President, because the issues, as they have been raised in the Chamber and in the committee, feel that they have been exhausted, that the opinions on both sides have been recorded and that there has already been strong reflection. What I would like to say here is that the Greek Armed Forces have proved their value and their usefulness for Greece and for periods of war and in periods of peace. So today, when we come to a peaceful, but disturbed period in the wider region, in which we are in, we have to stand a little bit and see not only the rigour and discipline, but also the suffering, if you like, if my expression is correct, the personnel of the Armed Forces. This bill has two pieces in our view. A piece seeks to create a concentration on the issue of the transfer and placements of the soldiers in the hands of the Minister, because the issue of the granting of the power transfer is insecure and we understand that, depending on openness or sensitivity, or on politicalness - an ingenious term that I use - the Minister in question, will be able to grant, withdraw and retain the issue of placements and transfers. We must not overlook anything. All of us who have served, all who have a family, all of us have relatives who have served in the Armed Forces before the cancaras, son, mother runs and pressures father to find the way to make the best possible service. These are, therefore, events that will not change, nor have they changed from the establishment of the Greek state, nor will they change with this bill, nor with any subsequent one. We must be honest, because that is what there is, the protection of the Greek parent in his children and especially the mother in his son. So I won't stand any longer...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u141	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u142	It doesn't matter, Mr. Doussina. And the fathers are pressing if you want. Because I have a son and fathers are under pressure, because I've served my son. In this sense, therefore, I do not want to go any further on the question of whether it is insulting or not that Ruspheti. Rushphetti is a given in this area. It is what will continue and exist. I would like, however, in this year, to congratulate the social mission of the Hellenic Army and, more generally, the Armed Forces, especially the Navy and the Port Authority, which is at present experiencing difficult times, due to the intensification of migration. We see winter and we estimated that we would have a reduction in winter, and yet what did I read yesterday, the other day? "The prices of the traffickers fell and bring them directly into Greece." Since it has long been, they ask for less money to pass on to them, not to stop that lushness that is made daily. So the provisions of the bill following these remarks, which I have made, are, in our view, positive. Mr Saridis, our speaker, put forward an important issue, which I too would like to support, Mr Minister, that of the degree of relatives of the Armed Forces who are cared for, care for people with disabilities. Perhaps you will allow me to insist on this point, to extend the degree of family to the fullest possible extent. It says the bill about first-degree kinship. But, first grade is mother-children, father-children. Brothers are second grade. We have families right now in Greece who have problems. I would therefore like the Ministry to look for this figure to see the economic, in any case, burden, which should not be high, should not be unbearable. The bill you bring and you are proposing creates costs - and good - on many points at the expense of the state budget, because we have a period of many years that is also the financial situation of the military officials at a standstill. I think, therefore, that with what I have referred to, I have exhausted the issue of the bill, because whatever else I may say, I imagine it would be identifiable and circumcised in relation to the position of all the wings. But, as I am given the opportunity, I will use part of the rest of my time to address the Minister for the Amendment, which is of particular interest to us, to the Elefsis Shipyards. I have seen this amendment. I have, of course, repeatedly expressed in this Chamber my objections to the way in which it has been legislated by delayed amendments. I don't want to be too tiring. I have said that when the Constitution gives an unlimited right to vote and to an opinion to the Member, it is assumed that the necessary time for the study, the weighting, must be ensured so that it can be placed. With late payments, this cannot be the case. In any case, it is something that the government, as I imagine the previous ones, followed, continues to respect with piety, thinking that this results in a direct legislature. So this amendment, to which the President-in-Office may refer, is as follows: a contract between the Hellenic Navy, between the well-known Elefsina Shipyard company, is to be ratified. I do not want to refer to her history. It's ice-cream know-how. The problems are well known. Don't remember the submarines. Let's not remember anything with the Greek shipyards anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u143	These are other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u144	I know. That is why I said 'with the Greek shipyards'. I didn't identify them, Minister. I know. So it comes in conjunction with the protection of workers, which is indeed a social issue. I fear, however, that the way the amendment is introduced is not right. We believe that a legislative framework should have been drawn up before, which will regulate these conventions, and we will be able to have a position through this House earlier in the rules under which it will be concluded. While, on the contrary, what is going on today? This convention is coming, which has been signed two months ago, from what I see and it says: 'Come to ratify it'. But we can't discuss the terms of the contract. We cannot make any changes because it comes as a ratification as if it were an international agreement. Finally, we give her increased power of the law, without being able to place us. I think, therefore, that this convention has the potential, Minister, to define beforehand - it is an opportunity to say - a regulatory framework. To withdraw the amendment, to bring in a regulatory framework, to sit down and talk about it, to know. I must also say this: our experience, the poor or the greater, says this: it will not end with the ratification of this convention the issue of shipyards. He'll come back, he'll come back all the time. I was young and I was old! Allow me. The first time I heard about shipyards was in 1992, which the then governments were running because they were in danger of going bankrupt - there is no need for details - to settle known trade unionists, known persons of the time. We are in 2016 and we continue. I would therefore propose that the amendment be withdrawn. I will make some selective remarks on this contract, which you have brought us. He has signed the Greek state and says he will take over the construction in the manner of concessions, facilities, staff, of these two torpedoes, if I am not mistaken, if that is his subject matter. But there is an important issue. He's going to give a punk. What's this 40 million? I haven't understood. So we see that it will pay the Greek state 40 million. With regard to the 40 million, however, it says something else that concerns me, that no new guarantee letters will be given, since payments from the Greek State will begin, but it says that "for the implementation of the programme of the Ministry of Finance and additional aid amounting to more than 40 million, more than 40 million will be charged to the detriment of the advance letters held by the Hellenic Navy". So, can these 40 million slowly, even in the gradual way described in the contract, be collected by the contractor, so let me call him the owner of the yard and then the State have no guarantee? Will you then be called, or whatever government it is, to sign a new contract of the same content? I don't understand, I have to look after myself. Will you, then, be called upon to sign a new similar contract? I have some other objections not to extend my time. The draft law, as it comes, has a tragic contradiction in the first article. The relevant Convention 001/00, including Amendments 1 to 12, shall remain in force for the purpose of regulating matters which are not governed by the Agreement ratified by this new Agreement. We therefore have an initial contract and one which partly amends it. You have, however, brought a new addition as a legislative improvement and you say that the agreed agreement does not constitute or is not interpreted as a resignation of the Greek State by the rights deriving from the main convention and its amendments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish, Mr President. So who is it? Is the lady the matter? You should, I think, fill in 'as will be the case with the new' because this creates a legal mismatch. And, of course, I am ending with the privileges and immunities you provide, even though you have tried to cover them with a legislative improvement, concerning the extent, the movable and immovable property that will serve the contract. There's a full series of immunities. It shall not be expedited, any operation of an administrative execution in accordance with the Code shall be suspended, bankruptcy law shall not apply to others. If, therefore, policy is to end what has been ordered, not to lose the state's money, seek a solution through the European Union, because this is what I think they will not give a solution. They have a long history of shipyards. To sum up, I would like to say this: the positive provisions of the basic draft law will be voted on. We will place ourselves on the bill as a whole at the second meeting. As for the amendment, for which I have requested some clarification, I will await your reply, Minister, to put myself on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the next speaker, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, thirty students and students and three teachers from the 8th Patras High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Dimitrios Sevastakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u146	And then you'll stop, Mr. President, won't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u147	Let's talk, Mr. President. We're right after Mr. Sevastakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u148	Here, Mr Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. He wants to talk to Mr. Davakis after me. Last night there was another tragedy outside Samos in the waters between Samos and Turkey. We had twelve dead, eight of whom were children. It is a constant record that creates something, a unity of public space. It is what I think is in the spirit of the bill, which we should identify and praise. It is the partnership of the military structures with policies, the composition of the public space in a unity, which is due to the refugee crisis, but also our ideology, our collective ideology, that is, that is, that wants the public system, the state, structures and citizens to cooperate in the creation of our collective culture, our daily culture. I'm staying in one area of the bill that I'm very interested in. It is the one that legislates the extension of the mandate of doctors, their integration, in essence, into the health system. It was something we used to ask in our contacts with the Ministry. They can support their scientific and economic development by extending their term of office, because the positions are getting widowed, the public space is stripped by executives, the public space is pressed to lose its public character. And that is a multifaceted problem that we find every day, every minute, either in our provinces or in the large urban centres. So this composition of the two structures, I think, helps and we should point it out. There are a number of concerns and positions in the bill on mobilisation. Half the places are trialed for intent: You have the intention to make this falsification, to have this political selfishness, to control - let's say - the Minister for Transitions. Or, on the other hand, they interpret reality, that it is a refreshing central reality, which has set up a kitten for favors. I think that this insecurity also runs the positions of colleagues from the Civilian Representation, since the rapporteur was positive and the rest of the speakers were rather negative, or at least raised the evidence with which they objected or doubted the bill. So the criteria he sets out, I think they have a new quality, that you see the class level, but you also see the special weakness of the soldier or his family. This must be included. It actually rationalizes rather than - I think - it opens the doors of selfishness. Also, there are the care for polytecuses and tritecuses. It is indeed very important that they should be given the support they need. I insist, however, and return - I stress as positive the comments made on the Elefsina shipyards and the Ministry's intention to see the whole issue - in the reconstruction of the public space. I didn't even see it in the mediocrities about the armies' completeness. Note that whenever we hear a rhetorical exponential, metaphysical - such as the extreme right-wing speaker - about the army, we lose a vital place. This dramatic historical repetition is permanent and common. The concept of public space, the reconstruction, the reconstructuring of public space without dogmatism, without service struggles, without administrative insecurity, I think it gives us an operational tool. The public space is a place of supply, and the administration, bureaucracy, the state to find the regulatory tools with which it will become, will allow this composition. Reality asks for it, society asks for it, the middle conscience asks for it. I think that if the state, the government and the political system manage to read this, read this collective attitude, it will also win the legislation, it will win the integrity, non-selfishness, honesty, cleanliness in the regulation of the public space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Sevastakis. Mr. Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, last Tuesday's echo in this Chamber at the level of the parties leaders is still in the process. The Minister of National Defence Mr Kammenos, referring to the President of the New Democracy - and I will thus begin, Mr Minister, my speech, in the few minutes I have - spoke about matters relating to insurance, as he said, of the Armed Forces, the Funds, their proper management and real estate. It is obvious that it is confusing certain conditions, given that the insurance policy, as Mr Kammenos said, has nothing to do with it, nor is it financed by the property of the Armed Forces, which cannot, by object, deliver and meet the needs of the insurance company. According to existing legislation, even if part of the property is exploited, a small percentage will end up with those that go to the EMCDDA to be precise. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the property of around 35 billion, which is a reward value that is still lushing in many decisions, which in the end have no effect. I'm talking about the National Defence Fund, the National Defence Fund, the Fleet Fund and the Air Force Fund. It is worth wondering, since it is invoked by the political leader and co-pilot with Mr. Tsipras, what he has done so far for the use of this property. I say this because there are also proposals and studies in the Ministry of National Defence which can give a favourable perspective in this direction, which unfortunately has not existed so far. Leaving younger people, he said, is due to the fact that these children are eighteen years old in productive schools and after thirty - five years of actual service they have paid for their insurance obligations. We must not throw out in this Chamber'spray bombs' because, in fact, the Armed Forces, this vast world, officers, officers, soldiers, whose issues we regulate, we are being watched in this Chamber and we have now trained them, Mr. Minister, all of us, politicians, women and men, with our attitudes, with our choices, with our own self-determination, with our indecisive and all that compose the treatment of them from us. My group, during the period of ruling and managing national defence issues, gave this 50% of the right by the Council of State of their detentions and cuts, and we thought that in an environment of economic stability we would proceed with the performance of the remaining 50%. To have the Minister come and say, 'We will give the rest of the 50%' etc., Minister, I think that the reality itself is disgusting, but also his own colleagues, who said this morning in a timely question from a colleague, Mrs Papakostas, that the government must also take care of other social groups. I have Mr. Juliaraki's note. It says that it is suffocating the dilemma for the appropriate rate of payment, that we need to see the issue from a zero base and the National Ministry - it refers there - wants to make expenditure cuts. Kammenos: "The money has been found, it has been entered in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, on equipment. The Ministry of Finance has the floor". You rule. Is this another latifundium the Ministry of Finance, another place? Give it to me, then. You know, in the old barracks, when there was the cavalry, there was a trembling, which was a trick, when there was no hay for animals, the "heavy border". Because those heroic doughs were hungry, there was this trembling and quiet thinking food was coming. We do not want to 'burden' to those people who have all understood us and our intentions - we have trained them, as I have said - and all those who compose our attitude toward them. I repeat, one who, although modest, must tell the historical truth: that at the Government of Samaras 50% of the right was given by the Council of State. In any case, it cannot be the government's minister - I say Mr Juliarakis - say that we need to see more when there is a right from the Council of State. I told the committee, Mr Vitsa, who supported the bill, that while various extra-institutional bodies have been invited and, in any case, by a decision of Parliament and fully respected, the Heads of State and Government had to go ahead with the drafting of bills, which relate to the staff of the Armed Forces to come as well. And I feel very well when the Minister said that he accepted this appeal, since in this particular case, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about their staff. I don't know if that file went to the Chiefs and if it was submitted. He'd probably go before he came to the House as a bill. It would be interesting to see their comments, what they said about psychological support offices, what they said about 2%. You understand that 2% in this case, i.e. two hundred per ESS, six ESS per year, are a thousand and two hundred people. It's a very good number...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u152	Six are in the Dry Army. It's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u153	Yeah, but the Dry Army has the world. Navy and Air Force, whoever happens. The Dry Army has the material. So do we close the door or do we close it? I listened to Mrs Skoufa, who spoke with a complaint against ruffles. We force them to come to our offices. It is a education that has been created, which has made military service - which is an honor for every Greek person to give nine months of his life for the country - to be a waste of time. Because that sounded like it. Clearly synergies can be made, things being done, so that this time can be more beneficial. But, in itself, the experience of the term is a huge matter. If we turn thirty years back, we would say that we would again like to serve in more unfavourable conditions. It's a matter of discipline and understanding. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On Rule 25, I shall refer to the debate on the articles, Minister. I feel like you should see it. We know about excellence, but that's not the point. The absolute election, that is to say Article 17 that you are 'experimenting', will raise a huge issue for the anti-parliamentarians, who will tomorrow be called upon to be the leadership of the Armed Forces, with everything that that means for the downfall in the case of excellence or, in any case, for the best performance. I'll see you in the articles. I think we should be careful. There must be a concrete response from the official political leadership, about retrospectives and all that is constantly said as slogans here and, ultimately, they offend the ranks of active and repatriated officials. As far as the entry of the soldiers into the IKA since 2011, the Minister did not say anything. There is a document that says that they have to go through a special regime, but in fact it accepts and does not respond to the political leadership - you must know, Minister - about the integration of the soldiers into the IKA, instead of asking for their reparation in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Davakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u155	I'm done, Mr. President. On 15 January 2016...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u156	I signed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u157	The Minister has signed it. You must have signed it, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr Davakis, who was the last speaker. Before we proceed to the vote at first reading, the Minister, Mr Vitsas, has asked for the floor. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u159	Yes, Mr. President. As far as the articles and amendments which I have not accepted are concerned, we will talk at the sitting at 6 p.m. I would like to raise three points, particularly those which they raise, if we do not vote on the bill in principle. First of all, what is there at the moment and is it, you would say, the transfer? There is the Constitution of Greece, the law of operation of the Ministry of National Defence, which, in essence, does not fully mention it, gives the Minister the transfer and there are orders and ministerial decisions. That's all there is. We've got to fix, one would say, a process of settlement. There is also the assignment - I am talking about the SYRIZA - ANEL Government now - of the responsibilities of the Minister and the Deputy Minister. There it is stated that the transfer, as far as the officers are concerned, belongs to the Minister and the transfer to a lower level and the armed forces belong to the Deputy Minister. In a sense, existing, you can't even transfer responsibility to the General Staff. What am I saying? You can carry her. So in keeping with the political control of this procedure, I have explicitly stated - it is the fourth time that I have done so - that we have agreed with the General Staff for a uniform manner of mobilisation. Mrs. Papacosta said something. I think Mr Tassoulas answered Mrs Papacosta in relation to the modulations, etc. I'll say a word for that too. However, in this process, the mobilisations, to which Mrs Papacosta referred, concerned only the Drought Army and did not concern the other bodies. Seems from those who declared where they served, that I'm the only one who served in the Mississippi Army as a chef.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u160	Me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u161	And Mr. Tasoulus, as he says now. So the process will be this, and I want to make this clear. We end up with the law. We are discussing with the Staff a single moleculation logic and then relocating responsibility to the General Staff. Now beware of the contradiction. If there were all this and it was well burned, because then we all agree that the rushphetti, which I wish, Mr Tasouula, would come from the Turkish rule, but we also have points of ruffel that concern the Byzantine state, and even further, unfortunately...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u162	In Byzantium, there was an SAAP!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u163	Yes, for the officers, Narciss and Velissarios, etc. So I'm saying, why was there? Because there's another way to break a regulatory procedure or one order, and another is to violate a law. It's not the same. In this respect, therefore, I also added in my speech that there is also the procedure or, if you like, the basic element of political will. Because Mr. Loverdos reminded me now that he said what this bill adds, I can tell you eight things, which he arranges and I will do quickly: A single treatment of all arms transfers independently of industry. Integrated molecules system, comprising three types of criteria. I won't mention it again. Establish economic criteria, linked to family income. It broadens the social criteria, which in some cases have been a cause for the exception, and now there is a classification. Restricts the permitted decommissioning and transfer limits. He's been publishing the 50 molecules lately. It controls the exceptions from the Committee of the Parliament and collects the information of its own motion. But the basic thing, which Mr. Loverdos knows much better, is not just what he adds but what he removes. It is of great importance that it removes pressure from the Staff. It removes political pressure from or to the Members and puts us in another process. That's my opinion. So that's what matters. That's the one. The second thing I want to say, and it's just a word, is this. I understand - I may be wrong, but I think I am not doing - that if the principle is to deal with these issues, then placed at the outset and to the extent that we see that it is a rather fair system, in principle we are voting on the articles, or on the exceptions, for example, we are voting against it. When we discuss the exceptions, I will ask - to think about this two-hour period - how is it possible for someone, who is in Engineering or In the Infantry or in Ormene - let me take it that way - to go to Skopelos for three months if we remove the flexibility of the respective staff to do so. And how is it possible to suddenly need more germacht's files to help translating when the other system is not able to do it or just reaching the limit? So with regard to the exception, I understand. He says, "Look at you, putting that exception, I suppose you want to undermine the beginning." But the principle is the main one in this case. There is also a third point I would like to raise, not to mention again, because there has been a certain debate. First of all, the worthy of the Armed Forces, in my opinion, is not questioned. In fact, I have referred to this since the beginning. It's not just the crowd, it's power. That is what we are trying on the one hand to ensure. Secondly, the social offer of the Armed Forces, particularly in these difficult circumstances - I shall not generally refer to it - is still not questioned. I would like to say to you: with regard to the issue of refugee and migration flows, so far the Ministry of National Defence - and in that sense the Armed Forces - has offered eight inactive camps. Three and a half million pieces of food had provided only the Army General Staff, that is, only the Army, by November.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u164	"Three and a half" millions you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u165	I accept it, as you correct me. It is "three and a half" million. At the level of research and rescue, the Navy has helped me - let me - the masses. I'm right here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u166	Awesome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u167	I would like to tell you that this was mainly done by the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. I say this because our European friends also do some strange numerics. I don't know if everyone's got a hammer that, to move a warship, a rocket, a cannon truck, they need fuel. There are, if you want, deterioration. These must be replaced.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u168	If you have such friends, what do you want with the enemies?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u169	If you have such enemies, what do you want with friends? And he goes by saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u170	Minister, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u171	We will also talk about the articles in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the Ministry of National Defence's bill: 'Regulating the issues of transfer of soldiers, staff care and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u173	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u174	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u175	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u176	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u177	We're in custody.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u178	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Consolidation of issues of transfer of soldiers, care of staff and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. I would like to stress that this afternoon the meeting will be opened at 6 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S1-commons.u179	With the consent of the House at 16.20 p.m., the meeting for this afternoon at 18.00" on the subject of the House's legislative work, the continuation of the debate on the articles and amendments and the adoption of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Consolidation of issues relating to the transfer of soldiers, the care of staff and other provisions".
