ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Before we begin, we have to say that today of the fifteen time-limits one will be answered. The first under number 635/8-32016, the first question of the first cycle of MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Panagiotas Vanjas, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the allocation of rights to support the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) for the period 2015-2019, is not discussed due to a blockade by the Member. The second, with number 628/7-3-2016, is a top-level question by the Member of the Attica Parliament, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the "prohibition of the speech of the Metropolitan Laureate and Messagias Mr. Nicholas in the 15th Single High School of Thessaloniki", not discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister. The third, with number 627-7-3-2016, top-stage question of the first-stage question of the Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on "the expulsion of the Orthodox Hierarchs from the Greek schools", is not discussed due to lack of competence. The fourth under number 626/7-3-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the problems created in the operation of all social structures and other services of the municipalities throughout the country, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fifth under number 633/8-32016, a top-level question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Finance, concerning compensation for the officials involved in the organisation, support and conduct of the tests of qualifications and behaviour of the candidates, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The sixth under number 631/8-3-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of public services to the Kerani Smoking Plant in Rendi, is the only one to be discussed. We must also say a thank you to the Deputy Minister, Mr Alexiades, who is always consistent at the time of the debate on the current questions and always comes and answers. The first, with number 634/8-32016, a top-level question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the reopening of the Police School and the conversion of the Police Department Karditsa, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The second under number 629/7-3-2016 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament Evros of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios State, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the completion of the Greek school of Munich, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr President, Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Member of the Commission, will be presenting an annual report on the implementation of the programme. The fourth question under number 630/8-32016 of the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the amount of delayed loans granted to the Pegassos company, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fifth question under number 602/1-32016 is a timely question for the second cycle of the under-study, the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republic of the PASOK-DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastinos, to the Minister of National Defence, on the abundance of refugees - non-legal immigrants in Kastelorizo. The sixth question under number 599/1-32016 of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on redundancies in the Greek Defence Systems (ESA) is not discussed in consultation with the Minister. The seventh question, number 609/1-32016, on the dismissal of a trade unionist, working on the chain of shops - a coffee company, "MIKEL COFFEE COMPANY" in Drama, is not discussed in consultation with the honourable Member with the Minister. The eighth Question No 578/23-2-2016 is an eighth question for the Member of Parliament, Mr. Sakis Bardalis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the dismissal of a worker at the factory of "K.E. KARAMARAKIS - KARAS S.A. - ANNUAL INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE INSTITUTIONS' IN the Industrial Area of Sindos, in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, is not being discussed because of an impediment by the honourable Member. The first 305/15-10-2015 question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the need for a government's legislative initiative on pension and prosperous issues of HEIs, is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. But all questions are not debated because of an impediment by the Ministers. The only question to be discussed is Mr. Kammenos, and Mr. Kammenos is lucky, who is the first...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-11-S1-commons.u2	First and last!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-11-S1-commons.u3	That's why I'm saying you're lucky, because there's no one else. So we will now discuss the sixth under number 631/8-3-2016 topical question of the first cycle of MP II Piraeus, the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the transfer of public services to the KERANIS Smoking Plant at Rentis. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, Minister! It's just you and me again. Today it's just you and me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-11-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Theonas is here, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-11-S1-commons.u6	And Mr. Theonas. Mr. Theonas is always with us. I don't know why, someone's calling him. It is important - to explain a little bit - to hear from anyone watching from us on television - that it has been fourteen years since 2002, when some EUR 70 million has been spent to make use of the old KERANS smoke station in Redis, and no move has been made in this direction. The aim was to buy, renovate this building in order to transfer there public services and save millions of euros, which spend the public in rent in diffuse buildings across the Attica basin. There could be a transfer - and there had been discussions - the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Rural Development and the Piraeus Courts. In fact, in many cases, there have been intense reactions, even with out-of-court appeals for justice, so that the procedure does not go ahead, that is, the public does not go to this building. I'm not sure, you'll tell us, if you have the evidence, and how big this building is, I think it's 1,800 square meters, 1,500 square meters, 2,000 square meters. I don't remember it well, I don't know. This issue requires an immediate solution. This government should give solutions and save money, but possibly find the guilty, who fourteen years have forbidden the State to save money and pay corresponding rents while it has bought a building and has renovated it with money from the Greek people. Mr. Minister, you ask: Why, despite the great cost of EUR 70,000 000 to buy and rebuild the KERAN building, has there been no relocation of any public service? Why, despite the efforts of many of the ministers, before you, to carry out the transfer of a service, did they all fall into the void? What opposes the transfer, and what are the reasons for it? If we have that evidence. It is extremely important to have them. When are the results of the public Prosecutor's inquiry into the legality of the sale and reconstitution contract of the KERANI building expected and whether it is for the benefit of the State? Finally, is it true that you intend to transfer financial services there? Has the suitability of the building been checked and, if not, when is it expected that the check will be completed, as are the tax and customs associations, who are of the same interest and have made a letter in order to relocate there? Is it true that you are not able, because of lack of competence, to ask for and investigate safety issues in the building before it officially goes to your jurisdiction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-11-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-11-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if in the political dictionary of the country we should put under the word'scandal' some examples, this is one of the most characteristic cases for what it means to be wasted on the public and what it means to be scandalously favourable to specific interests, because your question needs to be opened up with a very large file on the rents paid by the Greek State, while the Greek State has its own buildings and can house services. I would like to tell you that only in the Ministry of Finance in 2014 we spent 24,000 euros to house our services, when the Ministry of Finance through the General Secretariat of the Public Property has almost all the management of public property and was able in Athens and the region to house the services in modern buildings first of all for the citizens but also for the employees themselves. So we are opening a huge issue, which you are sure will not close easily. There's no way we're gonna let these things fall down like this. As far as this building is concerned, I should first of all like to tell you some information. The building has an area of forty thousand square meters, of which the parking spaces are about two thousand eight hundred and eight thousand square meters, i.e. about 650 parking places. The jobs that the building can accommodate are in the order of 2.100 to 2,400 and the monthly rent paid by the public are EUR 221,000, i.e. 2,650,000 per year, to be closed. We pay this rent and the building is closed! And it's not the only cost for the Greek public. That's not a joke. This is what is happening in Greece, where we are cutting off a lot of citizens' rights, which we are forced to put in tax measures hard. It is not the 221 000 euros a month to keep the building closed the only cost, because the public is charged with PPC, PES, it is charged with guarding the building by police twenty-four hours a day, and it is obliged to be there. It is indeed a sad situation in which we end, because the powers of the Ministry of Finance are the housing of the services in general of the public. We start at home, to be an example of what needs to be done all over the state and in all cities. We've requested evidence and we've gathered evidence. I'll answer you very specifically. First of all, you ask whether the building is suitable or not. You know, in trying to prevent some people from moving there, the world's scenarios, for asbestos, for static problems, for health and safety problems have been heard. Only that he has the alien building didn't tell us and that at some point a spaceship like in the works of science fiction will come out of the basement and destroy those who are in it! We might hear something like that. I will, however, submit to the Minutes, among other documents, the document of the corresponding service, the Technical Services Directorate of the Ministry of Finance, because I fully trust the public administration. We will not resort to private technicians or elsewhere to establish whether the building is suitable. The Technical Services Directorate that has a complete file says at the end: "The building therefore has all legal permits for urban issues, static adequacy, lighting, ventilation, etc. In particular, for the purposes of issuing the authorisation, a Health and Safety Plan and a Health and Safety Plan is provided for.’ Because in health and safety matters, I have a sensitivity because of my previous capacity, the trade union, I went and visited the building. Be sure that once the formalities are finished, I will also ask a delegation from the House to go. I will also ask that the journalists should also open up to the Greek people to see the size of the scandal, what we had been closed up so long and what we had to do. The building has impeccable hygiene and safety conditions. It is bioliquid, has large spaces, has equipment and furniture that is with nylon and paper on it. Because I have visited too many buildings of the Greek state - since 1987 I have served in the Greek State - there is no such building, so large a building with such conditions of almost luxury, which we keep closed on these issues. On the question of justice you referred to - because the other document said that I would present it to you - the Ministry of Justice replied. I shall submit to the minutes relevant documents showing that three criminal proceedings in this respect, number C08-8855, C07-7182, C08-5350, have been filed. The pleadings related to issues relating to the interruption of work in the building of the former tobacco warehouses on the occasion of construction work, dangerous building, etc. On these issues, the case has been filed. The economic prosecutor also replies that the case of the specific investigation he is doing has been filed in accordance with Article 43 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Of course - and I, in journalistic terms, know it, I don't know it from somewhere else - there's an investigation into the purchase and sale of the building. I will submit the relevant document of the Settlement and Management Unit, which describes that they were transferred without consideration to the HSE by fully ownership of thirty-five real estates of the State, including this one, which were subsequently exploited by the GOI using the method of sale and redemption, ‘sale and please back’. This issue from what I read in the press is a matter of judicial investigation. You're asking a question to another minister. It must be investigated if there is a matter. Any move of services there doesn't close the issue. The same thing needs to be explored because, we need to see, those who are pulling our fingers today and criticising us when they were in the Ministry of Finance or the other Ministries, how they managed these issues. For I am in favour of cutting costs, but such costs, not sacking cleaners or cutting wages or other workers' rights or other situations. As far as the question of the appropriateness of the building is concerned, therefore, the answer is very clear. I would like, however, here - and with a tolerance from the Bureau in relation to time - to inform the House of some critical elements that I found concerning the rents of the Greek public. I told you that that's where we pay 221,000 euros a month for it is closed. At the same time, in some other services of the Ministry of Finance we pay the following month: CCIMPs EUR 32,870, CCIMPs: EUR 18,440, HICPs: EUR 15,360, EMIs: EUR 11,235, TENs: EUR 8,000, IORPs: EUR 135,000. These are rents paid by the Greek State this month, plus a lot more to get to the Ministry of Finance at EUR 24,000. These buildings that I told you raise us EUR 220,000 a month and host less than a thousand five hundred employees. They're hosting a thousand with a thousand employees. In other words, if this is exploited, we have more than a thousand jobs empty. And if we compare these buildings to the specific ones, like the building of the Dispute Settlement Directorate or other buildings to what they are, it's like comparing a dump to a palace. Here, too, there's a parking lot and a whole series of other things. But weird things don't stop there. The strangest thing is, if we compare, because based on your question, I've been investigating the rents of the public... [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I think we should probably go to the dentistry for the rest of the evidence. Just say the last two. If we compare public rents and compare how much we pay per square metre in this building that is literally a palace, we pay EUR 5.6 per square metre, this is the rent that corresponds, whereas in the other buildings, which are much worse, without parking, we pay EUR 11,56, EUR 9,92, EUR 14,50, EUR 14,60, EUR 13,50 the square metre. As you can see, you have opened a great wound to the Greek public. We, as the Ministry of Finance, will do our utmost to save money, to make use of public property, and there is no case for even a euro of the citizen who manages not to respect it and not to use it reverently.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-11-S1-commons.u10	Minister, the evidence you gave us is shocking. As a citizen, I was informed about many waste issues of the Greek public. As a politician for a year and something I have the luck of being in this House, I did not imagine that range. We can talk about scandal, we can say koruna about the previous ones, but this is a felony fraud on a continuing basis and deceit - I will not be ashamed to say it - against the Greek people and the Greek public. When you have your own building, which you pay EUR 2,650,000 a year to keep it closed and which is in the best conditions available, it's like a hotel, as you said, I'll go alone before the others, I'll go see it now that you told me, I'll open it and I'll see it - and at the same time instead of 5,5 euros the square that we pay in this building the super-multiple, we pay 13, 14, 15 or 17 euros the square for public buildings, there's a fraud. It doesn't explain any differently. A building in a neighborhood cannot rent the public with 14 euros square and on the other hand be a building with 5.5 euros square. It's a problem. I'll come back and look for it in court. I would just ask you, what you have told us today, to submit it to the House and we will have to undertake - I personally commit to taking over all the buildings that you have given us, to see how the contracts were made, to whom the contracts were made, when they were submitted to the tax office, if they were involved to give the best prices and offers. When were the contracts renewed? In the midst of a crisis, have contracts been renewed at the same or better prices? Let's see this too, because in the five years you imagine that we have renewed a contract with low-priced commercial values, with a recession, with the broken-down real estate market and how much more of commercial leases, to have the same prices as we had before a crisis or more expensive. You said you came in and saw the building and dreamed of a luxury but also a fat. There would be a reason, I imagine. I hope that this reason was somewhat justified, because if we paid 70,000 000 euros to take a bath in a yogurt, I do not think there is any yogurt in the building or any apartments that are curious with closed doors and marbles and granites, because if we gave money to a contractor to get us granite and yogurt in a public building, which we are paying today to be closed, the one who signed the receipt of the building from the contractor and the renovation, which gave 70,000,000 euros of the Greek people, should tell us what his purpose was to make this money. I first went to Elefsina's customs for the first time in my life, which took four tons of food for immigrants for the aggregations of the Piraeus Church, from a lanja, from a ship, it doesn't matter now. People are so helpful, but I was ashamed of the Greek state when I saw the state of the building, the archives, the ways of operation, the means and the place in which people work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm going to set an example. They take the whole coast to St. Theodores, the sea and the inside. It's a hundred seventy factories and the customs office in Elefsina. The spaces are unacceptable. Here, then, there is to be an investigation. Thank you very much for the trouble you have put on the services to find these facts. Please testify so that we can come back and make a thorough check. We're not gonna let it go. We need to set a good example. Somebody has to be punished. There are no more political responsibilities. There is criminal responsibility for me, malicious and infidelity from fraud, because I'm building it, I'm putting ten outlaws in saying 'don't transfer public services', so that the official is afraid to sign - you know how they work - to carry a service if the building falls. So it's aliens who get the 2,650? There we conclude that an alien takes 2,650 and sits next door we pay four or three times the price per square meter. I find it unacceptable. It is the responsibility of this government, my own, that I could not imagine the scale of the scandal, and of your own, which you revealed, to bring it to fruition and to give the solutions to publicity. But what we find, we have to make it public so that people can see that someone is now running their money properly. We should not keep wasting the money that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-11-S1-commons.u11	Thank you too, Mr. Kammenos. Minister, you still have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-11-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, first of all I would like to make it clear that the first office to be transferred to this building will be mine and that I will respond indirectly to the issues that arise. There are offices that have been converted in recent years with facilities in which I have not even seen them in friends' homes. In other words, there is really a luxury, but it will appear in the course and with cameras. But I will ask for my office and my colleagues to be transferred there as the first office and in the symbolic sense that there is no problem with regard to space, but also to stop this racism, that we should all be around the Syntagma Square, that it is near Kolonaki and shops and that because it is at Rente's - because I hear such racism - how the Ministry of Finance, which has a glump, will go there anyway. So I'm gonna ask for the first office to be my office. In relation to the building, which has basic and necessary infrastructure, which should have all the buildings. He's got an amazing kindergarten station, special shaped inside, he's got an amazing medical office, and all this stuff's closed. They're closed even to use for the kids around there, anyway. Of course it has instruments and offices of ministers, which have been processed with luxurious facilities in previous years. There have also been excessive expenditure. For example, in the parking lot, to raise parking spaces, there are lots of parking that climbs the car into a mechanism, press a button, climbs up and goes under another car. That's the money we were throwing! Because this is paid out by the Greek people's money, so we can understand what has happened. In relation, however, to the general problem of rentals, I think we must put our weight on there and highlight what has been done. I asked and they brought me a simple painting. It's still in initial form, but I think it'll be completed. So I got to every service to find out how many employees are serving and what the rent we pay is to see how much it costs us per employee. I saw that we have services that we pay per employee for rent EUR 667, elsewhere EUR 704, elsewhere EUR 936. I imagine that if we go to a - not a five-star - four-star hotel and say "to bring thirty employees, how much do you want a month?" he will ask us for something much less and give them breakfast. The seasons, then, which some thought the public was the 'cow that should water everyone', are over. We're going to make an economy. We're gonna run right. We have already launched a relocation programme for the Lecade. We're not going to move DU Kifisia to take her to Renida's, because she has her own building, and why she has to be in Kifisia. But the rest of the services, which there is no need to be in an area, will have to be moved to suitable buildings, either at Rende's or elsewhere. We are also taking care of this in the region. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like a minimum of time, Mr President, to finish. We have also called for a similar move to be made in the region, because there can be no cities where - only for the Ministry of Finance I will say, I am not saying for the other ministries - tax is in another building at the customs office, at another building in the ILO - now the IEA - in another place, in the General Chemistry, in another inspection. Mercy! We called on the services of the Ministry of Finance to gather in each city in a building, and to make economies of scale, for example in the protocol, in terms of management, and to be able to make better management and serve the citizen, because you think of a businessman who has a topic, for example in Yannina, and runs from tax to customs, to the ILO, which are in different places. And the customs office and the IAEA are paying for it. It's not public. If it was public, let's do that waste. So because we want to give the Greek citizen the good example of the management of money, which we know in what bloody way he puts it in the public fund, we confirm that we will do everything possible to make use of the public service and to preserve the last euro. I submit for the record the documents I have just described.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-11-S1-commons.u13	I am very pleased that there is something positive in this debate. But I would say to you, Minister, that this is a more general matter because it concerns almost all of the country. It is characteristic that in Rhodes - Mr Theonas knows - IKA has a building which, for construction reasons, was not received and was not exploited. But there is. IKA still rents other places to pay. There is another huge space, the old hospital, which all the ministers visit from time to time - not of the present, but of the previous governments - and they say that it must be exploited, such as the KERANIS, which you mentioned, Mr Kammenos. None of this has happened yet. So there's a splendid field of glory, Minister, since you're in the mood. After the debate on the only topical question we had today, the topical and urgent debate was closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-11-S1-commons.u14	With the consent of the House at 10.30 p.m. the sitting on Thursday 19 March 2016 at 9.30 p.m. on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, a topical and urgent debate, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
