ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 25-1-2016, the Minutes of the Bureau of the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Monday, 25 January 2016, with regard to the vote on all draft laws: 1. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Maritime Transport’ and 2. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the promotion and mutual protection of investments’]] Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the debate on the earlier agenda, I would like to remind you that tomorrow at 13 a.m. there will be an expression of honour, within the agenda of Parliament's work, for the victims of the Holocaust and for the survivors. For my part, there will be a small introductory speech and then, on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Friends, will speak. They will then attend the events that will take place throughout the country tomorrow - whether or not, every year - and representatives of Jewish unions and communities. So tomorrow, at 13:00. Furthermore, on behalf of all the Members - I would say - of the Conference of Presidents, I would like to point out that we have some problems these months in carrying out parliamentary control from the absence of Ministers. This is a well-known matter for the Ministerial Council too. We all know that there are many jobs and many obstacles. Several of the ministers are very consistent, others not as much as they should. I am saying straight away that this situation must be changed in order to make the percentage - and only when it is not different - of questions which are not answered. I would also like to point out that it is better for the ministers themselves, when there is a coma, to communicate with the Member and with the Services. It is not right in person and without any particular explanations being given for the successive postponements to be made to the questions. We should not move on to'measures' - within many introductory words - which at times have been certified or implemented in Parliament, that is to say, the Member being able to say the question himself for as long as he is accounted for, whether or not the Minister is here or not, and to some other measures, because we are interested in the substance. And the essence is that there should be an answer, that there should be cross-checks on the major issues that usually come through parliamentary control and that is not the creation of impressions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION In accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure, at the initiative of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, on the reform of the country's insurance system. Under Rule 143(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, on whose initiative today's debate is taking place, is thirty minutes. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups is twenty minutes per hour. Two Ministers take part in the debate, in this regard Minister Tsakalotos and Minister Katrugalos, with ten minutes' speaking time. I would like to tell you that all the participants in this debate have the right to a dentist, for 15 minutes of the time the Prime Minister and for 10 minutes of the hour the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and the Ministers. Finally, the Prime Minister can close the debate by taking the floor for five minutes. That is what the Rules of Procedure stipulate and are compulsory for us. However, what I would like to ask everyone to do so that this debate does not take long, is that there should be a discipline in time, as well as in the secondary speeches there should be as large a time economy as possible, but not at the expense of the substance. I would ask the Prime Minister, Mr Alexis Tsipras, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on our own initiative today we have a debate on insurance reform in Parliament. Because everyone, all parties, must take a stand before the Greek people on a major social and national level, I would say, an issue, such as the sustainability of our insurance system. Because in the question of whether future generations have the right to social protection and social security, they do not have any refugee. There is no room for disinformation, neither for encryption nor for easy demagogy among the political forces. There is no possibility, moreover, of questioning reality. And the reality is that our insurance system is not sustainable. It has been a problem known for years, but it has deteriorated rapidly in the years of the crisis. It is also known that the sustainability deficit of the insurance system is related to the pillaging of the reserves by the PASOK and New Democracy governments in the previous forty years. It is also related to the demographic problem of our country and, of course, to the political choices made in recent years, the years of crisis, which have reduced by twenty-five points the country's GDP and increased unemployment from 7% to 25%. Because the sustainability of the insurance system is entirely dependent on the growth rates of the economy and the size of employment. Thus, on the one hand, the derailed pension system with cumulative deficits has deprived valuable economic development resources, making a significant contribution to recession and, on the other, the recession has aggravated the state of insurance through low demand, the launching of unemployment by 250% and the resulting reduction in contributions. Only in IKA have a 30% reduction in contributions between 2010 and 2014 and 19.2% reduction in insured persons due to the high unemployment created over the years. Direct insured in IKA have fallen from two and a half million in 2009 to less than two million in 2014. The relationship between pensioners and insured persons in IKA is now 1 to 1,7, while in order to be marginally viable, it should be, in the most optimistic estimates, 1 to 2.1. The wages of insured IKA have average reductions of 21.8% over the past five years, while 46% of new employment contracts relate to part-time or rotary employment, with proportional reductions in the contributions paid. Half of the self-employed do not manage to be consistent with the payments of their contributions for over a six-month period and the debts to the insurance funds currently exceed EUR 13 billion. In short - and why do I mention numbers - what is the problem that we are coming to discuss today? Why are we talking about insurance today? Why are the lenders asking us? Oh, no. Our lenders are asking for a reduction in annual expenditure to 1% of GDP. Today we are talking about insurance, because very simply, if we do not take measures, the system will collapse. If we do not take measures, we will constantly need huge extra sums from the state budget for the payment of pensions, which, under current budgetary conditions, is impossible to find. I would like to remind you that the studies of the UNHCR since 2014 have been blowing the risk code for the strong possibility of inability to pay pensions since 2016, i.e. since this year. Today's, but above all, future data leave no room for reassurance. In order to pay the 2016 pensions, the social security scheme should, in addition to contributions and State funding, find additional resources, in addition to State grants, amounting to EUR 980 million, which are increased to EUR 1.4 billion in 2017 and to EUR 2.5 billion in 2018, with the needs to multiply for the coming years. The IKA alone for 2015 has a deficit of EUR 980 million and the SNE of EUR 540 million. So today we are here and we are talking, because we are on a course which, if not overturned, leads to a collapse of the funds and a failure to pay pensions. In the face of this explosive situation, a version of our own government would also be to do what the previous years have done: hide the problem under the carpet, throw it away in front of the future, with the danger, of course, at some point, suddenly, of paralyzing because of our indecision. But I believe that this is a attitude which is socially irresponsible, nationally irresponsible, I would say, as deeply irresponsible is the attitude that has taken place in recent years, especially the parties who have ruled the place and have the heavy responsibility for today's deadlocks. They are now coming and they are criticizing above. We're swinging the finger instead of being offered a suggestion. They represent the prosecutors while they have huge responsibilities. Since the 1970s, when the rulers have since let the workers' reserves be squeezed at zero return on inflation when the bank interest rates have been above 25%. And this was in order to provide supplies and maritime loans to continents, as well as parasitic, state-owned entrepreneurship. The same took place later, in the 1990s and the first decade of 2000, with the unreasonable participation of the insurance funds at the stock exchange party. Without logic, without scientific knowledge, the reserves of the funds were gambled, while at the same time inviting the ordinary world to participate at the Stock Exchange party, at the delirium that was created. And when the feast ended and the stockup bubble broke, victims, apart from hundreds of thousands of unsuspecting ones, were the funds themselves. But they didn't stop there. Then came the structured bonds, which also cost many millions of euros to reach the epitome of the disaster, the criminal consequences of the PSI, which then lost more than EUR 15 billion. Overall, of course, in the end, the cost is about 12 trillion euros. The banks have also, of course, been recapitalised, but the funds have remained with the deficits. That's the reality. This policy was implemented by previous governments in the management of the funds reserves. You used them over time as a pigeon, through which you satisfied political, party and customer pursuits, without question about the consequences of the actions, but all of the Greek people. At the same time, you also undermined the media system, with provocative synagogues and other clienteles, which made it a demonic and timeless deficit. So, in the face of an obvious deadlock your governments have created, we are now choosing a difficult path, a path of responsibility. We are opening the debate with a sense of urgency and historical responsibility. We have drafted our own comprehensive proposal and put it in dialogue. It is a proposal that has the criterion of equality, social justice and internal redistribution from the richest to the poorest, with respect for the principle of proportionality. So we call on you today - and that is why we are holding this debate - to stop playing hidden. We invited you to dialogue a month and a half ago, at the meeting at the highest level, at the level of political leaders, under the President of the Republic. You refused the dialogue. You have even refused to submit proposals. We are calling again today and before the Greek people who are watching us take a stand on the problem. And don't hide behind the deal. The need for reform that will make our insurance system viable - I repeat - goes beyond the agreement. As far as the agreement is concerned, the obligation to reduce expenditure by 1% of the Gross Domestic Product does not necessarily have to come, according to the letter of the agreement, from new reductions in pensions. As you know, there is always the possibility of finding equivalents. The same happened in Portugal, when - for other reasons - the country's constitutional court did not allow pension reductions and the institutions accepted equivalents. In this context, and absolutely within the letter of the agreement, we have given absolute priority not to retire pensions, and that is why we have called on the largest employers in the country and have persuaded them to put their backs on, to share the burden, so that pensions will not be cut again. And in their honor, they accepted a small increase in employers' contributions by 1%. We have shown with evidence that competitiveness, unlike neoliberal ideals - your ideas - is being burdened with and hampered by 80% of non-wage labour, from energy costs, bureaucracy, distortions of competition, such as tax evasion and customer relations, from borrowing costs. So we have accepted this productive, creative meeting to discuss with them and to promote a number of measures that reduce the overall costs and substantially improve the competitiveness of enterprises, while at the same time giving rise to a positive result both in budgetary terms and in increasing employment, and thereby offsetting this small cost of increasing employers' contributions very quickly. So the questions I want to put directly to all the political forces today, but above all to those who have been responsible for the country's governance since post-Migration, are very specific: You who have created the problem, you who looted the funds in the years of development, you who have created the black holes now, in the years of the crisis, would, in addition to demagoging, have any suggestions to put forward on how you can imagine that the problem that you have created can be dealt with? The government has tabled a proposal in public debate. You may not like it, but we want to challenge you to suggest, to testify something different. We have come to an agreement - I repeat - with the employers. Will you support this agreement, or will you join with the International Monetary Fund, in the name of a neoliberal pseudo-technic idealism, which ultimately leads to new pension cuts? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] That's the question. That is what the vast majority of citizens are waiting to hear today. The great anxiety of the Greek people who are watching is whether we will have new pension cuts, close to the twelve that have been done so far under your own responsibility. We have tabled a proposal which does not provide for new pension cuts. I sincerely expect specific, not vague answers, especially from you who have voted for these eleven consecutive years from 2010 to 2014, which reduced pensions by 35% in total. I don't want to get tired. I will submit to the minutes the eleven consecutive and different pension cuts voted by PASOK, PASOK - New Democracy from May 2010 to July 2014, when it was very easy for you to table proposals, only that these proposals were cuts and cuts in pensions, and now you refuse to submit proposals. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But I want to say one more thing. In the September elections we came under the agreement - that is to say, given the fact that we had accepted the obligation in 2016 to reduce the public expenditure on the insurance system by 1% - and we asked for the Greek people's vote. Then we told the Greek people: 'This is the agreement, but we will do what goes through our hand - and this is our red line towards lenders - so that this agreement does not lead to new painful cuts. We will table a comprehensive insurance reform to be sustainable, but we will find equivalent, so that we do not go to new painful cuts to those who have seen many of their pensions fall." So since then, you have read this agreement quite differently, which you have also voted on. I would remind you what Mr Brutsis said in a television dialogue at a large private station in September, which assured the citizens that whoever is in the place of the Minister of Labour and Social Security after 20 September, that is, after the elections, will have nothing but to implement the agreement, he will have nothing to do with cutting off pensions. He said, a pension a year will definitely be lost. He said, 70% reduction in supplementary pensions is panacea. He said, in full and immediate terms, that the CSCE should be abolished by the agreement. He said, the freezing of growths from unregulated. He said, salvation will come with the further reduction of pensions up to EUR 900, as there are more pensioners receiving pensions up to this amount. So here's how you read the agreement and what exactly you would do if you came to the government. And that is exactly what the Greek people prevented with their vote on 20 September, something you forget, that is, just four months ago, the Greek people gave the popular verdict. That's what you'd do! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But that's what you did. Now we are tabling a completely different proposal and request that you be placed on it. You are talking about the insurance system, and here we are actually raising our hands up, because this is one of the main arguments of the Officerate-Policy, to criticise the government's proposal. It says this: Do not see where the funds have been looted since 1970, do not see where the unemployment of 250%, which is no contribution, lost 25% of GDP in the crisis. All this wasn't working. The insurance was sustainable. Do you know when the insurance went unsustainable? Last year, January, when we managed to win the election and negotiate to July in these seven months. Our insurance system has become unsustainable in these seven months! Keep saying that argument, it really makes us very good. Keep saying it. You tell us this year ago, when you negotiated, you didn't have to make any change to the insurance system, and you even tell us that the institutions didn't push you for 1% of GDP cuts in 2016, but that was the result of our own bad negotiation. Of course, you always forget, when you refer to it, remember the fact that we have at the end a result which, despite difficulties, has 20 billion less austerity in three years -2015, 2016 and 2017 - due to the primary surpluses that you had in 3.5% and 4.2%, and we have the possibility this year for 0%, 1.75% and, at the end, 3.5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u3	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u4	But I would like to remind you, in order to stop the funny arguments, what you, in this House, New Democracy and PASOK, voted in the mid-term of 2014. In the medium-term 2014-2018, you have since predicted, as a basic scenario for the grant of state-owned insurance funds of EUR 9.69 billion, when in the 2016 budget, we, that is, give EUR 10.5 billion. In other words, you yourself, since 2014, have been predicting and voting much less as state spending on insurance than we are giving today with the budget and you have the courage to come and tell us that you have brought about 1% of GDP reductions, while we would not do so, we would only do 300 - you say unregulatedly to the Greek people - which was supplementary pensions. Point 2, equally revealing: I would remind you that in the mid-2013-2016 period, which was submitted in October 2012, the part of the social budget was clearly stated that the progressive reduction of the sum of EUR 1 000 per month is foreseen for pensioners of all social security institutions and the public. That would be enough, therefore, to reveal the size of your fraud and hypocrisy, for things that you had not just accepted, but also voted. Of course, you have inhibited structural reform in the biennial world to make the system sustainable, so that we can have pensions in the coming years. You only accept cuts. Allow me here, ladies and gentlemen, to present the basic principles and philosophy of our proposal. And of course I will be anxious to hear, if any, counterproposal. We are proposing the introduction of a single insurance body for everyone, with uniform rules for calculating contributions and pensions, with exceptions only where specific cases require, for example, farmers and free professionals, that we should open up a dialogue. We establish the national pension for all those who have at least fifteen years of insurance. This is because, after a long-term crisis, it is assumed that a large part of the working population in our country, unfortunately, will not have the possibility of a continuous working life, because we have one and a half million unemployed. In our proposal, therefore, even the long-term unemployed will be entitled to a pension which, because of a negative change in circumstances, is currently more than 70% of the total unemployed. National pensions meet the relevant poverty threshold and are linked to growth rates. The more GDP will grow, the more it will grow. Today, it will start from EUR 384 to EUR 154 years of insurance and, of course, expecting - and this is the most critical of all - positive growth rates. It will be given without any income criterion, it will be financed by the budget and adjusted annually by a ministerial decision. The principal pension to be paid shall be the sum resulting from the national pension and from analogous pension, which shall be dependent on contributions paid throughout the working life, the total time of insurance and the rate of retired earnings. With this system we ensure the public and redistributive nature of the social security system, while providing incentives for insurance and residence at work. Because for us, redistribution, support for the weakest, strengthening the social state is our main political aim but also the core of our ideological identity. Because for us it is not a multi-speed society, nor do we believe that the positive benefits of growth must be enjoyed by only one part of the population, but by all the citizens of the country. You can understand that here is a radical, if you want ideological, contrast. Ideologically separates us from the abyss. You have a neoliberal narrative. I heard this the other day. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Kikilis was at a TV station, who said - listen - that redistribution is an incentive for the lazyness of the poor! For us, redistribution is a part of social justice. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] These are the main dividing lines, these are the ideological differences that separate us from the hard neoliberal views, which are now of course leading the New Democracy's party, even though I acknowledge that they are not an opinion of everyone on the broader side of the conservative area. The payment of the national pension to all persons with 15-year-olds therefore ensures the social character of the scheme, while the explicit State guarantee for all benefits paid ensures that the scheme is public. The State guarantees all pensions paid and not just national pensions. At the same time, the introduction of certain capital elements gives incentives to remain in insurance and to pay contributions, as this payment will also be reflected in future pensions. This brings about a balance between the need to ensure a decent standard of living and the formation of an insurance conscience. The effective integration of the existing social security system by introducing uniform rules for insured persons and the abolition of unfair discrimination between young and old, restores, in our view, the sense of social justice. Everyone will bring in according to their strength, depending on their real income and not on virtual income. To date, the social security system has been characterised by extensive legal and administrative fragmentation. It is characteristic that in 1997 there were twenty-eight main insurance bodies and over two hundred subsidiary insurance bodies. The proposed system is extremely simple and reduces management costs. Administrative and operational consolidation shall be ensured in a transparent manner. The integration of the funds will also improve the collection of resources, given the absence of uniform systems of monitoring and monitoring of revenue to date. Each insured person may at any time calculate the amount of his or her remuneration in the pension. I repeat that our proposal ensures that there will be no reduction in the main pensions. All pensions given today will be calculated from the outset, there will be a personal replacement rate covering the difference between the pension, as recalculated, and the pensioner's present receipt. For example, if someone today has a pension of EUR 1,400 and with the new calculation the pension is EUR 1,360, the personal difference will be EUR 40 in order to continue to collect EUR 1,400. If, under the new system, the pension entitlement is greater than the pensioner receives today, the pensioner will normally receive the extra part. So we want to ask the opposition this: do you want a sustainable social security system that operates on uniform criteria and protects the socially weak first? Do you want a sustainable insurance system which guarantees the social and redistributive nature of the pension, the amount of which will rise in a transparent manner depending on the economic history, or do you prefer the continuation of the old, deadlocked system, together, if necessary, with a new one - twelfth in the order - reduction of pensions? Do you want a social security system that facilitates professional mobility, giving our country's citizens the right to change their profession without being punished, as has been the case in some years, for losing, because the insurer is changing, or do you prefer the perpetuation of insurance inequality, the preservation of seals and discrimination and the abandonment of older citizens at the mercy of the crisis? We expect answers to these specific questions. There is no doubt that the scope for improving our proposal is obviously there. That is why we have sought the dialogue. We are already in open dialogue with social groups for improvements. We are dealing with fair demands and remarks. We're open to criticism. However, we are talking about a criticism of real facts and not of unjustly misinformation. Together with Minister Katrugalo, we have already started consultations with social bodies on methods of normalising adaptation to the new system, without, of course, altering the spirit and philosophy of our proposal. Improving interventions by the Government in favour of younger and weaker categories of professions are already given. We announced them yesterday at a meeting with their representatives. Our main aim is to protect young scientists. That is why we are proposing, for the first five years of professional training, that the contributions be calculated at 80% of the wages of the unskilled worker, namely EUR 468, and not at EUR 586. We have proposed for the first two years that the contribution should not be at 20% of income, but at 14%, and for the three following at 17%. At the same time, we propose exempting from the obligation to pay insurance contributions for those who are suspended from work for the protection of the unemployed. Of course, and with their financial support through a special account managed by the OAED, our aim is to protect the weakest. That is why we recommend that the so-called 'new proletariat', 'precariat', of free professionals and scientists, of people, of young children and, above all, of young people, who work on a block, pay a contribution of only 6% instead of 20%. Of course, we are discussing transitional provisions for the protection of and the most vulnerable middle classes, where there are indeed burdens that we need to correct. I am referring to those who have an income of at least EUR 12 000 and up to EUR 30 000, because those who have an income of less than EUR 12 000 today, with the new system, will have a lower contribution than the contributions they have today. You know, we want to find solutions. But at the same time we are taking the step forward in the proposal and the responsibility of the proposal. And precisely because we want to find solutions, we are open to dialogue, and we do not prefer the suppression of mobilisations, as you have done before with the MATs and the tear gas, nor do we have any reason to want to defamate struggles. The games are useful, as long as these races have conquests, they can work. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] At this point I would like to ask myself why, in my view, it is unprecedented. As far as I remember myself, we have always had agricultural mobilizations, if not every year, almost a year than a year. And the farmers have always had a request to discuss with the government. And the highest request was for everyone to talk to the Prime Minister, to have dialogue. And now that for the first time this has been given to them since the beginning and we are told 'doors are open, come and sit at a table, talk, find solutions', I see some of them denying dialogue with the Prime Minister. I wonder, then! And you know why? Because if there is no dialogue, the claims will not work. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So in that sense, I want to make something clear. We are open to dialogue, we are not confronted with farmers, but we are constantly confronted with farmers' problems. And problems are common and exist. We have received financial corrections and allocations from the European Commission totalling EUR 3 billion. Half of these are fines for the mismanagement of Community aid and for the other half of the recoverys, such as the wonderful packages of Hatzidakis, Moraite and the Short. Every year we had fines of EUR 300-350 million for pastures. And in 2015 we broke this tradition. This was the first time that the European Commission's audit did not result in a fine. Farmers know that we are trying to put order and put order in the chaos of their payments. In December we paid a total of 2 billion, 1.2 billion of the basic payment and the compensatory and 800 million euros for outstanding amounts from 2008 to 2004 and compensation. We are serving and will continue to serve the peculiarities and difficulties of rural areas. We are continuing to update the national register of farmers so that we can finally identify the principal farmer. Be careful, for in mobilizations the large majority are indeed people who see their income shrinking and their expenses increasing. However, there are also some who receive subsidisation of hundreds of thousands of euros and may also take the lead. That is why we want to make it clear that, for the main-professional farmers, we are going to make arrangements, we will proceed to tax benefits, we will protect them. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We will identify the agricultural income and taxation, based on the redefinition of the concept of agricultural enterprise and agricultural holdings. In the first quarter of 2016, we will have completed the process of establishing the farmer's bank card, which will be linked and which will have the aid of each farmer as a credit line. This week, the draft law on the new framework for cooperation is being tabled, after the well-known waste and bankruptcy fiasco in the operation of the cooperative movement, the cooperative area, with the result that even the PSEEGES are currently in a liquidation process. You know, some are provoking that we have said that we consider farmers to be tax-railers. I want to make that clear. There is indeed a gray zone in the production and marketing of agricultural products. That's something that the evidence shows. And this belt needs to be illuminated. However, this is not the case for farmers and, above all, for main-professional farmers, there is nothing to fear. On the contrary, they have to be afraid of middlemen and circuits, which undeniably ensure overprofit. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Finally, we are going to implement the rural development programme for the next five years, with the provision of investment expenditure of 6 billion and the main protagonist in this programme being the new farmer. But let me go back to the farmers' insurance and ask you to think about what the farmer would be gaining today from the policy of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, what would gain from what he is supposed to be at risk of losing with our own reform. Would the basic pension, which from 2002 onwards began to decrease on an annual basis by 4% and 2026 would disappear, would it be zero? You know, OGA's basic pension today is 158 euros. Did you know that? 2026 will be zero if there is no reform. In 2026 the basic pension will be zero. With our own reform, EUR 2026 or EUR 158 is replaced by the national pension of EUR 384. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But let us see - because I want to speak with examples, and I want to hear arguments today and I think I can hear examples and arguments as a counterpart - what a vast majority of farmers would receive, over four hundred thousand in a total of six hundred five thousand, currently in the third insurance category, which has started to count since 1998. We all know that in two years' time, those in the third category today will be in the fourth. The vast majority of farmers, then, in two years' time when they will start to pay contributions on the basis of our own reform, would - if we do not do the reform - EUR 1,065 a year for insurance contributions. We in the reform will charge them 1,238 euros a year, i.e. EUR 14,5 more a month. Indeed, it's a burden. I am not saying that the additional EUR 14.5, when we have so many charges, is not a burden. But take note of what they will have in return: they will receive almost twice as much pension as EUR 580 if we take into account an average farmer for twenty-five years. In short, the example of a farmer who is now fifty-seven years old and will be retired in 2026, in ten years from now, will give from 2018 EUR 14.5 above, but in 2026 he will receive a pension of EUR 580 and not EUR 200 if the reform is not done. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I ask you: do you care about the fact that an entire social category, the elderly farmers - with your logic - are coming out of social protection, coming out of insurance? Of course it is a burden, but it also results in this burden. However, let us also see the corrections - no objection - and listen to proposals, but not to misinform the world, not to make it feel like this is where Armageddon is supposedly coming. Armageddon came to our place, unfortunately, when for five years a wealth of 50 billion euros was lost with eleven continuous pension cuts. That was Armageddon at the place. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Mr. President, I'm closing. I may have abused time, but it was necessary to say a few things. I believe that we are being watched with great interest by a large part of the Greek people. In today's circumstances we know that a pension in a household is perhaps the sole source of income, not for the elderly, perhaps for the whole family, for many generations. The Greek society, you know, had a protection system, the nuclear family, which retained social dismantling. If these measures implemented here were implemented in Northern Europe, everything would have been dissolved. That is why we have set as our basic principle, as our main orientation in the proposal that we do not go to further reductions in pensions, that pensions should not be cut further, when we know that they are going for the unemployed son, for the unemployed grandson. The crisis of the social security system, a fundamental social pillar, is intensified by the conflict of generations in terms of the distribution of the wealth produced and creates a paradoxical situation: the solidarity of generations in the present generations is struggling with the solidarity of generations in the future. Only way to solve the paradox can there be no doubt that it is a return to growth and job creation. If that is not the case, whatever proposal we or you will be bringing back, we will be discussing the same in a few years' time. Back to development, but in conjunction with an integrated social security system, which takes account of these interdependencies that I have analysed before. We are therefore called today, ladies and gentlemen, we, who are not responsible for the things that you have been doing in your governments, are called upon to clean up your own laundry. We will, by changing structures, by imposing justice and parity. But we urge you, too, to assume your responsibilities. If you don't want to put your back on, at least tell us what you're suggesting. Don't deny dialogue. Since you do not want to take responsibility, you do not want to rub your hands with your own laundry, at least stop being detrimental to the place. Keep elementally a position of responsibility on a major issue of national and social responsibility, such as the sustainability of our insurance system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much. I hope that we will see the economy of the whole debate and of the secondary ones, that the substance will go hand in hand with the times. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty students and students, five teachers and ten parents from the 9th Municipal School of Alexandroupolis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would also like to inform the House of an exception to the procedure in the order of speakers. Before the next speaker, Mr Michaloliakos, I will give the floor to Mr Kammenos, because he has a debate with Mr Yalom, the Israeli Defence Minister, at 21.00 hours. I would beg, with the permission of this House. The floor is now given by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, the situation in the country is very worrying. Society is boiling, the economy is sinking, the institutions are being tested, and the country is in danger of changing to an endless camp of trapped refugees and immigrants. In the face of this reality, politicians, ladies and gentlemen, we must show the greatest responsibility, unite society, proceed with a serious plan, and nonetheless cause the citizens blind and pointless controversy. But, Prime Minister, I am sorry, you have chosen to do the whole thing backwards, because in a year you have turned hope into despair. I can't let it happen that two days ago you celebrated your first year of government. The result of your work is summarised in a proposal: you are the most harmful government in the history of post-Government Greece. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You led the country to the limits of the exit from the Eurozone. You signed a third memorandum. You closed the banks. You led the economy into recession.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u7	Please, quietly and in the Minutes do not make any speeches. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u8	You've increased unemployment. You have undermined the authority of the country abroad. And at this very juncture, what did you choose, Prime Minister? Organize a party figurine, which you converted into a propaganda recital, empathy and division. This is not an invitation to dialogue, it is a challenge in Civicism. But you know? One thing is certain. If the elections on 25 January had not taken place, things in the country would have been much better today. [[Noise in the Chamber]] All are aware of this, even those who recognize you. There are those, Prime Minister, some who recognize good intentions. Today they realize you have failed. And what you are charged primarily, Mr. Tsipras, is that you systematically fooled Greek women and Greeks. I listened with great interest to your analysis of the non-viability of the insurance system. I wonder when you were feeding your thirteenth pension, didn't you know that? Now you remembered them? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Or was the insurance system viable a year ago and with your own interventions not? When you were talking about increasing the minimum wage, about the parallel programme of Thessaloniki, about debt write-offs, about abolishing by a memorandum law? The list is endless and I stop here. You might want all this to be forgotten. But citizens do not forget them for a simple reason: they experience the cruel reality that your inability created. And, unfortunately, even today - not even on Sunday, of course, but today - nor an apology to speak to them honestly, Prime Minister. Instead of doing this, you chose on Sunday the personal attacks and the division of the Greeks. By August you had a convenient, divisive rhetoric. It was "the memorial-antimony". Now it's the Right - Left. You're turning one social group against the other. You poison society with class hatred. You take us far behind, Mr. Tsipras, at times of division, which have cost us so much. But, ladies and gentlemen, today's dilemma is different. And it's very clear. It is the choice between yesterday's populism, stagnation and the party state that you represent, and tomorrow's truth, the fair and necessary reforms that we represent and that will take the country out of the crisis! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Yes, reforms that can be difficult, socially responsible reforms, national reforms, those that give Greece prospects. These are the ones that will be chosen today, against stagnation, populism and collapse. That is the real dilemma, ladies and gentlemen. Are we going forward, or are we going back? In this context too, Prime Minister, the solution to the country's insurance problem should also be sought. But to talk about the solution... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Why such anger, ladies and gentlemen? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u9	Please, everybody be quiet. Come on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u10	Be a little quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u11	Let's all listen with care. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please! And not to mention vacations, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u12	In order to seek a solution to the insurance policy, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we need to speak the language of truth and make all the self-criticism that we must do. The truth is that in the last three decades of governments, parties and citizens we have not seen - perhaps we did not want to see - the problem that was coming. A problem in demographic terms, a problem in budgetary terms, which is linked to the increase in unemployment. The ageing population, the many early retirements, rising unemployment has led to overturning the relationship between workers and retired people. When the redistributive system started, that relationship was four to one today is at 1.3 to 1. Thus, unfortunately, it has been shaped with collective responsibilities, which we must recognise with courage, a distorted system, a system of unfairness, with exceptions and privileges. Exemptions and privileges that benefited the few and charged the many. A system that was created occasionally, reflecting the pressure force of various political groups, while also reflecting political purposes. A system which gave the wrong motive and messages and dismantled the citizens' insurance consciousness. This reality has been denied, until very recently, as a society to recognise and deal with. We hid her conveniently under the carpet. The circle of this silence, however, must now be broken. And I would like to use a phrase of Tasos Yannitsis: "To have a stable solution to the insurance system, a new social agreement is needed and this cannot be done without collective recognition of errors." We, Prime Minister, have recognised our own mistakes and our own omissions. As a new Chief, I'm committed not to repeating them. But do not pretend to have any responsibility, because you are the first to be across the street and finally strangle any attempt to rationalise the insurance system, you and the forces of populism that you are now expressing, because the syndicate logic is embedded in SYRIZA's DNA. It is worth recalling that the greatest demonstrations ever made in Syntagma Square were the demonstrations that took place to repudiate the Yannitzi plan. What then did the leadership of the coalition then, Mr. Tsipras? They were the first complainants. Under the pressure of the reactions, the postponers...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u13	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u14	I guess you're getting mad at what I'm saying. It's okay, you'll hear it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u15	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u16	...Get up and denouncers, unfortunately, have reached us this far. I will not rush to deny that then our party has not helped. But not to forget, however, important reforms which have taken place over the last thirty years in the insurance sector and carry our own seal. Siufa Law, 2084/1992, a law that gave twenty years of life to the insurance system. The first great unification of the funds, law Petroleum 3655/2008, from hundreds of thirty-three to thirteen funds. These were our achievements. But, yeah, it wasn't enough. And in 2010 it is time to face the monster we collectively devoured. They say the best time to fix your roof is when the sun shines. The sure thing is that in 2010 the sun did not shine for Greece. However, important reform efforts began at that time. They started by n. 3863 of Koutromani - Loverdus and in 2012 by our own governments began - under the leadership of Mr Brutsi, who you rushed with such great comfort to depreciate - the effort to regain the financial control of the system's inputs and outputs through a very systematic and methodical work. Digitalised systems, HELIOS programmes, ARIADNE, ATTLAS, ERGANI, electronic prescription, creation of insurance debt collection centres, establishment of a new Auxiliary Insurance Fund. We had a clear objective, the reintroduction of the insurance system to its fundamental principles, those of recompense, justice and solidarity. These initiatives have made a great deal of progress. Distortions were encountered, waste was wasted, retired limits rationalized, "monkey" pension control were dealt with in excess and illegal distribution of disability pensions, cost rationalized in medicaments and care. What was the result of these interventions, Mr. Tsipras? In the third Memorandum, which you negotiated, it is explicitly stated: ‘The pension reforms of 2010 and 2012, if fully implemented, will significantly improve the long-term sustainability of the overall pension system’. This is what you agreed on in the third memorandum, which you signed. We are now coming to the heart of the matter. At the end of 2014, ladies and gentlemen, there was no need to reduce pensions and this was never raised by the troika, for a new reduction in pensions. There was no budgetary requirement, except for the zero deficit clause on supplementary pensions and early retirement. That's the truth. I know it's bothering you. In fact, the previous government had succeeded in completing the first credible proportionate study, a study conducted under the auspices of ECOFIN, which confirmed that at that time the insurance system, with the assumptions that had been made, fulfilled the viability conditions, without any further unfair charges until 2060. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm filing it in the Minutes. It's worth reading, Prime Minister, if you don't know her. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above study, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's the truth. Right there we were before you took over and then you came. [[Noise in the Chamber]] The additional measures of EUR 1.8 billion...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u17	After you voted for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u18	We'll come to that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u19	Don't read a speech. Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u20	The additional measures of EUR 1.8 billion from insurance interventions were created by your own management incapacity. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In 2016 citizens pay the account of your incompetence. Now it is clear now that you are part of the problem, you are not part of the solution. You have unfortunately exhausted all efforts to reform the insurance system, Mr Tsipras. You have eliminated citizens' sacrifices. Not only did you not move forward, but you took us back at least two years. That's why society is turning your back and you're already collecting the outrage and disdain from all the productive social groups, which are erupting against you, whether they wear ties or not, because they feel mocking, they feel mocking, they see injustice. You wondered why farmers don't want to talk to you. Should you go to the tractors and talk to them, as you were going then, and feed them what you were saying? Perhaps this space is more familiar. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The reality is that you are, unfortunately, shrinking in the consciousness of the people and each day shrinking more and more every prospect, every hope of the Greek for the improvement of his life. With your choices you draw and pull Greece back. Now you are bringing us your proposal on insurance and presenting it as a major institutional reform. But your proposal, Mr Tsipras, is nothing more than a distorting and much worse version of the existing version. 3863, which simply reduces replacement rates, excessively increases contributions and leads to direct major pension reductions for young pensioners. That's the reality. The most dangerous thing, however, in your plan, Mr Tsipras, is that it is investing in the fundamental partitioning of society. At a time and on an issue that we need is the greatest possible consensus, you are putting everyone in a war against everyone on the pretext of the social state and always on the protection of the weak. Your plan, as you presented it, has six extremely painful features. It leads to a confrontation of generations, opens up war in Greece, distorts the incentives for work, actually turns the insurance system into a pro-innovation, worsens the problem, and of course it is rough and uncollected, and ultimately does not give a solution to the problem. It's a fragmentary patch to escape from your responsibilities. So let's go look at all this in detail. Your plan, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Katrugale, catalyses the solidarity of the generations. You are creating two speed pensioners. You are causing a huge tension between old and new future pensioners. Your plan is essentially declaring a war of generations. We will be against this - and with great intensity - because you are perhaps making the worst mistake. To be good today, you sacrifice the future of the next generations. Secondly, your plan fights productive Greece. The linking of the insurance contributions by the professions, doctors, engineers, lawyers and farmers with the taxable income to the extent described in the plan you made public is equivalent to social and economic extermination. It incorporates an idealism, incorporates a class conception of a government which attacks anyone who is trying and acting successfully in the private sector. The only thing to do is to increase tax evasion and undeclared work. I wonder, Prime Minister, if the recent report - today published - of the Parliament's Budget Office, which says quite clearly and I read: 'The draft law does not actually lead to the returnability of contributions - benefits and therefore replaces the incentives for work and the method of calculating the government's pensions with the escalating rates, creates an incentive to further increase the black labour of tax evasion and tax evasion'. That's what the House's Budget Office says. We don't. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We, Mr Tsipras, have, with great effort, reduced employers' contributions by five percentage points in total. We have chosen a policy that is currently followed by socialist France, which is drastically reducing insurance contributions in order to increase employment and reduce the rate of unemployment. This is done by a country which has unemployment of two and a half times as much as ours. I know, Mr. Tsipras, that you have a dream. You want to turn Greece into a country of retired and civil servants and Greek entrepreneurship into a state-controlled case. This is your plan for Greece and it is absolutely obvious. We will not allow it, because the New Democracy will continue the forces of creation, healthy entrepreneurship and production. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Third major disadvantage: Your plan distorts the return on the insurance system. This is how you give the charismatic shot at what is left of the citizens' insurance consciousness. With the replacement factors, which you enter, what are you doing on the substance? You are surviving the minor effort, punishing the work and every attempt to create it. Your plan on substance does not give incentives to stay at work. The additional years, from one point to the next, do not lead to a higher pension. And that's not only unprecedented, Prime Minister, it's wrong. It undermines every concept of an insurance conscience. Fourthly, the plan, which you have presented, transforms the insurance system essentially into an innovative system. Not only do you separate social security from welfare, but you turn the insurance into an insurance scheme, at the same time abolishing the predictive structure of the minimum guaranteed income. With your logic, an unemployed mother forty years will no longer be able to rely on the minimum guaranteed income. We have worked with a great deal on a national social inclusion strategy aimed at tackling extreme poverty and social exclusion and a minimum guaranteed income. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the President of the New Democracy is ringing.]] I'll ask for another ten minutes, Mr. President. Unfortunately, the minimum guaranteed income, which you should know is, throughout Europe, the most effective and targeted tool to tackle extreme poverty, is also abandoned in its fate. Fifth problem: Your plan passes the problem for the future. Really, Prime Minister, what will happen to the main pensions on 1-1-2019? You know very well that personal difference, as described in the bill, carries the problem for three years later. You are putting unresolved problems into the future, and this is politically irresponsible. You're probably doing it because you know you won't be government in 2019 to manage the problem. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, your plan is unvalued. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] A little quiet, ladies and gentlemen. And today there is still no financial documentation of your proposals. Everything's in the air.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u21	Tell us yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u22	Wait. I still have time. Don't be in a hurry. Your refusal and inability to cost the project is certainly slowing down the negotiation, which you claim and we all want it to be completed as soon as possible. You are causing enormous tensions in society, without even knowing what the real economic benefit you are proposing is. And that is the definition of absolute carelessness. You are asking today - the truth is in much softer tone than the speech you made two days ago - from the Opposition an alternative proposal. We could easily answer you that we did not create the problem of EUR 1.8 billion. You did it, you solve it. But we won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u23	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u24	Prime Minister, I listened with great interest to you talking about the overall restructuring of insurance, but the reality is different. I know your problem is the 1.8 billion who were asked for by the troika and which were not asked for by us. That's your problem and that's why you're legislating today. So don't hide the truth. So let us start by talking about the details of the basic characteristics of an insurance system. A fair system, therefore, Mr Tsipras, should obviously ensure the long-term viability of the system, be compatible with the specific macro-economic environment to which it applies, but not penalise those who have consistently fulfilled their insurance obligations, instigated insurance and encouraged labour, separating social security from welfare and contributing to strengthening solidarity between generations. This is a worthwhile framework, in which I hope we can agree. So the architecture of n. 3863 which is the basis on which you too build is a proper architecture. Let me remind you that n. 3863 has established for all a national pension and the net analogous part of the pension corresponding to the contributions of each worker is added. Why are you presenting this to us as your reform? It exists in the existing legal framework. The law, of course, defines - and rightly so - as the basis for calculating all working life. That's all there was, Mr. Tsipras. You don't know them? You don't enter them. This is the reform, which was passed by the previous governments, on which we too were building.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u25	That's right. Come on, you're kidding us now! That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u26	Don't talk to us here about big reforms in insurance. But one more thing. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You know, it's a little difficult and complex and you might not be well informed. It's okay, listen. You'll find out something. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, Mr Tsipras, we had agreed to the creation of three funds: wagers, farmers and self-employed freelance professionals, who respect and recognize their specific characteristics. We still insist on this proposal and consider that one fund is wrong and will cause a huge management hub. So this is the central framework, which we need to safeguard and which we need to improve. So, in our view, what should you do, Mr Tsipras and Mr Katrugale?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u27	Please be quiet. Please. Everyone listens very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u28	So use all the tools at your disposal to combat undeclared work, which you do not do at the moment. Use information from the ELIOS system to save resources from illegally paid pensions and family allowances. You know well that there is still a problem in this field. It has not been fully dealt with. Apply normally the zero deficit clause for supplementary pensions. Go ahead and offset the contributions due to the OGA, for the last year alone, with agricultural subsidies. And, if necessary, streamline the state grant given by the budget to the "kind" funds. These are concrete proposals, Mr Tsipras. Let's talk about them. And, of course, you could also shorten the transitional provisions of the n. 3863, but of course you should also give real incentive to the development of the third pillar, to private insurance, a concept which, obviously, creates absolute allergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u29	Please! I won't say it many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u30	Unfortunately, however, for you and unfortunately for the country, these measures are not enough to close the EUR 1.8 billion hole. Additional resources must be sought from targeted expenditure cuts. And I am glad that you, too, recognised in your speech today that there is indeed the possibility of equivalent measures which could contribute to covering this gap, without further intervention in the insurance sector. The problem is that I have not heard any such equivalent measures from you, Mr Tsipras. So I'm going to propose some of you now. But one thing is certain. Society will no longer tighten the belt to fund with its flaw the enlargement of the party state of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u31	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u32	I therefore call on you, Mr Tsipras, in an express dialogue which leads to a commitment to cancel the planned wage increases of the public and to drastically limit party appointments. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Just a month ago, you made increases of 150 million to civil servants and did not even have an evaluation system in place to give rise, at least, to those who deserve it. But you give them horizontally and, of course, give them to those who serve at the party offices and at the ministerial offices! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I invite you to take these increases back. Of course you know well that there are other distortions. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr President, please protect yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u33	Please be quiet from all the wings. There are specific things Mr. Mitsotakis says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u34	So you know that there are still other distortions in the wage bill for civil servants, from which you can save resources. So the question, Prime Minister, is simple: Do you tolerate this dialogue, which would be for the benefit of society, or are you afraid of reactions from partners, relatives and friends you want to settle for? I know exactly what you're going to tell me. I know that well. You will tell me 'but you have done the same'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u35	Now why are you interrupting, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u36	But this simulation is nothing but the tombstone of the moral advantage of the Left. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You know, Mr. Tsipras, sometimes I wonder how the unreasonable fighters of the left of the previous generations would feel in front of this cynical illusion that grandchildren would invoke the struggles of grandparents for a poster position in the public eye. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There are, therefore, specific proposals as you have seen. Here we are, if you wish, to discuss them. However, of course, I would also agree with you, and with your last abstention, that the country's insurance problem will never be solved substantially if the economy does not return to a growth path if employment does not increase and if the worker-insurance relationship is not corrected. And that's exactly where you've done so much damage in so little time. What have you done, Mr. Tsipras, in 2015 and 2016? May I remind you that we will have reduced GDP by 7.3%, i.e. about EUR 13 billion in relation to the previous forecasts? The forecasts for 2015 and 2016 were too specific, were for growth of 3% and 3%. That, you know, isn't a theoretical number. This loss of GDP translates - and this with the most conservative estimates - about two thousand less positions than the original forecasts of the mid-term programme 2015-2018. That is all you are causing a huge loss of insurance contributions. We value her at about 900 million only for 2016. And here's the amazing thing. What the government is asking, in order to close the budgetary gap that she created by cutting pensions and increasing contributions, is losing them from the contributions she should have earned if you had managed to reduce unemployment, as we would have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u37	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u38	You have to understand that for every investment you are firing out, for example, Mr Skourletis, you are not only depriving someone who is unemployed of the prospect of employment, you are also deprived of resources from the insurance system. The conclusion is therefore clear. If you really had, Mr Tsipras, taken care of the sacrifices of the Greek citizens, instead of throwing them into the Bar of the tough negotiation, and if you hadn't derailed the economy with your tragic negotiation of the first seven months of 2015, we wouldn't have had to discuss additional measures today. The financial derailment of 2015 leads to the cuts that you are currently introducing. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We could go into more detail, but I won't, because I've already abused time and there's always a second language. But, Mr Tsipras, you do not want to enter this detailed debate. You don't like numbers. You see, you only care about people. But the numbers say the reality and you can't stand the numbers, because you can't stand the truth. You are under collapse and you have to lure Greece into a dead end for the second time. I urge you today to abandon your plan, even at the last minute by someone else, which will be governed by the principles I have set out. And I hope that you will adopt a further creative concept of the country's economy with one year's delay. One thing is certain. We don't have time to lose. You know that well. And we cannot live again, as a country, in the days of the summer of 2015. Greece cannot afford a new adventure. And that is why I ask you, Mr Tsipras, finally to reconcile yourself with the reality that you have created. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen. On the occasion of my first intervention in the House as Chief of Officerial Response, I would like to address all Greek women and all Greeks, regardless of what they voted for in the elections, regardless of what they voted for in the referendum. We can get out of the crisis. Other countries did it. Our Cypriot brothers, who leave the memorial in March 2016, succeed. We can see in the world the positive, the creative side of our homeland. But it is a fair, realistic, social agreement on the responsibility and solidarity of all the social groups, of all generations. Yeah, put all of us in the back, share the burdens fair and we'll make it. All this, however, can only be done with a plan, in truth and not with false promises and not with great words. I ask you to always have this simple requirement from me. And know that as long as I'm involved in the public dialogue, I'll keep it completely, speaking the language of truth, and above all doing the work of truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. The President of the Group of Independent Greeks and Minister for National Defence Mr Panagiotis Kammenos has the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I would particularly like to thank Mrs and Mr Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups for this facility in view of the visit by the Israeli Defence Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on insurance is a debate on which we should all be telling the truth here. And the truth really starts with numbers. The real situation of the insurance system is the situation in which it has been in recent years. Should we see what the reasons were, but also what do we propose for tomorrow? I'll do it in the few minutes that time gives me, starting with the establishment of the Greek insurance system. Perhaps it is the only insurance system in Europe, which was set up without any proportionate study. There has never been a study of proportionality of Greece's insurance system. From 1950 to today because of the contaminated and fragmentary arrangements which have not fought the root of evil, we are in this situation. The passive management of the reserves at their deposit with the Bank of Greece at a rate determined by the State and at the same time their interest-free lending to the State, thus the lack of liquidity of the funds, has led to inflationary lending. And what is the example of this wrong attitude and management? It is the example of the Armed Forces funds. Why don't we talk about the Armed Forces insurance today, despite the fact that there are early pensions there, even though there are dead in a time of peace, even though there are people leaving the army much younger than in the public and private sectors? It is precisely because there was proper management, management, which allowed the Armed Forces' funds to have real estate of 35 billion today. I hope that you will not hurt them, and when you say about civil servants, you will also speak of the commissioners, Mr President of the Vice-President. Let's just leave out...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u41	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u42	Because you have spoken of civil servants, I hope you do not mean the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, to exclude them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u43	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u44	But they didn't give rises to the soldiers!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u45	So here I would like to remind you that this active management of the reserves has had the logic of gambling. In fact, I expected today to hear the Chief of Staff Responsibility, a new Chief, to whom I wish good success after his election, defending the work of the New Democracy. Instead, his speech had a scent of Shiite. He told us about Mr. Yannissi. I want to remind you that the time of Janitsi was the time when the President of the New Democracy was the late Miltiadis Everett.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u46	You're in trouble!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u47	And I want to remind you that this side and this wing...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u48	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u49	You're a little messed up, Karamanlis was. You were a MP and you don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u50	I would like to remind you that we fought against the PASOK, Yannitsi, because the fund reserves were then played on the stock exchange and some administrations "payed" by selling the funds that bought the previous one. After co-operation with PASOK, did you forget about it? Have we forgotten how these holes were created by gambling in the stock market? Have we forgotten about the AACC trial? Have we forgotten about the committees of inquiry that New Democracy was asking for at that time? I'm afraid you've forgotten about them, but you mustn't forget that at that time the National Commander was the late Karatzas, who you were his agent at the time. Do you remember what happened with the shares of the National and the Treasury? Do we remember the market cycles of NAOKs and Clothes, privileged ones and agglomerations? Do you remember the billions lost by the funds? I remind you now. And I would also remind you that after the great gambling and destruction of Simitis and Yannitsis and all the other PASOK governments in the fund reserves, a second era came for the reduction of PSI. Who did the PSI? You, now as PASOK partner. How much did they lose from the insurance funds? The reduction of the PSI is 13 billion and the insurance contributions are reduced by 3.9% in June 2014. This has led to the present tragic situation. There are also insurance funds, which then did not consent to making their reserves in the Bank of Greece and illegally the Governor of the Bank of Greece, while he could have made them lump sums from the State and he knew, as a member of the European Central Bank, that they would be "drigging", he illegally consented to the "cut" of the insurance funds. So the universities also got tired, so the savings of those who trusted the Greek bonds were actually cut off. So they've been cut off and the hospitals. This is how Greece's whole, on your own responsibility. Let's go down. You did eleven with twelve horizontal pension cuts. Mid-range 41% reduction. Today, as the Prime Minister said, IKA's cash deficit is 1 billion. The EUPM is half a billion. And because we are talking about numbers, more than EUR 15 billion is red insurance contributions to these funds. In view of something else, the huge demographic problem, we must say that we have 1,3 children on average, while we need 2,1 children. In 2050 one out of two citizens will be over sixty-five years old. Unemployment from 13%, which was in 2009, delivered by the government, amounted to 25.5% officially. The reduction in wages is 20%. The reduction of insured persons is six hundred thousand insured and three hundred thousand left abroad, young children who do not pay for the Greek insurance funds. And part-time work since 11.5%, which was in 2009, now reaches 22.5%. Immediate intervention in insurance is therefore imperative. And here, ladies and gentlemen, speaking of demographics, what is needed is to motivate multitude families, tritecuses, to those families who have children in the crisis. To protect, as the Constitution imposes, these families, who in difficult economic conditions make large families. It is a major, critical and sensitive social problem, not solved as a gordian link but with successive approaches. We recognize, firstly, the intentions and successive efforts of the previous governments, but which were superficial and fruitless. At the same time, however, we are calling for criminal responsibilities to be brought to bear on those who have dismantled the insurance funds to date. They can't stay unpunished. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Today, therefore, the government in the existing system of insurance, where fragmentation remains, charges them the maintenance of the insurers in their statutory independence, the maintenance of the insurers in their economic self-sufficiency, the maintenance of age differentiation and, finally, the bomb of the insurance system has created a hole, which is about five times the GDP of the country up to 2050. For proof, I will table two proportionate tables, which, with the current law, prove to be in place today. He's at your disposal. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above tables, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The new insurance approach is therefore trying to cure it. And because I heard the Chief of Officer's Responsibility say that in 2014, when Mr Samaras was leaving the government, the troika's demands were only two, I asked my colleague, the MP, to bring me a forgotten e-mail. Do you remember the e-mail Hardouvel? I'll testify because you've forgotten about it. See in e-mail Hardouvelis what it refers to for insurance funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u51	Please...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u52	First of all, it talks about the restructuring of the tax administration, which has not been completed. It speaks of a requirement of further independence from the General Secretariat. On the issue of insurance, the troika asks that Greek side provide parametric changes, i.e. changes in age limits. Repair rates: We demand insurance among other things...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u53	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u54	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u55	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u56	"KATHMERINI" is. Mr. Alafuzos, it's yours! The one who overthrowed your dad and now he's taken it off! So take it, the e-mail Hardouvelis, to see exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u57	Please don't make me refer to names. Please don't interrupt. Please do not note that the holidays are not recorded by the stenographers. I have said that since the beginning of today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u58	Don't worry. Come on, you'll see it later. You'll take it with you. Don't worry about it. From now on, then, the state must guarantee pensions, national pensions and proportional pensions and not only be concerned about the lack of the funds' budgets. The big difference with the n. 3863, referred to earlier, is precisely that: L.3863 was concerned only with the deficit of the funds and not with the guarantee of pensions, the national pension and the proportional pension, which ensures the bill that that government bears. We are introducing the national pension at EUR 384, which will be granted after 15 years of work and added to it in proportion to the extra years of insurance and the amount of contributions. The growth clause depends on positive GDP change and 50% on price change. The funds shall be consolidated. Human resources are being released for controls. At this point there are issues that need to be discussed. We believe that all the Security College funds should enter the National Defence and dismiss the uniforms from the other system. Secondly, there are funds that must remain autonomous, such as NAT. The first captain cannot give 2,500 euros right now to the fund and have a pension of 1,500 euros. Old pensions after redefinition...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u59	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u60	Pick up the bridesmaids, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u61	Please listen carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u62	Old pensions after their redefinition shall not be affected until at least 2018 due to a scalable rate of replacement that protects low pensions. The NCA after 2019 shall be replaced by the overtime allowance for those who do not complete 15 years of insurance. The agreed savings of EUR 1.8 billion pension expenditure for 2016 will be covered by an increase of 1% of the employers' contributions and possibly by 0.5% of the employees' contributions. So here we are talking about a proposal that ensures the sustainable insurance system. Because the Independent Greeks know that the simulation of free professionals and farmers with employees creates unbearable contributions for them, we propose that the Minister should consider whether there can be a special contribution to the insurance rate of 1% to 1.5% on bank transactions, irrespective of the amount, which will be collected and recorded as a social resource by the banks to the Bank of Greece under the supervision of the Bank of Greece. This social resource is estimated, if it is 1%, from 700 million to 1 billion a year, which will reduce the contributions of free professionals and farmers. As far as the issue of farmers is concerned, we need to clarify some things. Of course, real farmers must be able to obtain tax relief - we also say duty-free oil - in order to produce it. We cannot, however, let non-professional farmers, gynaecologists - cotton producers, shop owners and peaches producers, incomeists and, at the same time, farmers, who have developed from the customer system in recent years, have the privileges of farmers, depriving the farmers of what they are entitled to. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We therefore need a complete separation, which is now being carried out with the register of farmers. The figs and boats! We are talking about our agricultural production. If someone goes by car to see where they produce the sours, especially in the Peloponnese, while you can't get Greek lemon to the manavia - they bring you Argentine, Israel and so on. - She'll see our lemons are on the trees and nobody's picking them up. Why isn't anyone picking up? Because they don't belong to the real farmers. Because the real farmer will cut it off and sell it on the market with 1,5 euros and make money to live his family, while the other one, who has other incomes and wins the farmer's tax rate, sits at the café and takes 0.4% of the subsidy and lets the lemon rot in the tree. End of it. This has to end here. We're totally in agreement. Let the worker, a private farmer, be taxed by the private employee. Let the business farmer tax the businessman. The farmer, however, has tax exemption and duty-free oil so that he can produce it. And to cut subsidies from those who, in the second place, have agricultural employment and do not engage in and secure subsidies with the inconsistency of real farmers. This is essentially the regulation that we have to do with this new bill. We propose that there should be social justice, with regard to the acquisition of the fictitious years of insurance, and that the successive insurance measure should be applied on the basis of the insurance equivalent and not on the basis of gifts. We are proposing within the EPC the establishment of a Statistical Monitoring Directorate for the Insurance System, in order to study the various aspects affecting insurance, as well as the income and income capacity of citizens, and to recommend appropriate structural movements. Here, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must also point out another issue: that of black labour, especially the one from foreigners. It is true that many are the ones who are suffering, because they are not really put by employers. However, there are others who benefit from this black labour with the possibility of exporting this money abroad. If we go to 'WESTERN UNION' in Omonia one night, we will see tails from outside, sending money abroad. People with their livelihood to send them. However, whoever sends money to the outside who works - and is entitled to send it, if he works here - must also have the certificate that the reservation has been paid for the insurance funds and the tax on this money, which he sends abroad. It is not possible every night to leave hundreds of thousands of euros, to control the worker every day in Greece or the microprofessional about whether he has put the worker in the IKA and leave this big capital abroad without any taxation. Finally, we consider the National Council of the Insurance System to be a transitional solution. There must be a constitutional review, in which we will propose independent central insurer for the supervision of changes in inputs and outflows of the insurance system, directly linked to the 'IDS', 'TAXIS', 'ARIDNI', the capital market, ELSTAT, the General Accounting Office of the State, in order to save the insurance of future generations. I would like to propose to all the political leaders, ladies and gentlemen, the information we all know. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister of National Defence and President of the Independent Greeks Mr. Panos Kammenos is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I read just one example to see what the truth is: in fact, there are free professional honesty - I say to you that it is the majority - who pay their taxes and their reservations. But it cannot continue at the moment the phenomenon of the data of the Ministry of Finance, which says this: the total of ninety-four thousand cents of engineers, lawyers, doctors and economists accounts for 70% of the income of 1,946 euros. It can't be done! It can't be done! There must be a way of controlling incomes. Let us take measures to monitor the performances of justice, to control each doctor's income, with heavy penalties if you take him out of evidence. We can't open the UBS list and have doctors with five million deposits in Switzerland. This is gonna end. It can't be done. It is at the expense of all of us, and that concerns all parties. So, ladies and gentlemen, all the parties, all the political leaders, because the insurance is what is the future for our children and grandchildren, to leave our political controversy, to sit on the table of the President of the Republic and to sit down, to close in, to table our proposals with real will to find a common position. We, as Independent Greeks, put forward our proposals in order to know all parties, as we have done with the government, and we believe that at least what the Greek people expect from us, from the entire House of Greeks, is in this insurance, that there is a consensus and that we can safely build the future of the generations that come. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above proposals, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much Mr. Kammenos. I would ask the President of the People's League Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, to speak for twenty minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of his speech the Prime Minister told us that this important national and social issue, such as insurance, has been raised by all parties. He's lying. Mr Katrugalos, the Minister responsible, did not inform the Golden Dawn, and I am sure it was not his personal but governmental choice. Whatever you do, however, Greek nationalists are not ghosts. It's also inside the House, it's on the streets, the squares, the villages and the towns. Golden Dawn is here, whether you want it or not. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We were voted almost four hundred thousand people. They don't pay premiums, do you think? Aren't they workers? They don't have any pensions? What are you going to do with these four hundred thousand? Are you going to wipe them out? Why, then, this unilateral discrimination by you, where are you against discrimination? It seems that only one distinction remains between you, the distinction against those who dare in these unfortunate times, who want homelanders to die, to remain nationalists. I would also like to ask another question. I was asked by a citizen, a friend of mine what time the vote was taking today, and I told him that there was no vote. How did the inspiration start for this debate here? From a statement, first of all, from the President of Officer Mitsotakis, who said that "I will not discuss insurance. I shall table my own proposal on insurance." And, indeed, the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, raised the glove and caused today's debate, which, of course, as Mr Mitsotakis said, is being done in the air, because there is no costly programme either on the one hand or on the other. And so the hard duel, which had been announced, has now taken the form of a "western – spaghetti", Alexis against Kyriaku. But the Greek people are tired of all these unsolicited gladiators. After all, to be honest, the insurance regulation, the measures for farmers, these burdensome measures, all these matters were raised on 14 August 2015. And I am surprised to hear Mr Mitsotakis from the New Democracy accuse the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, of saying to him: 'You have voted for a memorandum'. Did Tsipras vote for the memorandum by himself? We were here in this Chamber. The New Democracy and the PASOK and the River voted. In fact, it was typical of the phrase: 'Get an agreement and your own account the measures'. Because there are some reports lately that a national betrayal has been carried out, because there have been thoughts about a second currency, at last let this patriotism of the euro stop. We do not owe any respect to this flag of yellow stars in this Europe, which today leaves us, which has caught almost a million illegal immigrants and refugees within the Greek territory, and the European countries, as you know, are closing their borders. Is the insurance issue finally the problem or is it part of a more general problem? Is it a part of the insurance problem called the Memorandum? Because the Prime Minister said that Armageddon came five years ago - these were his characteristic words - meaning the coming of the first memorandum, I have to ask: What did he do to stop Armageddon? Nothing. What did he do? Memorandum, too. What about the famous debt complaint? As long as there is this debt as an elbow in the neck of the Greek people, it is not possible to solve either the insurance problem or the economic problem of the country, nor to solve any development. The main issue of the day is that of farmers, who have already been in this Chamber since the summer - we have said that in the House - the memorandum and so-called insurance reform are going to be subjected hard. Indeed, the President of the Independent Greeks, Mr Kammenos, said earlier that he wanted duty-free oil for farmers. Are you sure that the insurance bill will be passed by your government? Because here we heard quite different things from what was heard in August 2015 and what the Prime Minister himself heard. The farmers, therefore, from where they paid the kilogram of oil about 66 euros, will come in 2016 to pay more than 300 euros per kilogram of oil. And this is the case at the same time that, throughout Europe, most farmers do not pay a tax on oil and, in fact, at a time - it is particularly important to stress this - that the price of oil has collapsed downwards and reached the $30 per barrel. The Prime Minister also spoke about the pillaging of the reserves by previous governments in the last four decades, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK. That's right, his complaint. Is that enough? Of course, it is not enough because the workers who will receive hunger pensions do not need to be told that their sweat is being plundered. They want those who were presidents of the insurance funds, those who were the ministers, who were the presidents of the insurance funds, finally to speak. You're still right about a wall. A law on the liability of Ministers. You're a year government. Colonels told you that it could by a qualified majority abolish this law and - why not? - since supreme law is the salvation of the country and the law of the people, even has adverse retrospective power. Why not? And so they should account for those who plundered the sweat of the Greek people. The government claims that there will be no reduction in pensions. It is characteristic that today, which is the case here, no bills have been tabled for the vote. It is a general and vague debate, because discussions with the Quadrant, the former troika, are still going on. And it is well known - it has leaked - that Moscovisi and Diaselblum, for their part, require a horizontal reduction in pensions. You're asking for a proposal. What do you want? Shall we make a proposal like Mr Samaras's "Zapino 1, 2, 3" and go by by saying? Or perhaps a proposal like the proposal of your Government, the proposal of Thessaloniki, that the minimum wage would be at EUR 751.Huh? Proposals, proposals, proposals! These are words of no substance and no meaning. The people are asking for justice, for the punishment of the guilty for what is happening on the insurance system. And finally, if the Greek people are to starve, let's lead to the rocks! The Greek people chose this with the referendum on 5 July, which you did not respect. As far as farmers are concerned, it is very important to say and stress that the regeneration and economic development of this country passes to the primary sector. The fact that the farmer has had tax protection for so many years has been quite reasonable because he is the man he produces, the man he exports, which reduces imports. It is a double profit for the national economy to produce the farmer. The farmer is the soul of the nation. And because Mr. Mitsotakis challenged the Prime Minister and asked him why he didn't go to the roadblocks where the tractors are, could someone also ask Mr. Mitsotakis why he doesn't go to the roadblocks where the tractors are? It is not because they both voted the same in the prerequisites in August 2015, when they said "yes to your agreement, the measures!" So now, after voting on the SYRIZA memorandum, they come to vote against the measures. It is a wicked, political tactic, aimed at unwritten votes and nothing more than that. The Prime Minister also spoke earlier about what used to be the case with the rural world and about the great scandal that was the cooperative movement. I would like to ask: All those who were in the cooperative movement, where are they today? Is he in SYRIZA? Was there the great mass of PASOK fans who then went to SYRIZA? Your case, then, is on the move!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u65	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u66	As far as the mobilisation of farmers is concerned, it is characteristic that in my home country, in Skala Laconia, farmers have excluded the national road and have excluded a specific food chain store, the LIDL, with this attitude, from revealing the great fraud that is taking place at the expense of the Greek people. And within this Chamber I have denounced the food cartel there. You've been running a whole year and you've done nothing! All large food chains have higher prices than those in supermarkets in Germany, Belgium and the other European countries! At the same time, these companies have over-profit, while their employees are working in conditions of real slavery. * You want to literally exterminate with this insurance bill what is healthy and productive exists in this place. It is not just farmers. Your legislation is characteristic if it is finally tabled as it has been published as a draft, concerning lawyers, where it is intended for a lawyer who has an annual revenue of 5,000 euros - that is, starving in substance, earns about 400 euros a month - to pay premiums of 2,823 euros. The lawyer with an income of 15,000 euros will pay 5,887 euros. Any lawyer who is successful and has the excellence, who, according to some in your movement, is a written inspiration, will pay almost 82% of his income, as he will pay 26% income tax, 23% VAT and 75% tax advance. An advance payment of tax, of course, will also be paid by farmers, when a farmer cannot know next year what production will be if a storm comes if a weather is bad, which will destroy the crop. We must, however, - you, your government imposes this on you - pay the tax in advance. All these years we've lived a lot. We have had three recapitalisations in the banks, where the Greek people paid about EUR 40 billion, of which they have left today, with the manipulation of shares, only EUR 800 million. You are already discussing that we may go through a fourth recapitalisation of banks. This was paid by the Greek people. No one's ever returned them to the Greek people. They became paper and comafe in the "princes of capitalism", as are the stock exchanges, as you believed many of you who govern today and Marxism supports. For the banks, money was found to guarantee the people's deposits. Where has the people guaranteed their statements, when we have almost six months of capital control and the Greek citizen has some money in the bank and can't get it? In essence, you have committed the economies of the average Greek citizen. So, after recapitalisation of the banks, no recapitalisation can be carried out for the insurance funds, which were subject to two strong hits, one with the Stock Exchange, when some gambled their reserves and were on the days of Mr. Simitis and Mr. Janitsis? Because, according to commonly said, love and cough are not hidden and it seems that the neoliberal New Democracy along with the modernist "Signant" PASOK somewhere has found them and are moving along. So we need to see this first blow at the Stock Exchange. Not many years have passed, only fifteen years have passed. We should raise this issue, see who is responsible. Of course, we had the famous PSI, where those who had state bonds suddenly found themselves on the street.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u67	Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u68	I am referring not only to microbiologists who had made a life-long economy a government bond that was lost, but to talk about the reserves of the insurance funds which, without questioning the workers, had become government bonds. These have been 'dried'. At the same time as an Englishman - in introductory terms - 'investor', a'small' of the international financial system, has denied the bond haircut, what is the Greek state doing? He pays him the state bond in full. And I ask: did the Greek workers, when they became the PSI and haired their face sweat, haird their reserves, asked them? Finally, a red line! You were talking about red lines. We don't see a red line. All we see are constant memoirs and getting to the point of paying the oil at the same price, according to the plans you have, the owner of Mercedes 600 with the tractor owner going to orchestrate his estate. This means that there is no duty-free oil for workers. As far as the age limit is concerned, you should take into account something that the extension of age limits will bring young people even greater unemployment. It is characteristic that the Minister of your Government, Mr Kotzias, stated in an interview in a German newspaper. He said that the leak about three hundred thousand Greek scientists cost the Greek nation 14 billion if we calculated what their study meant within that state. You will therefore bring greater unemployment to young people, which will lead to migration. I would like to conclude by saying that the Social Insurance Foundation, the establishment of the eighth, Sunday's holiday, the fortnight's leave, the ban on working for children under the age of 16, has done so by a fascist, as you call it, by John Metaxas. He first built the social state. And another fascist, some years later, gave the farmers the debts you want to make even bigger. You are as dangerous as New Democracy and PASOK. You continue the same policy. Go away. The country can't stand the memorandum anymore. Greece is dying. Let the Greeks finally wake up! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. I would ask the President of the Group of the European Democratic Alliance to come to Step by. Mrs. Birthday, you have the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Conscious of time, like everyone. Mr. Tsipras, today you've overcome yourself with steadfast courage. I understand your panic in front of the growing outcry of the Greek people for the deadlocks that your policy creates. But this panic finally pushes you into arrogantness. Everyone can observe that from the arrogance of authority you have passed into the arrogance of weakness, which is why no one believes you anymore. Honestly, I'm sorry about today's picture. It's all the time that you set up to celebrate the year of governance. Now, what exactly did you celebrate, only you know it! I waited with good faith, a year later, that you would find the courage and bravery, to proceed to a harsh self-criticism, to seek the understanding. In fact, instead, we've heard all these days again lies, divisive dilemmas, again polarization. For everything, but for everything, it's always the others, the opposition, the journalists, the intertwined ones that you never name. We understand, Mr. Tsipras. Looking for enemies, it's good to hold. It is clear that you cannot exist without enemies and barbarians! On the other hand, the New Democracy, which first lifted the plastic flag of the "immemorial-antimony" dilemma, is now moving into a new polarization, the anti-SYRIZA. However, we do not need any more 'anti-dumping' in Greece. Greece does not need to do so from instead - SYRIZA. Greece needs a progressive change plan for its productive reconstruction and a modern sustainable social state. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We need jobs, ladies and gentlemen, not fireworks, understanding and not saviours, unity and not fronts. National strategy, at last, for the future of this place and not the search for accomplices. One year SYRIZA, one year lost. Lies revealed, hopes shattered, incapacity paid today by the Greek people. Words ragged, like domination, dignity, honor, rights. And the occasional antimony blocks - New Democracy, SYRIZA, Independent Greeks - were tested. And the so-called new faded out very quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago Mr Tsipras announced his thirteenth pension. Since then, Prime Minister, all that has been happening is your governance. Do you have to ask yourself, why today are you not able to give it? You bring to Parliament a plan that exterminates workers, scientists, professionals, farmers, pensioners and puts all the burdens on the new generation. This is not reform. It does not lead to a solution to the insurance policy but to the poverty of the Greeks. Introduction measures amounting to 1.8 billion for 2016, with reductions in benefits and cutbacks in contributions. You have spoken ironically about the « tie movement» but on the streets it is not only the owners of large offices and construction companies. They're mostly young people, they're bio-populists, they're people who fight and fight for their future, and they're the ones for whom you're supposed to fight and give vows of faith to this Greek people, to this new generation. Prime Minister, these interventions in insurance were not necessary. Why are we talking about zero-based insurance today? Why has the government committed itself to horrifying charges for these two years? Mr. Tsipras, in his habitual manner, states: "It is because of previous governments, these evils who have also made so many reductions and cuts", which he has sometimes said eleven and sometimes twelve. He'll find the account at some point. Indeed, there were significant cuts from 2010 to 2013 - we never hid it - but they were made to save the insurance system from bankruptcy, the system that was derailed by the dangerous policies of the New Democracy of 2004-2009, when the deficits in the four major funds were tenfold, from EUR 530 million reached 5.4 billion, then that the debts of the funds in the hospitals were doubled, from 580 million reached 3.6 billion, and then that the property of the funds was reduced by 25%, due to the waste and the scandals with structured bonds. But it's not just cuts. The reform came with the n. 3863 the law of PASOK, which all then questioned, and all today speak of him. My firm knowledge of having you first. This is a law that led to a sustainable and fair system, with decent pensions, guaranteeing new generations, with a single system of contributions and benefits for all Greeks. The Eurogroup, in November 2011, recognised on the basis of approved studies by the National Analogue Authority, that our insurance system will have a sustainable prospects for many decades and was also confirmed by the study of the National Analogue Authority in December 2014. At the same time, of course, we have also made other reforms, because the PASOK and the democratic party are the only thing that has been reformed in this place. We proceeded with the creation of the EEA, the Disability Certification Centre, the Single Retirement Control Centre, e-prescription, the creation of a Single Assistance Insurance Fund. So the insurance funds were kept up at the time of the crisis. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You're lying again about the PSI. Yes, it was loss of about EUR 12 billion, but with the huge cut in public debt, it enabled 98 billion to be given between 2010 and 2015 from the krone budget to the insurance funds. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] So how did we get this far? What's going on? Who is responsible for the government and Mr Tsipras committing more than EUR 2 billion to measures? The answer is obvious. They themselves, SYRIZA - ANEL. The officials are seated in the cabinet. It is the government and the ministers who send the bill to the Greek people. You have turned the expectations of high growth in the country into a great and protracted recession. You have plunged the economy, imposed the capital controls, undermined business activity in the country, with a particularly negative impact both on employment and on the insurance funds. You did not apply the law in good time. 3863. You have made progress in committing the reserves of the insurance funds, undermining their future and starting to waste the GAEC reserves in order to cover the big liquidity issue that you yourself, with your policy, have created. Mr. Tsipras was handed over in July 2015 unconditionally and since then he has been anxiously seeking to transfer responsibilities and find accomplices. He tells us we've all voted for the memorandum. We remind him that we voted for the country's euro stay, because it did not have the majority in the House to do so, and the risk was enormous, when its double currency plans, for assistance from Russia, from Venezuela, the piles, etc., had already collapsed. Moreover, he also stated in the election that he would renegotiate the unfavourable provisions of the memorandum, which he has never done. He turned his back on conciliation, and today he remembered to propose a so-called dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the contents of the government's plan, what today meets the universal resistance of Greek society. Firstly, the government proposal is not a reform. It's a dangerous plan and a crock of n. For the purposes of applying the two-billion reductions for which the Government has committed itself. It is characteristic that it is not accompanied by proportionate studies. There are no detailed economic data or detailed quantified targets. The government plan undermines the principle of proportionality in benefits, undermines insurance awareness and equals pensions. It is unjust to those who have been contributing to the system for many years consistently and who are looking forward to a decent pension, at the same time creating incentives for tax evasion and black work. Of course, it unfairs employees, workers in the private sector. The reduction in pensions is midtermically up to 15% compared with the current level. I'll give two examples so I don't get tired of you. Worker with forty years of insurance and pension pay 1500 euros, according to n. 3863 would take 1,184 euros. With the government's plan, pensions will reach 1.050 euros. Worker with thirty years of insurance and pension pay 1,200 euros would get 823 euros and the plan will get 736 euros. The government plan, therefore, leads to a serious reduction in pensions and especially to those workers who have been working consistently since twenty-five years of insurance. Secondly, the government proposal eliminates social groups, undermines the solidarity of generations and creates incentives for tax evasion, particularly with the extermination contributions it imposes on scientists, professionals and farmers. When these are linked to the declared income, they create a direct incentive to tax evasion in a very critical fiscal period in our country. I send a message to young people by telling them that they only pay for the previous generations, because their pension becomes a tip. We lead to incentives for informal entrepreneurship, i.e. "black" work that undermines the prospects of the Greek economy. It is very characteristic - listen to this too - that a lawyer with a completed five years in the profession and an annual income of 20,000 euros paid annually contributions to the Legal Fund 3,200 euros. Now, with the government plan, he'll pay 7,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u71	Where's the Prime Minister listening?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u72	The Prime Minister provoked the debate. Where is he now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u73	He called for dialogue in order to hear our views and is not in the Chamber. I hope he will at least monitor from his office, because we expect to hear the answers to all the issues that we raise. According to the Chamber of Economic Affairs - not what we say - for every 10 euros that a professional makes, the EUR 7 will be taxes and contributions. For farmers, things are much worse. That's why he's on the streets. Everything that has been heard is a lie. There are no zero pensions. The arrangements that the government brings to them are extinguished. They're condemning the Greek region in a turbulence. Young people with innovative ideas that give life to the countryside are now being destroyed. It is no coincidence that at present at the points of protest, the majority are young people, young farmers. From 1-7-2015 and within three years, their contributions will be twice as high as the current for the low category and up to three times for the larger categories. For farmers too, account must be taken of the increase in excise duty on oil, the great increase in advance tax, the forecasts of an increase in the rate of taxation on income. When taxes and insurance are integrated, a farmer with 12,000 euros annual income is invited by 2019 to pay 5,520 euros, i.e. 46% of his income. Here's the other one that makes it even worse. If his wife is also insured in the OGA, he must pay 66% of his income. Let farmers contribute to the country's effort! Yes, of course, but not economically exterminated and despaired. There are other solutions. To exalt farmers and threaten farmers, it certainly does not lead to a solution. The so-called doubling of a number of farmers' pensions are also lies, Mr Tsipras. All you have to do is read the forecasts of your own budget, which reduce the financing of OGA pensions by EUR 145 million for 2016. You are abolishing state funding for the main pension of farmers. For every euro paid by the farmer, the state put 2 euros. Now, the farmer's gonna put it all out of his pocket so he can get a lesser pension. The third point is that the government proposal affects both pensioners and those with low pensions. Article 15(2) of the Katrugalou Plan clearly provides that the pensions of the current pensioners will also be reduced in 2018, by abolishing the personal difference. And I come to the billing by the government itself of its proposals. It contends that the subsidiary and 146 million of the share capital dividends for public pensioners will be reduced by 200 million. So these aren't part of the pensions, Minister? However, the low pensioners are also particularly affected because their pensions have already been reduced by 3% by increasing care contributions. Why the CSR has been reduced since this year to a hundred thousand low pensioners who lose 223 million euros, because the pension threshold will not be paid for those who have not completed the 60th ‘seventh year’ and why the proposals for a new increase in contributions also include them. Even the provisions of the bill for people with disabilities are caring for the rights in these weakest and most sensitive families in the country, according to an announcement from the ESDC and not our own comments. Fourthly, it is a proposal without vision, ladies and gentlemen, without a strategy, without a guarantee of a sustainable and fair system. It is not based on modern and functional concepts. It lacks any reference to professional funds and the possibility for insurance institutions to manage their assets transparently and to ensure significant returns. There is no reference or provision for the necessary new resources. That's what the system needs. New resources! Not even the intention of using our own legislation on the Generation Solidarity Fund. Even the way in which the integration of the funds is proposed will eventually lead to a hydro-headed organism with very large new operating problems. However, the biggest issue of all, is that with government policy in the economy, we are leading to a vicious cycle of unfavourable interventions in insurance, without growth, without new jobs. Every two, three years we will return with even worse measures. That's how we lead to a dead end. Well, let's get this straight. We do not consent, we do not accept the government plan. Get it back now! We have heard today and Mr Mitsotakis, who has fully applauded the n. 3863. Welcome! I would like to remind you, however, that when we then brought the law to a vote, you voted against it, Mr Mitsotakis. In fact, you objected to unconstitutionalism and a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u74	Paulopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u75	These, to point out that when we acted on the reforms, New Democracy was with SYRIZA in the squares and anti-monotic cries. [[This is where the closed doorbell of the speaker's speaking time is ringing.]] It is an opportunity, therefore, for a subject requiring wider political consensus, for Mr Tsipras also to recognise our reform, withdraw his plan and initiate a serious dialogue on finding a solution. Ladies and gentlemen, some two months ago we held an open debate on social security with the presence of scientists, experts and, of course, all the social actors in exclusion. Our proposals have two main axes. The first axis has to do with progressing a national plan for the relaunching of the economy and growth, based on major reforms in the state, justice, the market, education, the tax system with investments by Greek and foreign people linked to incentives to create jobs. The second axis is about direct intervention in the insurance system with boldness. We therefore propose the integration of the funds into three main insurance funds. What led you to the isotopeic decision on a fund? The supposed savings from the EUR 500 million functionalities? But all operational is 346 million euros! Didn't you study them well enough? Compulsory ancillary insurance and a sustainability clause for ancillary funds. Incentives to strengthen occupational insurance and vocational funds for the expansion of supplementary benefits. Thirdly, a single system for everyone, without exception, based on Law 3863. A basic pension without income criteria and analogous to predefined contributions and benefits and respect for sexual solidarity. This combination of basic pensions and analogous pensions considered to be extremely fair had already been passed by the PASOK government. Admit at some point, everyone in this Chamber, the truths, so that we can move forward. This is how national understanding is built. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Acceleration of the implementation of Law 3863 until 31 December 2020, instead of 2035 that was envisaged, in order to save resources for the system. Preservation and reform of the ESS as a mechanism to guarantee minimum guaranteed income for low-pensions. New resources for the system. I said it before. It is the key to transferring part of the revenues of the privatizations. Obviously, it will not solve the problem over time, but at the moment there is an urgent need for the implementation of the law to strengthen the AAGE and the revenue from the use of the country's hydrocarbons and mineral wealth. Consolidating mechanisms for control of the Funds and linking tax and levying mechanisms. Consolidate the mechanisms for exploiting the assets of the funds and the possibility of exploiting their reserves under transparency rules. Third contributions. We are opposed to increased contributions for employers and employees, because this ultimately undermines the competitiveness of our economy and leads to a loss of resources. It is indicative that by reducing contributions of 3.9 percentage points in 2014, not only jobs were created but also the yield of the contributions increased by 6%. The exterior increase in the contributions for agricultural professionals is not a solution. It will bring the exact opposite results. Contributions must be linked to employment, to the introduction of the employment clause, to all the policies of the government, as we proposed in 2014. We suggest: Firstly, professionals starting their activities, paying three years' contributions only for care and recognizing pension time during their working life. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Secondly, those microprofessionals active in areas of less than two thousand inhabitants should be classified in a lower insurance category to stop the ‘grey’ zone, between OIE and OGA. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Thirdly, generalising the application of the Bachelor to all farmers, who will be paid exclusively by herding with the anticipated withholding of the OGA contribution. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Fourthly, new regulation ensuring payment of current contributions to the OSH and capitalisation of old debts, ensuring long-term payment for them. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We must also commit ourselves to a specific clause, ladies and gentlemen, that from the benefits of development we will improve the budgetary resources available to the system by improving injustices. Ladies and gentlemen, we tell the government, put your suggestions in the handsome basket and start dialogue from the beginning to find a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, be quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II), to Articles 2 and 8 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directives 2003/71/EC and 2009/138/EC and Regulations (EC) No 407/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community’. Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009, (EU) No 1060/2009, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1055/2010, as regards the powers of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (hereinafter referred to as EAEC) and the European Securities and Markets Authority and Article 4 of Directive 2011/89/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 November 2011 on the supplementary supervision of financial entities belonging to financial conglomerates and related provisions of private insurance law’ The speech is given by the Secretary-General and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u77	For those who did not understand, the whole'snatch' of the President here was for private insurance. It has to do with what we're talking about. It'll be Friday, and that's it. The real objective of the government, as is clear from today's speech by the Prime Minister, is one. To earn time, to cultivate the illusion that she can - supposedly - her plan to improve, set up another fake impression fight with the parties who together voted the third memorandum and are fighting with them today for the government chair. The position of the Communist Party of Greece is clear. The government's plan is not corrected, it does not take any modifications, it has to be withdrawn here and now, as hundreds, thousands of workers in the mobilisation, demonstrations, blockages. We would also like to point out the following: at a time when the government makes use of the procedures for parliamentary scrutiny, as is the previous item in the House, for its communication tactics more, deprives these procedures from the other parties. And we say this because the JRC has already tabled a timely question signed by the entire Parliamentary Group on the problems of farmers and we are really curious to see when it will come to a debate in this House. I'm presenting it to you in the Minutes again for there to be, in case he's lost somewhere in the ministerial drawers. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, social security is one of the greatest conquests. It is located at the core of the life of the working, people's family, ensures the protection and cover of the weak, contains insurance and pension protection, access to health and welfare services, the institution of heavy and unhealthy professions, protection against occupational risks, rest and childbirth leave. These conquests have not been granted, they have been achieved through harsh, bloody - truly - workers' struggles. We ask the simple question: Who have these people from the start welcomed, supported the government's plan for insurance? It was BSE, it was the other big-capital organisations, your partners in the European Union, regardless of whether these latter are asking for even more. However, from the first moment, they said that with the basic architecture of the draft of the insurance proposal. However, the whole of the majority is across the street. He's mobilizing, fighting, strikeing. The government's insurance plan is cut and stitched only in the interests of industrialists, bankers, shipowners, the European Union's big dealers. First of all, it has been putting an end to the social nature of insurance for many years now, that is to say, the social nature of insurance, that insurance should be transformed into an individual case. The attack on insurance and pension rights, as well as the attack on wages, collective agreements, the attack on working time, on permanent and stable work, are aspects that intensify the exploitation of workers. To make the economy more competitive, in order to come up with new investment and development laws, the main condition is to obtain the business privileges, a reduction in so-called non-wage costs, to save state money for new investments, new tax exemptions. Therefore, for them the social security system is an inappropriate weight. That's how they see it. Secondly, parts of the capital, insurance companies, major traders in health, caradokun at the corner to grab prey from the collapse of the socio-security system. The policy pursued by both the current government and the previous ones is to reduce the State and employers' participation in social security to a degree that is definitively dismantled. Next to the private insurance sector, there will be a permanently degraded public insurance system, and this system will only be maintained by the working people, through increased contributions, reductions in pensions, through continuous increases in pension thresholds. Thirdly, with the regulations of insurance, thousands of poor farmers are displaced, thousands of professionals who will not stand and who will, when they leave there, cover the big capitalist companies. That is why the employers' organizations are supporting you, so that we say and again say that this government is completing the dirty work that the New Democracy and the PASOK have not been able to complete on behalf of the capital. Who else could propose such barbaric measures and even present them as philosophical? The memorized memorial, as you say, New Democracy and PASOK, or others of SYRIZA, you who came with the left-hand and progressive cloak? Who could better play the game of reforming the political scene? The double memorial - antimony has ended since you've all been commemorative. The "Yes - No" duplicate ended this since the summer, since the next day from the referendum, you all went with "Yes". Now you need a new fake, cellular double, and this is set up with the shape Right - Left, neoliberal - populist, on the one hand, to cover up your match with the strategic concept of the New Democracy and PASOK, and on the other hand, to rinse these parties out of the anti-popular policy that followed, with the argument that SYRIZA, the Left, is doing the same. And above all, in order for the people to be caught in one of the same, to be disappointed, to be brought to inertia, not to see the real perspective. This is your offer to the system. So you are the useful 'polyester' of this rotten system. Ladies and gentlemen, all the government's propaganda fuss is provocative, outrageous. He falsely states that there will be no new reductions in the current pensioners when the summer itself brought a new blow to them. The pensions are reduced through their new calculation and the reductions concern young and old pensioners, as the personal difference paid to old pensioners can be reduced at any time and will be given at the most by 2018. You dismantle the subsidiary, reducing the total amount received by a retired person, who does not care if the reduction is in the main or the subsidiary, but what will enter his pocket and of course less. You drastically reduce the beneficiaries of CSR with new income criteria and abolish the allowance in 1919. By your proposal you break disabled pensions, social benefits, leave to the mercy of thousands of people who are for whatever reason incapable of work. The new measures come to stand on the multiple reductions in pensions, rights, the hitting of the thirteenth and thirteenth pensions, the continuous knife in the CSCE and the handicapped ones we had in the past five years. The government, which has been consciously mocking thousands of retired people last year, burys once and for all the right to the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, expressly stating that the amount of the pension is paid per month, twelve times a year. Ladies and gentlemen, in the filthy propaganda war you have unleashed, we hear through statements by government officials about the cosmopolitan insurance system, about the negative proportions of retired workers, about the enormous increases in pensions, fund deficits and mismanagement, about equality and equality, in other words, the same language that the previous governments used to slaughter insurance rights. The insurance, however, is much more for workers than a mere comparison of costs, from the possibility of a new profitability of the groups, that is to say, what the monopolistic groups calculate. You keep talking about proposals. Do you want any suggestions? Here you go. We are tabling the proposal for a law tabled by the Communist Party of Greece for a year and a half for pensions and insurance. I don't read it all, I don't have time. I give her to the Minutes, too. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] As far as the question is concerned, the answer is only one. To pay those responsible for the deficits in the funds, your state and the capitalism. The workers, who are once again called upon to pay the marble, have paid double and triple for the insurance with their work, with their contributions, with taxation. At the same time, more than 100 billion are the state and employers debts to the funds, the losses from gambling the stock exchange, the PSI haircut under the responsibility of the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. However, with the recent recapitalisation of SYRIZA - ANEL's banks, the funds lost over 1 billion. Two months ago the government said it only needed EUR 5.7 billion for the process of bank recapitalisation. This money, if the government was classic discriminatory, as your various executives say, would go to the immediate needs of the retired, the workers, the relief of the populace. However, the Government does not intend to make use of what was left over from the recapitalisation of the banks for the financing of the insurance. There can therefore be no debate on insurance, which will not begin with the return of the reserves that have been closed over the years. There can be no debate that will not raise the issue of the abolition of black, uninsured work, of all the flexible labour relations, which your co-government has not touched to a minimum. So when you ask for proposals on insurance and at the same time consider that the funds are being used, you consider that, given the commitments made in the memorandum to reduce State funding, you consider the working jungle to be present. It is like asking only for proposals on how to slaughter workers, pensioners, young people in our country. Such proposals do not expect the Communist Party of Greece. Such proposals can possibly be submitted to you by the other parties and submitted. After all, with them you have voted for the memorandum, with them you agree on the main axes and the insurance, you are walking in their own footsteps, regardless of whether today with New Democracy and PASOK in particular, you are all raising tone among you for opposition reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, the government in this attempt to deceive the people is trying to fool with constructed evidence. He continues to provokely mention that with the government plan for insurance he defends the weak. He says he protects young people. We say that all this is 'the air cut off'. No young person who is currently working with bad industrial relations is protected. No young person who is currently chasing the payroll is supported, even when unemployment is steadily touching over a million people, when the unemployment of young people is 48%, when black, uninsured work is about 25%. With the government's proposals, the young man is sentenced for life to incompetence, to life with the minimum wages of 300, 400 euros, to work in poorly paid five-month plans, to look for the meaning in conditions of intense mobility, with contracts for a month and even a day. Today's young people, the twenty-six, the roses, who are fighting on the ruins of industrial relations, beyond their subtle health benefits, will in future have a symbolic pension, which will be added to the national hunger pension of EUR 384. Do you live, gentlemen of the government, with 400, do you live with 450 euros? Ladies and gentlemen, the insurance bill strikes the people's layers as a whole, craftsmen, liberals, farmers, workers with blocks, scientists, engineers, lawyers, pharmacists, doctors. It triples the contributions to farmers, increases the contributions to free professional scientists. For the self-employed, linking pension to contributions, therefore income, along with the new way in which pensions are calculated, will lead to thousands of professions in significant and large reductions in their pensions, to work with manure in the hand eventually. It will force thousands of self-employed people to pay about 65% of their income, with a reasonable result of book closure, lock-up, unemployment. The reductions made by the government concern those who are in a bad financial situation by taxes and carpets and who cannot pay the reduced contributions either. It also does not say that fewer contributions will give even lower pensions and social benefits, greater tolerance in the immediate future. For farmers, the government's plan provides for a large increase in contributions, so that the vast majority of small and medium-sized farmers are unable to respond. This savageness of measures made the glass overflow. It comes out massive farmers, farmers, fishermen, beekeepers on the streets all over Greece on the race's roads. The government, in a 'conspiracy' of Ministers, blames farmers as tax-raisers. You're lying. You cultivate social automation in every way so that you can pass the disastrous policy of destroying small and medium-sized farmers. You slander them, swear them, because they are massively, militantly, decisively fighting, claim their survival and have the support and solidarity of the majority of our people. Each small and medium-sized farmer each year sets out in detail how many acres and what he will cultivate. On this basis, it pays a scoop contribution to ELGA for the insurance of its production, regardless of whether it sells it, regardless of whether it rots in the field, regardless of whether any dealers buy it under the cost of production. It is a stable goal of your Government, the evidence of forced bleeding of poor farmers. In the same direction, you are also using the existence of stranding the farm, with the argument of a main farmer, not as falsely invoking to alleviate but to exterminate the poor, medium-sized farmers who are forced by most of them not by choice but by the need to live, to survive, to seek further work. As far as the statements by the Minister for Rural Development which we heard yesterday are concerned, we will find ourselves out of the European Union, and remember that seven months ago in the context of the referendum, the very same measures were termed as a tombstone in the agricultural sector. Tombstone for small and medium-sized farms is the policy of the European Union, which you implement as SYRIZA - ANEL with your partners in the European Union, in the other Euro-mono street parties. So leave the candy that you're protecting the weak. Pick up and leave the provocatives, the slanders that on the street are supposedly the rich professionals and the big farmers. The road is the workers, the retired, the unemployed, the blocks, the poor farmers, the professionals, the young, even the workers and the retired, from the Armed Forces and the Security Body. All these requests must prevail. All these interests we defend. Ladies and gentlemen, no one must believe a word of what the government says. This crime was planned years ago. The same measures are being taken in all the countries of the European Union. It's been directions since the early 1990s. No worker should fall into the snare of debt regulation and debt development that they are supposed to make up for today's losses. Barbaric measures are the prerequisite for any debt adjustment. They came to stay in the process of any recovery, which is, of course, uncertain in this world capitalist economy. And even these measures will come, they will remain without any replacement for losses, if the people do not take the luck in their own hands. After all, we must not forget that the eruption of social security began two decades ago in high growth conditions. The only force that can stand in the way of government plans, those plans of impoverishment, which can put a brake on the momentum of monopolistic groups and their governments, is only a great popular, social alliance. The JRC is calling on workers in a massive war front to save and strengthen the institution of public social security. Social security must be compulsory, universal, within the responsibility of the State and of the employer. So only he can offer decent pensions, only public and free health, care, care without the burden of the workers. We can - we say - live a life of dignity, with modern rights. These were, moreover, the ones that the history teaches, the conquests of other peoples - and in the previous century - in the socialist countries. Insurance, pensioning, medical care, was an exclusive obligation of the State without the costs of workers. And these, especially in these difficult, black times, must be remembered and especially given to young people and young people in our country. Under the pressure of socialism at the time and the hard class struggles throughout the capitalist world, some of them have been able to taste them in the past few years. We can, therefore, live as our people deserve, as long as our country's productive potential, the rich production sources, the accumulated means of production become social property with people's power, exploit themselves centrally, with scientific design, with the active involvement of workers in the organisation and management of social production and social services, with the release of the European Union's chains and a unilateral debt write-off. Only that can end the sufferings that accumulate our people with this rotten capitalist system, its crises, the European Union and the governments that manage this road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba. Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of Potami, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, on Sunday I met with farmers in Elias. I am talking about farmers living from their jobs, from their fields and not living from subsidies, farmers who produce all that is at our table. I went where they're gathering, where they're talking, where they decide on their mobilizations. I bring a message, gentlemen of the government: Stop mocking them and tell them the truth. Farmers are not in the era of black-and-white television, as some people may think. Because I have seen some of your Members who have tried to approach them in a style "do not run and nothing, we decide, you will pay again we are friends". Of course they left the roadblocks badly. So apologise to the farmers. You promised them everything without a plan for anything and you won't fool them with beads. They realized that you deceived them to take authority, which was all you were interested in. They see the way you talk. They know about your waste, about your party state, about the thousands of posted employees. By the way, because this is a big deal, I have a proposal to save more than 100 million by the end of the year, because Mr. Tsipras said he is looking for equivalents and wants proposals. So we're talking. Now abolish with a law, with an article in the law of Chohatzopoulou, which in 1985 turned the political offices of the Ministers into public services. [[Applause from the river wing]] This is a concrete and directly applicable proposal, a proposal to all parties and, above all, to the parties of power that raised the party state, the New Democracy, the PASOK and now SYRIZA. It is a proposal that the government must accept. With one amendment, the government doubled administrations in public services, public bodies. So bring an amendment that will abolish the advisors' armies, and for now also for the next governments, and we will vote for it. It will also be a message to society. 'We limit our party state for insurance'. Do you stand or insist on the reverse message 'all sacrifice in the party state'? So they know all of these farmers and they will not retreat with molds and supposedly bumped back. Only us, Greece, one and a half years after the start of the new CAP, have not yet defined who the active farmers, the professional farmers, who are the beneficiaries of subsidies, aids, Community programmes and any tax advantages. So, ladies and gentlemen, the farmers want it. They want acts and not new promises. Ladies and gentlemen, the country's political class has not reached the point of view. It's the modestest I can say. The power parties and the opposition parties both defended an opaque client system. Together, they fought the few cowardly reformist efforts in the field of insurance. You were together, gentlemen of the government, but also gentlemen of the Officerial Response, at the demonstrations against the Yannitsis proposition. And in the reactions, the guilds, your party customers were always leading. The common goal was "what we eat, what we drink and what we grab and leave the next generations in their luck". Decades now have tax evasion, large operating costs of insurance mechanisms, delay in computerisation and lack of transparency, which makes it impossible to assess the supply of each fund. For all these important things, however, no debate, no proposal, no anxiety. The loans are good! This is how the people were disciplined. "The state covers deficits," says the official texts proposed at the time by the opposition parties, but also agreed by the government. "Create holes and here is the budget, get loans to patch them." The insurance problem, yes, existed in the country long before the economic crisis and was growing over time. Some are trying to show it as a legislative event, "the ageing population". But that was predictable from the past decades for all of Western Europe and many fell back in the 1990s, 2000, and reformed their insurance system. But here, we laughed at the concerns of the next generations and every social group that had influence over the parties and the media, in order not to forget, achieved a special insurance scheme, with huge disparity of contributions and pensions. State grants were mainly determined by the access of each client group to the Minister concerned. The price was heavy, and we all know it. The state pension subsidy for 2000-2014 reached the outrageous sum of EUR 200 billion, in other words more than two thirds of our debt, of the total public debt. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, by means of wisdom and trickery, is making a collectible 'double' in insurance, and in future the radical changes we need in the future. A real reform of the insurance system must primarily consider today's workers and future pensioners. The government in its proposal penalises him sincerely in his tax declaration and pushes free professionals who have income from EUR 15 000 to EUR 70,000 in tax evasion. I want to speak in particular, because government ministers are trying to drive us and the whole country crazy. Let us assume that a free professional, engineer, doctor or lawyer or a self-employed person has a net income of EUR 25,000 per year. On the basis of the government's insurance policy, it should give 20% for main pension, 7.5% for supplementary pensions, 6.95% for the health sector and 4% for a single pension. In other words, it must give 38.8% of the income in contributions. So the freelance professional and the self-employed, out of the 25,000, will give the 9,500 contributions. As far as he is concerned, he will have to pay for an income tax of 26% and in a few years 29%, i.e. 4,000 euros. We're not done yet. It has to pay a further EUR 650 trade fee and a 100% tax advance, i.e. another EUR 4,000. Therefore, be careful, from the EUR 25 000, he will eventually have EUR 6.300 if there is no exceptional contribution or a solidarity contribution. I repeat, since the EUR 25,000 will enter home 6.300. That is how the government managed to get them all out on the streets and scientists and farmers and small and medium-sized self-employed. It is clear that, with all this, in other words with the government's proposals, free traders are being pushed to avoid tax evasion and tax evasion. Tax evasion in our country is a wound that often opens up with absurd political decisions, a vicious circle in which political decisions constantly punish legality. And with your proposal, whoever is already taxing, it will obviously continue to avoid tax. But also the one who does not evade will go out to tax evasion. But let's go to the employees too. Increasing the contribution of 1.5%. And I heard some people say in the windows, what is 1.5 percent? The cost of wage labour not only should not be increased but should be reduced. The cost of wage labour is currently 37.10% and with the increase of 1.5% it will go to 38.6%. You sacrifice - so I was told by doctors, lawyers - the free professionals to avoid sacrificing your client state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, isn't the Prime Minister coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u82	He caused the conversation and he's not here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u83	Here's the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u84	He hears from his office. It's a little more comfortable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u85	Go on, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u86	Well then we'll have a teleconferencing conference!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA sees social justice as follows: it makes no difference how low the standard of living of some people will fall, as long as everyone falls, that is to say, that the whole society will go down. I want to give another example. The numbers are tiring, but in a conversation like this they are necessary. A employee with an average salary of 700 euros will pay thirty-five years of insurance of 59,000 euros and receive a main pension of 650 euros. A wage earner of 2,000 euros will pay contributions of about 180,000 and receive a main pension of 1,100 euros. We call on him, in other words, to pay three times the contribution, to receive less than twice the amount. He'll pay three times and collect twice as much. We call on him, in short, to escape. We keep hearing the ministers say 'if we do not want to cut pensions, we must increase contributions'. We say there is another solution. If we do not want to cut pensions, cut the waste from the state budget, reduce the costs of the state that has stubbornly refused to do so, and this government will do so. We presented three specific figures a few days ago at a major event entitled 'Cut off costs to cut taxes'. We can save 380 million from the abolition of useless organisms. We will also earn 50 million of the rent by transporting some ministries. And the State's income will increase by 720 million - the studies say - if we reduce red tape by 25%. Insurance, ladies and gentlemen, needs brave changes, reform for younger generations and not collective sloppies. Mr. Katrugalos' plan fully loads burdens on the next generations. It's the old recipe. Young workers are undergoing a threefold abuse. Insurance contributions are increased, pensions that will be paid in the future and equal downwards to those who have paid less are reduced. The system remains dramatically committed to yesterday. It does not introduce ideas and thoughts for the second and third pillars, which could give a breath of security and of progress for the insured and which is now a common place for most countries in Europe. After all, the second and third pillars are also one of the proposals, the points made by the Parliament's Budget Office. The insurance system for Greece was a lentil that everyone orders for themselves the most expensive and finally everyone points towards the door saying "the account will be paid by the girl who just gets in". We too cannot support this insurance. The place wants a dynamic economy, it wants social cohesion and an insurance policy that does not give rise to new inequalities, it will not punish the work, but release the powers of work. We need, yes, a new social contract, but on the basis of honesty and the admission of mistakes. Can you? I guess not, definitely not. Because the driver of the government is the old, he cannot think outside the old, he cannot think of the bold changes that society expects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u88	Thank you Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the party The Potami. Mr Vassilis Leventis, President of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's meeting reminds me a little of the President-in-Office's palace, that is, it's nothing. What's today's meeting? Convincing it's a good bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u90	Let's hear suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u91	Oh, we should put forward proposals! We'll give you one. If it is intended to do so, there is one reason. Bravo! Since you want suggestions, I've told Mr. Katrugalo when he visited me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u92	Here you can tell the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u93	The many pensions should become one, because we have three hundred thousand three-fold pensions of the main funds and one must be merged. We have a million hundred and fifty thousand or so double major fund pensions, which need to be merged into one. Put the cap on 1,500 euros and not on the 3,000 euros that you put in to make your cosmakis, your armies. Is that right? So let's put the cap on 1,500 euros. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] To cut off the pensions of the former Members, because they are about nine hundred - together with the widows - who receive pensions and the pensions of the rich, who are eighty thousand cases of those who have income on the basis of the figures from the General Accounting Office of the State of the State of more than EUR 3 000 per month each from other sources, i.e. from rent, interest on deposits and dividends. Did you hear that? We can cut off pensions, so we can put on income criteria. You, instead of doing what I suggested to Mr. Katrugalo and you who have been calling them for a long time, what have you been doing? You have charged two classes, the class of free professionals and farmers, the so-called weak classes, which are fragmented, and unionism is difficult. It's hard for lawyers to demonstrate the pot or the tie. All right, and what they did is not very serious, to come out of five hundred people and by their presence to want the government to change or do back, a government that has signed everything since August. For what Mr. Katrugalos is going to do now, it's not his fault. Here it is, I honor him, but it applies the third memorandum. And I don't understand New Democracy because it's backing up. So, he signed it in August and is it bad in January? This is a matter of a party's seriousness. I wasn't in Mr. Mitsotakis' speech, but what's the argument? You mean you don't want that insurance? You made suggestions for your own package, let's go outside and see if they like it? Make a proposal, take it out to the Europeans, and if they say 'bravo, it is better than Karugalos', to vote on it. Crying here and pulling smears of sympathy to the affected, this is not so decent - let us say - and it does not show seriousness in this Chamber. Anyway, since you wanted to hear proposals - I guess you don't like these proposals because your children are being affected, do you? - Uh, apply them. Tomorrow morning I shall vote - and I declare it - if you put the cap on the top of 1,500 - if there is no pension over EUR 1,500 in Greece - if you merge all pensions into one, if you cut the pensions of the rich, the eighty thousand already having income from other sources of EUR 3 000 - to suspend for five years because of a crisis - and if you cut the pensions of the former Members, you will have the vote of the Central Association. Will you do it? Instead of doing this, you put the weights and the jerk on the head of farmers and free professionals who feel them as weak linkes. Another thing that I cannot understand is that we, the other parties, really want to be honest. When you say that with less baseball you'll give the same pensions, you guys, this is a simple mathematical teacher to go and say it's utopia. You insist on SYRIZA in the view that with less money you will pay the same pensions and not cut anything. But if you don't cut anything, why don't you just leave the Samara system and George Papandreou, the old ones? If you don't want to cut anything off, what is made sustainable since you won't cut anything, as you say? So what do we say 'we do a fund'? The substance is accounting. If the money stays the same for retired people, what do you want all these stories? Who are you laughing at? Apparently, yourself, because who else can make fun of? I mean, with less money you'll pay the same pensions. You're the one who squares the cycle properly! The Jesuits have not succeeded, you have succeeded, since you say you will not cut anything off from anyone, and on the other hand we must reform the system because it does not come out! If it comes out, what do you do? Take care of other things. Go to your districts to eat wood, because that's what's gonna happen to you in the end. [[Noise in the Chamber]] We'll see if you can go to your districts, see the farmers, the employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u94	That is a good level, Mr President. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u95	I don't encourage.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u96	Yes, "you don't encourage"! Now you're picking up!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u97	You saw that my view was - and it is - that farmers should leave the national roads. You must read our communication, unless you do not read anything, do not concern yourself, and if you are MPs who do not follow the views of the other parties. My view is that the reactionary social classes are vain. They won't do anything. It's this kind of signature that you've put on, that's all you've got left to do is beautify it. So, what does Mr. Tsipras say now to his MPs? He says: “It will become a debt cut. So, whatever difficult and bad you sign and vote now, you will be paid off because it will be cut off." Do you believe what your Prime Minister tells you is going to be cut off? Can you believe it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u98	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u99	We'll be here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u100	I'll take a camera to see who believes it. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Honestly, if you believe that a debt will be cut, there is only one way, the one one one Belgian said today - it seems to me - every one million refugees are cutting us off half a billion. Did you hear that? Didn't you hear what they announced? Take a million refugees here in areas and cut us half a billion out of the debt. In other words, Greece must be filled with six hundred million refugees - because 340 is the debt - to save you from the debt. This is your method!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u101	There's a lot of six hundred million!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u102	Don't doubt it! Calm down, we'll find them. And I'm glad you're applauding. You say that the debt will be reduced. I'm telling you, if a penny falls, you'll come and get me some coppers! All that's going to be done is prolongation of debt. So, if you say that haircut, it's in your own language. Then you say the PSI destroyed the insurance funds. I told Mr Tsipras and within the President-in-Office: I know that we are giving around 17 billion a year for the insurance funds. How much did the insurance funds lose, 15?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u103	Thirteen and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u104	Yes, 13.5. The state, Greece gives every year 17 billion to the insurance funds and SYRIZA weep for the 13th of Papademos, who saved Greece from 110. That's not what they say. And I can't understand why Tsipras doesn't say it. I told him in the presidential palace and changed the conversation, the conversation. He completely changed the conversation - to know - when I said to him: 'If you were given the opportunity to download 110 billion more, even creating problems in banks and in insurance funds, that is, cutting the reserves by 10-15 billion, wouldn't you?' He didn't answer me. Now, there is no opportunity, because the bonds are held by the European Central Bank, and that is not the case. Parliament's decisions are needed. But, ladies and gentlemen, if there were any possibility of putting down another 110 billion, would we not do so because we would be harming the 13 insurance funds? Are you serious? Please. Unless you don't have the measure of what you say. I am also sorry for the Prime Minister that I consider him wise. Kammens raised the issue within the Presidential Palace that the insurance funds have been destroyed since the 13.5 billion. And I say: 'But every year, this country gives 17'. Yesterday, I heard an apostle, that gentleman is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u105	It is not “an Apostle”. Minister is Mr. Apostolos, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u106	On TV I saw him, and he's remarkable. He said something nice. He said the OGA budget is 3.5 billion and only 300 million are contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u107	Three hundred forty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u108	So, 91% 92%, as I took it out at that time, of the OGA's money is from the state. Does this have to change, Mr. Apostleu, and become less?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u109	I didn't say that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u110	Of course, because we're borrowing. That's right. Do you want it to continue to be 91% of the state's subsidized money? Because the Prime Minister says they will guarantee the difference. If the pension falls, then the state will come to give it, 50 euros, 100 euros. I heard him in a speech when I was in the car. Does the state have any money to do with it? He's got the money, huh! However, we are really sitting here - there are not three hundred people, because there are some missing - and we are talking about what? That with less money they'll get the same pensions. You're a joggler. You're really bourgeois. If you do that, I will bow before you. But the wood to see who eats it! You're talking about simply analogous. You say you want a more proportionate system. Pliotakis, at least, explained to the Presidential Palace and said: "I am right, I am a capitalist and I want to be strengthened." He said: 'We want stable governments'. That's what man meant. He doesn't have to say "I'm a capitalist". He said: "Our resignation will be reinforced. The simple thing is that the New Democracy does.’ You who are left and fought for the simple analogue always, why didn't you? And you ask for a vote from parties like the Centroon Association if you don't. I'm not Florakis. You should know that Florakis, in '89, went with Mitsotakis and instead of raising the issue of a mere analogue, his people received National Resistance pensions. This is how the JRC was paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u111	You're an Elouroid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u112	Okay, I'm Tsipra's rabbit. You said I was a rabbit. You became rabbits in '89. In '89 you became rabbits!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u113	You're Alu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u114	Please! When I am, you tell me. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] But you made a government, an Inner Kick and a Mitsotakis, and you ate dolphins in Marika, the merciful one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u115	You're Alu!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u116	Please! Who's the rabbit? We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u117	That's what you used to say with pizza so you could have fun with people. That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u118	So with cries, you're going to be imposed? Okay, we're not talking to you! Be well. So get up to power all the time. Forty years you've come to power in the JRC, because you're out of place and time. You don't understand that communism has fallen. You want to go back to communism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u119	Go on to your suggestions now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u120	Don't provoke!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u121	Anyway, you're screaming. They're decent! Did we cry when Kutsubas spoke? Oh, no! The screams you know what they are. The cries are a sign of weakness! To end the matter, because you've put one in front...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, please protect yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u123	Let's not have a dialogue. Keep going, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u124	Two - three times from the Chamber you called me a "crowd", you who have been rabbits! Well, please! And who's gonna be a rabbit? I and Tsipras also ask that this Step submit his resignation for the formation of the Ecumenical. Do you know why I'm asking? I'll tell you why I'm asking. For to relax a programme - Greece at the moment needs a relaxation of the programme - you cannot go with a hundred and fifty three Members. And it's gonna be a hundred and fifty three on the day of the vote? We'll see how many we count. You know what? You're old, yeah. The first old man, the rest of you, I don't know. So, with a hundred and fifty three, do you want strangers taking you seriously when they know that you took 35% and that Kammenos has half the percentage from the Centro Association? In polls, Kammenos has half the percentages from the Centro Association. Nice partner, keep having him. And you're a popular majority like that. Okay. We said, did you have 35%, how much can we say you lost after what you're doing now? Half? At least half. So you've got 15% to put you plus Burned 1%, so 16%. With 16% you want to reform the country. That's what you want. Well, strangers don't take you seriously, and that's why the Grexit conversations are going on. There is no doubt that they are going on. You can say yours that, further to that, we will find prosperous. Samaras said that he would meet prosperous, and now he's hiding, he's not coming to the Hall. In any case, you think you'll make it. All right, we'll see the votes, because the work is worse than the insurance. Do you know why? Because Europeans are asking for the law to be harmonized. The Minister's here. We are the only country we have not harmonized in Community labour law. So all the trade union rights go for a walk. I believe that Mr Katrugalou's position in labour will be much more unfavourable than in insurance, because he must break down all the working rights. We are the only country we have not harmonized our legislation. You know that? And we have not harmonized it because they are some of you who deny everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u125	Like us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u126	Not you. But I don't even know you. Please don't impersonate. I'm addressing your wing. Because you're sitting on the first seat? Go to the last, so you're relieved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u127	You look at me all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u128	The President thinks that because he is in front of me - I am addressing him. That's too much! I appreciate you, too. I don't have anything with you guys, but you're sure you'll make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u129	I appreciate you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u130	I want to say something about both the free professions and the farmers. Do you understand what you're doing to these people? That she's in despair? Are they crazy? You're saying you're going to do them good, and they don't understand it and they're crazy? Is that what you think? No, so you know what you're going to do to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u131	We know. You don't know. You don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u132	I don't understand? Are you going to do them good? They are both crazy farmers and free professionals. All insane! Only you are cognitive that you are going to do good in Greece and Greece does not understand it. That's what you're going to do. For five years, you said: 'We do not want a memorandum, we have other solutions. We'll join the South against the North. We're gonna do, we're gonna show..." Have you done any of this? Whoa! [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Book must be written for promises. All that's left in Tsipra now is all your weights, thinking about them, putting them in the corner. And he's probably doing it, making an election, because the previous elections he did it to throw a few weights away. If there's more that's obviously there, he'll throw it away. He'll throw the rest of us out with a new election. So don't be happy, some of you. Don't be in a hurry and don't be happy. Is that right? You have a Prime Minister who, through elections, prescribes and leaves the knees alone. Those of you who are kneeling will survive. Everyone you have an opinion, you'll be caratized. In any case, why did you now choose the class of farmers and free traders? Because we said at first it was the weak link. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Oh, they have money. The gentleman knows that. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] The gentleman insists on knowing everything. If they have money, why don't you go get them? All right! Because you said that's what you did. To get a little serious...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u133	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u134	But be serious, too. You, too, get serious. Your actions make me have some sense of humor, because if we go far and hard, as we should, bitterly, we would say heavier phrases. Isn't that right? You're here to give a third payroll, you're here to give, and I don't know what else and now you're almost cut off - with what machine you're cutting off - not to say what. Don't give up on that. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] There's gonna be a hypocrisy memorial to your resignation. After all - I don't know when it's gonna be, it might be too fast - you'll stay in history that you promised everything. At least right-wings have a right-wing reason. They believe in Thatcher, they believe in totalitarianism. They chose Chief to fire. I will also tell you about the redundancies to you, the neo-democratics. I'll tell you what happened to me. Let Mr. Hatzidakis hear that. Walking in a museum here in Patisia, and in another museum, I saw some people in the canisters, and I thought they were visitors. They were a lot of people. It was full of museum cafes. I approached and say: ‘Are you visitors? Have you come together to see the exhibits?" They say: “No, we are OSE. Mr Mitsotakis transferred us here." And they drank coffee and cigarettes. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] This chief you made, who meant reforming to pick up a few thousand people and sent them to the canisters to drink coffee to complete their working life. These are the reforms you have made. When I saw it, I went crazy. Didn't they, at least, leave them in the positions where they were, which might have been offered? [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Now you're laughing. Is that right? I'll be back in a little while. Well, here's what I mean, ladies and gentlemen. As long as Tsipras, I'm glad he's here, has a hundred and fifty three and some of whom are questionable, the strangers won't take him seriously. Foreigners want political stability, and when they say political stability, they mean a coalition government of the two major parties. What do I hope? I hope that Samaras too, when going to the European People's Party, will be asked to vote on the insurance. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Mitsotakis. I'm sorry! I don't understand that there was an election! As he is in the Chamber - I have already congratulated him - I am once again congratulating him. I'll forget the old ones if it shows the soundness and responsibility a Chief has to show and he realizes it's the big time for a coalition government now. If he finds out, he'll have honored the voters. Because some thermo-heads in the New Democracy may tell Mr.Mitsotakis that "it is of interest for us to fall like ripe fruit, SYRIZA and us to become antimony, to get the vote". I consider him serious enough not to do that slip, because it will be the slipping at the start of his leading career and it will have gone through. While he and Tsipras, which is really difficult, want braveness, one who is Prime Minister to submit his resignation to the President of the Republic, for the sake of becoming a universal government. I understand that the attitude of both of us must show braveness. This bravery will be about Greece. It's not bad! My mother had a brother, who was sent to the Albanian Front, nineteen years old first and never returned. They didn't find bones, you know that? He was a close relative of mine who first went to the Albanian Front. First they put the child on, bare and ate the first bullet. There are people who have given their lives for Greece - not myself, but my relatives - and I think that for Greece it is worth making sacrifices, as well as Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras. If they take it to the extremities, the people are watching. Know that foreigners will not relax the Greek plan unless they see a large coalition. Vassilis Leventis tells you this, the humble and point it out! Two kinds of generosity must be done. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the President is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] What's up, my time's up?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u135	You have exceeded five minutes a year, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u136	If Mr Tsipras or Mr Mitsotakis goes alone tomorrow to call for a relaxation of the programme and some support from the Europeans, the Europeans will not give it to them because they do not trust them. For governments that have not complied with their word and the agreed ones have been ahead of them. Therefore, the only way for the country to be serious outside is the universal government. If you don't want it, I'm sure this House will be forced to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u137	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u138	I'm saying my opinion! You said I was involved. You must be ashamed of yourself! Does the complication make me suggest universal? Others may put them on, others may act. As in the issue of licences. You'll give four licenses and eight pan-Hellenics run. I'm asking who you're gonna cut off, so we know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u139	...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u140	Why, would you just give the money? So, money only has a SYRIZA criterion to give permissions? If a drug dealer comes in, will you give him permission?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, do not have a dialogue! Colleagues, don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u142	Let the Prime Minister explain who will cut! Can it cut stations like "ALPHA"? I have no reputation for the owners of these stations. But does a government, lightly heart, like changing shirts, cutting channels that operate thirty years? Another thing that we have to set order and make them pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u143	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u144	Please don't have a dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u145	Leave it legal and illegal! You personally are on the channels all day!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u146	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u147	You've been on the channels all day telling them they're not legal? You legalize them by your presence!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u148	Do not engage in dialogue, Mr President, if you please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u149	You need to explain who you're cutting. It's a question of democracy. You say the channels are not viable. I'll get you a board on Friday, how many national channels Portugal has, how much France, how much Germany, see that it's not four or five. I have the painting, don't worry!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u150	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, finish your thoughts if you are kind!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u152	But this is a coup d'état, taking the decision from the Conference of Presidents and bringing it to the House where you have the majority. This is a coup d'état. Why did we put the four-five? To have a fellowship in the channels. You bring it here in the House, you're a majority. This is a coup, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u153	We thank Mr Vassilis Leventis, President of the Group of the European People's Party. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Georgios Katrugalos has the floor. Here, you have the floor, Minister, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think the Greeks who see us from home have become wiser in terms of insurance. That is why we have not heard proposals. It is not a proposal, for example, that the solution to insurance is to become a second and third pillar, private and occupational insurance, when half of the people cannot pay the compulsory contributions. Where will the surplus income be at this stage to become the second and third pillars? The worst thing, however, is that the criticism of the only ones who have proposals, to us, was not on our proposals, but on a constructed idol, which was designed on purpose to engrave those who criticize us. And many times things have been heard that are unequivocal to Greeks' common sense and average perception. We have heard, for example, from the New Democracy and the Democratic Alliance that the n. 3863/2010 had solved the viability of the insurance system by 2060 and SYRIZA came and ruined the recipe. However, the President of the New Democracy, who read us a quote from the back of Mr. Yannitz's book on insurance and crisis, if he did the trouble of opening it, on page 59 he would see that Mr. Yannitsis says that the period from 2010 until we got the government not just solved the problem, but he was burdening the insurance, increasing the deficits by 33%. So you solved the insurance, doing a big black hole of 33% bigger! And if you went to page 17, you would see what Mr Giannitsis says about the responsibilities of the political system: "The insurance had turned into a mechanism for the award of benefits, for the rapture of wealth, and for the violation of every principle of rationality and justice." And I say: the snatching of wealth from the fragmentation of the funds and the PSI. Because it is the tripartite funding and that you get from the funds their reserves, which could be a lifesaving at the time of the crisis. You're blaming us for the subsidiary. We in the AS will not apply the zero deficit clause, as you agreed, but we will make use of the assets of the ancillary funds, just as the main funds could use their reserves, so that we do not reduce the supplementary pensions. What it has heard about our reform, however, is an irreversible reality! We've been accused of being virtual about our reform. Let me tell you three examples of laws between 2008 and 2012 that would solve the insurance and especially the new resources, for which you accused us that we cannot find ways to complete them. The law of Mrs. Petrilia, n. 3655/2008: 10% of the privatizations would strengthen the system’s reserves. Half of you? O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o In order to cover the crime of the PSI, public property would be transferred to the insurance funds. A tiles? And the culmination: 4162/2012: "We will cover the gaps in the funds with the resources from the oils". For the East Bank bonds you had no arrangement. But you took care of everything else. Our reform does something you have never dared to do. It shall apply rules of equitableness and social justice. You've made unifications, too. What kind of consolidations were these? Never! You incorporated the funds and kept the rules for the award of their pensions! Face unified, and that is why IKA today gives nine hundred different pensions. Reforms were the ones I heard Mr. Leventis mention. On the contrary, we want a fund, not because we have a particular commitment to this organisational form, but because we want uniform rules of equality and equality for all Greeks. We want, from the young man who will cut the first card on his block to the President of the Ice Bay, all the employees and the self-employed for the first time to be treated the same way by the state, not to have some Greeks more equal than others, not to have some privileged and some who do not have insurance protection. That is why we have chosen uniform rules for both contributions and benefits, simple rules to be applied. What about the main pension contributions? Each one in his actual income 20%, the rule for employees. Why would the hirers always be the ones who drag the car on their own? Why does it not make sense to calculate this burden on all people's real incomes as we count on employees? Equally, the same rules exist for everyone, for the awarding of pensions, for the income they will have in their working life, with a uniform rate of replacement for all, which will help the weaker - I will come to that when I talk to you about social justice - but which will be the same for all and of course the years that have been involved in the insurance system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u155	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u156	Also, our system is characterised by social justice. That's exactly why our reform is not like the attempt to reform Yannitzi-Sprau. rationalisation is not enough unless it is accompanied by social justice and the protection of the weak. How do we understand social justice? Those who are now outside the labour market, not because they are lazy and do not want to work, but because we have one and a half million unemployed, those children who are in the informal forms of employment, can be retired. And what have we predicted as a redistribution mechanism? First of all a new institution - and then I will tell you why he is young - the institution of national pensions. It is not the basic pension under Law 3863, because that was a method of calculating pensions, which was already given. National pensions will be financed exclusively by taxation, which is the main way of redistribution, and will be given to all who have at least fifteen years of insurance contributions. Also, the mechanism we predicted for the replacement rates is so made that it helps the weaker. Any Greek - and today is the great majority - has an income of 1,000 euros a month and below is won by the pensions it will receive and in relation to the contributions it will make. You blame us for taking special measures for young scientists and the weak. You told us that this was contrary to creation. Are you aware of the burden of the insult to the most educated, the most cultivated, the most gifted generation of new Greeks, who are at the same time the most wrongful, the one from the golden bubble of parents fell into the muds of the crisis? So you say that creativity is the one that is lacking on the five-cost or the masters and doctors who come from Paris and London and are lucky to find a 1,000 euros salary and that on the contrary, creativity is the one that runs from the ears of their bosses. Because at the moment the owner of a major construction company, the owner of a large law firm, pays exactly the same premiums, the same insurance obligation as the one who works for him as a slave with the EUR 500 block. Is that justice? Is it fair that those who make up to EUR 10,000 give 5,000, that is 50% of their income and others who have 60,000 euros income, give 4%, 5% or 7%? And it's unfair to calculate the contribution to real income? Is that the injustice? Don't you want there to be a protection of the weak inside of each category? Is that class hate? We call it social justice and our Constitution in Article 25 provides for the obligation of social solidarity. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] What was heard as criticism is precisely the reversed reality. They're accusing us that our system is sending the account to the next. This is what you, ladies and gentlemen, are doing, having with the previous categories of insured persons: before 1993, after 1993, before 2011, after 2011, before 2015, after 2015. We, for the first time, do not apply a status of equality of treatment, simply with an emphasis of bias in favour of the weak and also transgenic. That is why we recalculate pensions so that the rules themselves apply to this generation and to the next of pensioners. And the personal difference is guaranteed forever, and when it starts to fall, it will be because they will hope for growth and the current pensioners, because new pensions are linked to the growth clause, as long as they increase with the rise of the economy. For the first time since Venizelos arrested the idea of IKA, all Greek pensioners will be at speed, with the same rules, without any differences, depending on what they do or when they were retired. Isn't our proposal too costly? We've sent all the data in the course of the negotiation and you know it, because you get information from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u157	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u158	Because it is negotiable and obviously the negotiations are done with respect for the interlocutor. We too are respected, because for the first time we sent them our own texts to discuss. We didn't get the translated texts that send us to make them law. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] They tell us we're not taking action on black work. We have a special provision for an objective system of selection of contributions, so that where there are labour-intensive businesses, which we know there are people working eight and ten hours and declared for four, we can find this bad employer and make him pay the actual contributions. And for the miserable agricultural sector, a proper proposal that I have heard from Mrs Gennamas, is within the law. Just bother reading it. I'm short because I'm over time. One last thing to say about contributions. Can the contributions be reduced? The contributions are indeed high for both employees and other categories. For the other categories, however, we are simply applying to them - freelance professionals - the rule that exists for employees too. We didn't increase the percentage. We're just counting on real income. Can the contributions still go down? The answer is that no, as a result of a political decision and an objective situation. The political decision is that we do not want to reduce pensions. And because in the 'pay as you go' systems every generation pays her previous pensions, who now tells us to reduce contributions, she tells us to cut off the main pensions. Will you tell us openly? You haven't told us. The second reason is that, because of the crisis, we have a very, very low income capacity. Half of the self-employed, half of the farmers cannot pay contributions. That is why we adapt them depending on their income, because 80% of the people, who, in the case of farmers, are 88% - and at the level of the free trade, are doing less than EUR 10,000 per year, are favoured by our system. And that's exactly what we want to do. All the numbers you have given for the free professionals and farmers are forged. They have the mathematical logic "three of the oil, three the vinegar, six the oil". They do not take into account, in other words, that the insurance contribution is deducted, it is an exit for the free trader. Therefore, every euro increase in the insurance contribution amounts to half of the euro less tax burden. The information we will give tomorrow to the freelance professionals, within the Committee of Experts we have done, clearly shows that for those who are under 12 000 euros they will increase the amount they will put in their pockets and for all the other categories there is no possibility that the inclusion of insurance and tax expenditure will result in a higher burden than 25%. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This was necessary because there are medium-scale strata to share the burden. When you lighten the weak, some people have to pay. These others are not farmers. To farmers, the burden for those who are now in the third insurance category - the large majority - will be in 2017 something less than EUR 130 a year, not a month. We are prepared to discuss an increase in transition, possibly, in negotiation with our interlocutors internationally. Mr President, Mr Leventis, we are not going to square the circle. Indeed, we want to share a smaller pie in a fairer way. The pie fell short, because one quarter of national wealth was lost in five years. That's exactly why we're doing the new system. The new system gives pensions which will be better for the small and the weak and which are somewhat burdensome for the pensions of the middle and upper classes. It's no different. But we can look into the eyes of those who trusted us again in September, who would like to go faster and do more and tell them that our new system, the new insurance system, gives a hope for the future. National pensions are essentially a pension with a growth clause. As long as the economy rises, she will rise. There's no other way to solve the insurance. If the pie doesn't grow, we'll find it hard to get a bigger part of it, however fair it is. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] But for the first time, we hope that today's worker will also be retired tomorrow. We give the retired person hope that the twelfth reduction will not come. What if I wasn't in this position as a representative of the SYRIZA Government and was Mr. Brutsis? He'd already have left a pension. He's said it. Are we the same? As much as I and Mr Mitsotakis were when he fired civil servants and we hired them again!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u160	I would like to make one final point about the populism of the anti-populists. They tell us about the posters and the party state. We have half the post-calls of what the former New Democracy government had.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u161	How many are in number?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u162	To explain, I at the Department of Administrative Reform had 1/3 of the post-calls Mr. Mitsotakis had.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u163	You're finishing up your thoughts, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u164	The passage to Antipoliticism is not equivalent to a political precipitation. We know your responsibilities. The Greek people know them. He knows that we manage "the broken" forty - over-years and he knows that we can trust us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Katrugalo. Mr Brutsi has asked for the floor on personal grounds. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for a minute, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard the Prime Minister and now Minister Katrugalo make a special reference to me. I'm starting with you, Minister. Of course we are not the same because everyone's political career is recorded. I'm not a liar, Mr. Catrugale, nor have I ever promised pension increases. You did it and the entire government. That's our difference. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As far as the evidence is concerned, let's take it in turn. What happened? The Chief of New Democracy submitted to you the first, the only reliable proportionate study carried out under the aegis of the European Commission, which showed that our insurance system with the 2014 financial model, i.e. the course of the economy, fulfilled the conditions for sustainability. And to tell you more thoroughly - why you are not studying and you do not know them - the commitment of the country that is on a continuous basis is that pension expenditure in 2009 should not exceed two and a half points by 2060. And we did it, Prime Minister! And there is your responsibility and your government: the "X" Plan of Varoufakis, the capital controls, the recession, the fact that you dropped out to seven points of GDP out and of that of EUR 3.2 billion in insurance. This is what pensioners, unemployed, workers and freelance professionals are paying today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u167	There is no staff, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u168	"Manolis, with words, makes insurmountable and inferior," Mr. Brutsi! You're making the numbers out of your mind!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u169	And I'm saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u170	Thank God you found it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u171	Answer me! Listen, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u172	You've found three billion now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u173	SYRIZA has implemented an employment pact, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u174	A little quiet, ladies! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, please take care of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u176	Of course, Mr. Brutsi! Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u177	This isn't personal!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u178	All right, Mr. Brutsi is done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u179	Answer me! I'm done! So listen! According to the commitments you have made, 1.25% of GDP - and I am speaking with numbers, Mr President, and not with ideological lines - are...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u180	Obviously! You're familiar!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u181	...it's 2.2 billion euros. And 1 billion ESA for three hundred thousand low pensioners makes us EUR 3.2 billion. According to HLIOS figures - the great innovation and reform of the insurance policy that your Minister, Mr. President - has stopped the monthly expenditure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u182	Yes, Mr. Brutsi, but now we're opening other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u183	Listen to the number! The monthly cost of insurance is EUR 2.6 billion! By making a simple division, one-and-a-half-a-half pension for each Greek pensioner is cut with a SYRIZA government! It is a simple arithmetic, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u184	Good, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u185	People laugh!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u186	The world's on the streets! He's not laughing and he's waiting for you to go there!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u187	You don't denounce the violence from wherever it comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u188	Please, Mr. Barca!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u189	Lie again!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u190	Go to the world!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u191	Minister, you have the floor for a minute. I would ask you not to go over time, however, because Mr Chakalotos also wants to talk. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u192	I need less than a minute, Mr President. As the Deputy Minister, Mr. Petropoulos, told you, we interfered with the elements of "ELIOS", because they were essentially falsified.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u193	What did you say now? What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u194	By who was falsified?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u195	But...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u196	The D.A. now! Now to the prosecutor, Minister! You're talking about falsified evidence? The data is electronic. The electronic data of the Funds falsified?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Brutsi, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u198	Your irritation can be restrained. Hold on to your irritation! Whatever you are, the House is not a circus!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, it denounces the employees of the Ministry of Labour. The Minister's not making the evidence! Officials are making it up! You said the same thing three months ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u200	Sir, sit down. Calm down! No irritation!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u201	For God's sake! False evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u202	Stop the theater now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u203	Please sit down, Mr. Brutsi! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u204	Well, actually, what we heard from you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u205	You can't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u206	Listen! It's very simple. I don't need a minute, because Mr. Brutsis told us that by 2015 the insurance was hearing and SYRIZA came in and broke it. And he says that others are the liars!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u207	Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos speaks for 10 minutes
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. However, I must say that anyone who deals with politics, particularly in Parliament, never stops learning. It may teach for many years at the university that insurance is a difficult thing, it is like a two hundred, three hundred, four hundred thousand tons that are late to change, because it depends on interest rates, on growth, on the ratio between the insured and the employees, on the replacement rates and all these things, but not. It may be Monday night to see the show "in the inner", on Tuesday morning to listen to the radio and on Tuesday night to listen to the Chief of Officer's Response and say that in six months it's all changed. He may know that in 2014 everything was going well, that we had an insurance policy that was sustainable and SYRIZA came and broke it in six months. He may even know that the IMF and other institutions have never asked the government - since it was so well - to take further measures. Never! And here I have the IMF report - one of these reports Mr Stagioras likes to present to us - in June 2014, which says about the Greek authorities: 'The Greek authorities' at that time were them, so that you don't get confused. "The Greek authorities need to think of new measures," he says on page 18. "The Greek authorities must see 17%, which is the expenditure on insurance, and is 9% and 8% on the average of the rest of Europe." And a English word: 'committed'. The Greek Government has made a commitment, that is to say, that it will bring new measures. That's what the IMF says in June 2014. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, there are elements of ELSTAT, which explain why it was unsustainable in June of '14 measures. So, as far as what I heard on Monday night, what I heard on Tuesday morning and what I heard on Tuesday night, that no new measures were needed, I think you can sue the IMF that she's lying, that she never asked you for new measures, that you don't have to do anything. Not only did he ask for it, but you said 'yes, please'. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] So since insurance is so hard, we're going now to see how we can change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u209	If they're all your friends, why don't you look at them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u210	That's a rhetorical shape, Mr. Voridis. I expect a better argument than you. To answer: Were you committed or weren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u211	We weren't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u212	It's a rhetorical question who the IMF is, whether he's a friend or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u213	Newer evidence, Hardouvel.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u214	You've been chained.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u215	So, because it's a difficult thing to do with insurance, how does one deal with it? In three ways, I think: The first is in class and redistribution, what the Chief of Officer Response told us is class hatred and division. It is the language, I must tell you, Mr Mitsotakis, the American Republicans, not even the language of the European Christian Democracy. It is not even the language, because it has never been a class hatred in Europe. Unless you tell us that when your party, the New Democracy, after the Migration, closed the eye to large - not so large - contractors, to large - and not so large - bankers, to large - and not so large - industrialists, to large - and not so large - doctors, engineers, that was class love. Is that what you're defending? Was it traveling love when you did it? And when we redistribute, is it class hatred? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] He described you, I think, in a very gullible way, because this bill by Mr. Katrugalos has the redistribution. He explained to you why it is different that he has a basic pension from taxation, where the IMF and all the neoliberals are pushing us not to be the basic pension for a citizen's right, but to take it if you do not have enough income. This supports the ideological current that comes with the Chief of Officership. Do you know where this has led? If it has no benefits, some assistance as a citizen, the middle-class finally says: 'Why should I pay more taxes if I don't?' And that's how we get to America, Mr. Mitsotakis, who has had the greatest inequality since 1920. Why? Because the middle layers are constantly not receiving allowances, because only the poor get them, and when the middle layers are weighed, they say, "Let us cut the taxes further." And this vicious circle doesn't end. And that is why we have these great inequalities. We also have a tax system which makes redistribution in the second part, where the rate of replacement is higher for the poor and less for the rich. I'm tired of thirty years of teaching in finances to hear that rich people need more money to have motives to work, and poor people need less money to be able to live. I'm tired! Find another argument! You're a new leader, find a new argument we haven't heard for thirty years. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] However, it is still more serious how the insurance will be solved, because the insurance, as the Prime Minister said, and Mr Katrugalos, cannot be solved by the insurance itself alone. It must also be solved by two important linkages. The first link is the labour market. Greece, I have told you many times, does not have a comparative advantage in low wages, does not have a comparative advantage in part-time wages, in black employment, in employment that you do not know what will bring you the other day. Because all that I said, which began by Mr Simitis in 2000, to liberalise the labour market, does not generate income for the insurance system. If you want money for the insurance system, you want good jobs with good wages. You want a labour market that's controlled, that can't be that tax evasion that doesn't exist. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] So the model here is very important. And tell me, if you disagree on Mr. Hardouvelis's list, would you not have promised the mass redundancies there, Mr. Mitsotakis? Did you have not promised that you would make the lockout so that the labour market would continue to be for the poor, a cliff, which they face daily, who have low wages and who go from low wages to no wages, why are they unemployed and cannot finance the insurance system? Finally, the most important of all is the development model.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u216	It's your dress!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u217	For three - four years we had a development model from the governments of the memorandum before 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u218	Now there isn't!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u219	You said: 'We will wait for investments'. How are the investments coming, Mr. Bourra? You said: "Here are the workers, we have destroyed their employment relationships, we have reduced wages, you private investors come to invest whenever you want, when you want, in any way you want, wherever you want." And that's why investors didn't come because they know that this doesn't create a development model.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u220	Now you close the Squirrels and they're coming!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u221	What creates a development model is when you have development tools, when you have cooperative banks, when you have a development bank, when you have a social economy and new institutions and ideas, when you have decided where the private sector should invest, where the public, where the social community, how you will create the training of workers in specific areas, how there will be interaction between investors and society.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u222	Why don't you do it? What do you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u223	This is a development model. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say one thing and I will end, and I will be the only one, I think - together with Mr Theodorakis, not to blame him - for being in time. The development, the labour market, the insurance is part of a vision of a society. One vision is that equality can go with effectiveness. One vision is that the pie shouldn't grow before we split it. One vision is that workers and workers are the wealth of this country. One vision is that the environment of this country cannot destroy it. And this vision is a precondition for making insurance sustainable and not hitting labour relations, not hitting wages, not reducing pensions. I think the difference is crystal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much to the Minister. We're entering the secondary cycle. I would ask the Prime Minister very much, Mr Alexio Tsipras, to have the floor to answer for up to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis, it was your maiden speech as Head of Parliament. I would therefore like to begin by congratulating you and thanking you, because, at last, there will be clean differences and clean ideological dividing lines between the government and the opposition! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You were indeed very clear, diverse, clean, extreme neoliberal, but clean neoliberal, extremely neoliberal. Indeed, as far as I have asked you, you have responded without spins. I asked you whether you would agree with the proposal that we tabled and the agreement we had with employers for a small increase in employers' contributions by 1%, so that we do not have pension cuts for a tenth, twelfth time, which have already been reduced by 35%, and you replied clearly that you do not agree with the increase in employers' contributions, which the employers themselves agree. And I asked you to tell me what your proposal is, what your plan is, how you imagine, what your vision of an insurance reform is, since we agree on something, that our insurance system is unsustainable. And what did you testify to the Greek Parliament? Private insurance. In other words, at a time when the world does not have to pay the insurance contributions to the insurance funds, you would suggest to him that he pays private insurance, pension cuts, obviously, since you are against the small increase in employers' contributions. What else did you suggest? Application of the zero deficit clause. In other words, for people to understand, 70% of supplementary pensions - cutting supplementary pensions, that is what you suggested - new cuts. What else did you suggest? Your vision? Reductions in the salaries of civil servants, all you ask to do is to have a brief dialogue, because we, you said, have given increases. And what else, when he was waiting for you, perhaps with anguish, may our parliamentary group say something about farmers? Thirty-five Members signed in favour of mobilisation. What did you suggest? Clearance of insurance contributions to the OGA with farmers' subsidies! In other words, these people, who are now on the blocks, have a chance to get something, which is subsidies, and we are struggling to ensure that these subsidies are not taxed, and you have proposed that they be offset by their contributions. That's what you suggested! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] What else can I say? I sincerely thank you, because the dialogue will be catastrophic and our ideological differences will be distinctive to the entire Greek people. And you don't chew your words and your goodness! I asked you, the other day, to speak. Because it is not possible with the blocs and the positions of the most extreme lenders. I had also used a form of speech: either to 'block or to the IMF'. Today you were clear that your views are identical to the most extreme positions among lenders. And I would really like to say that this is good for SYRIZA, but it is not good for the place. And it's not good for the place, because we're going to a negotiation. The peculiarity we have at this time is that we are still under surveillance, we have still not managed to regain our sovereignty, and so the elected government is proposing or what the Greek people will vote for, if we have not yet approved the quartet, a quartet that disagrees with each other, a quartet where there are different opinions that we fear and say 'no further delays'. And while everyone knows what the different views are, we have a Civic Opposition that comes and is actually placed in Parliament, taking the positions, the most extreme in this quartet. In other words, I would like to say a few words about this, with the view of the International Monetary Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to substantiate what I say and do not want to say in the air. Why, Mr Mitsotakis, what we have heard today - your disagreement with the increase in employers' contributions in order to avoid supplementary pension cuts - is an argument that is wasteful? Be careful, you had reduced 3.9% two years ago, and we did not see any increase in competitiveness. On the contrary, we have seen an increase in unemployment over the years you have been in governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u226	He's fallen on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u227	I'll tell you, I'll answer you. Yes, he fell, Mr. Brutsi. You should see the numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u228	I see the numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u229	But that is not a new argument. The argument that the problem of competitiveness is labour costs comes from the fathers of neoliberalism. We know that well. He's got a problem. It's wrong. Just take a look at the global economic forum competitiveness list. You will see that the first countries to competitiveness in the world economy are the countries with the highest wage and insurance costs. Countries with strong and expensive social protection systems are first in competitiveness. On the contrary, the last on the competitiveness list is those countries that do not have labour laws, where there is the ultimate jungle of neoliberalism, which is your ideology, Mr Mitsotakis. That's the reality. The Nordic countries and the countries of the north of Europe are first in competitiveness, which have a strong social state and protection. Because the problem of competitiveness of the Greek economy is not wages and insurance contributions. And it never was. That is why you have done nothing by slapping wages and reducing pensions, by cutting social costs. Because the problem of Greece and the competitiveness of its economy is bureaucracy, it is high corruption, it is the instability of the tax system, it is the privileged relationships of a handful of oligarchs, who in recent years and especially the years of the crisis through their involvement with political power have done what they wanted and with subsidies previously and with lending by state banks. These were the problems of competitiveness. In short, the problem with the competitiveness of the economy was the state that you, your governments, the PASOK and the New Democracy have created. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So I heard again - to answer the questions put again and again: The insurance - you said - was viable by 2060. And then SYRIZA came. Be careful, this is an argument - which we truly thank you for saying - which cannot be believed to anyone in this place who has an elementary logic. So, what are you telling us? You tell us that the insurance funds and the stock exchange party did not hit either later, nor the structured bonds, of course, the destructive PSI with the 13 billion, nor, of course, the deinvestment of 15% in the five years of your service, nor the increase from 7% to 25% of unemployment. And what was it? SYRIZA's six-month negotiation. That is why the insurance system has become unsustainable. Repeat this argument often. It's really good for us. But it is not good for the credibility of political controversy. You said, Mr. Mitsotakis, that we should give in to you to speak truths. Indeed. You can tell truths. Well, let's see. You said that we in these six months "increased unemployment and destroyed the economy". Unemployment in January 2015 was 25.9%. Today is 24.4%. It's decreased by 1.5%. Are we celebrating for this? We're not celebrating, it's extremely high. But the numbers reflect a reality. And this reality, even 1.5%, is a hundred thousand jobs. Despite the capital controls, despite the hard negotiation. Who ruined the economy? You took unemployment from 7% to 25%. Who ruined the economy? You made predictions that we would have a recession in 2015. In July you said 4%, later you went to 2%. The reality is that the recession was the smallest possible one to calculate, at 0%, stagnation. We have no recession, and in six months we will be in development, if we are certainly able to pass the first assessment successfully and if there are no delays. The economy, once again, runs to rise up and we all have to put back on the economy to rise, but there are all these signs. So why are you saying that we have destroyed the economy? Of course, compare supposed benefits with growth forecasts that are certainly not given. Do you want me to mention here what forecasts have been made from 2010 to 2015? I remember that Mr Papaconstantinou in 2010 told us that in six months we are going to growth, which we have not seen with binoculars in all these years. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the weaknesses and difficulties, the country managed in a year with capital control and a tough negotiation to go beyond the target of the budget that you voted for 2015, namely revenue, by EUR 1.9 billion, and thus the estimate that we would have a primary deficit in 2015 by 0.25% is now being revised and closed with a primary surplus of 0.4%. Is that the big disaster in the economy, when you poured 50 billion euros riches over five years? The country closed in 2015 for the first time in its history with the first in the absorption of the NSRP. Why, Mr Mitsotakis, has the country been last in the European Union for twenty-eight years in the absorption of the NSRP? Is this related to the "logues" and to customer relations?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u230	Quiet, please. We listen very carefully. Go on, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u231	The Minister for Finance replied to this notorious argument. What argument? That there was no demand from lenders for 1.8 billion cuts in social security expenditure, and that suddenly the lenders discovered it in the negotiation we made. We got mad at them for negotiating. You who didn't, you didn't get mad at them, and they were good at you. These cannot stand, because they come undisputedly, and they are being dismantled. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, replied on the report of the International Monetary Fund in June 2014, which said that by October 2014 your government was obliged to table a proposal on the radical overthrow of the insurance company to reduce costs. Of course, I also told you in my first speech - you did not take it into account and you did not answer, I hope you will now reply - that you were committed by the medium-term you voted on, so that there would be a reduction in social security expenditure. Indeed, the budget that we voted for 2016 provides for much more expenditure on insurance than the medium term that you voted on in 2014. You had, in other words, not just pressure from the lenders, but you had already incorporated and included the pressures in the mid-term vote that you voted here in the House. Is it possible to come with such arguments? Six months have been fighting, and since the first day we were fighting this negotiation, this was demanding, 1% cut and the immediate implementation of the zero deficit clause. Is it possible to say that we suddenly damaged and brought requirements for reductions in pensions that were not in place before? Of course, what can I say? All the time you want us to make the debate on public administration, all the time you want us to do, and the dialogue on the wages of civil servants. I hope that there would be a wider consensus in a rationalisation adopted by the institutions. But I've heard something lately because some people are leaking. I don't know if they're real. Some people are leaking, he says, that the International Monetary Fund wants us to see the payroll again, but it is probably not the International Monetary Fund. I guess you guys want to see it again. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You come here with a negative proposal for what is good and good for the workers. At any time, then, I am at your disposal. But I would like to close with something that, in my view, is of particular importance, because it goes a great deal to us to do moral lessons, for our moral advantage. Mr Mitsotakis, I won't talk about the old - we all know it, we don't have to go there - but in the years of the PASOK - New Democracy, Samara - Venizelos. You are talking about post-call officials, of course you are referring to temporary employees who both Members and Mayors and Ministers have and are the trusted people, the closest partners. So, what do you want in relation to this? Can we now open a debate who each chooses? It doesn't interest you, but it doesn't make any sense. I'll tell you what. Mr Leventis, listen to it too, because you refer to these elements and have an interest in knowing. In January 2015 the posted officials of the Samara - Venizelou government were a thousand hundred and ninety - seven. Today, post-mortem employees don't exceed six hundred forty. Mr. Mitsotakis, when you were Minister of Administrative Reform, you had fifty a poster. Life to have. Today, the Minister of Administrative Reform, Mr. Bernardakis, has only two. What moral advantage, then, do you speak of what we have allegedly lost? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But you come here and don't, of course, care to judge your work and your own deposit, because the whole dunia knows about it. One is your aim, to say 'all the same'. Well, we're not all the same. And I'll tell you something. Today they saw the light of publicity in a daily Athenian newspaper about the scientific way in which the Samara - Venizelos government progressed in plundering and partisanism of the state. Do you disprove or confirm this evidence? The first thing SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence did was to go to a logic. Most peripherals are not SYRIZA or ANEL and - if you like - the first thing we would like to do would be to put parties. And yet, we abolished that logic and put the coordinators through the hierarchy of public administration through them. How did you put them? Seven New Democracy, four PASOKs, two DIMARs. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You criticised us and made war - and indeed, of course, in cooperation with your companions from the modernist centre - that we went to hospitals as'shoppers' and abolished the amalgamation which was the administrations you had put in. While, what exactly did we do? We have also asked, in cooperation with the troika, for an evaluation committee to assess what you have put into it. And this evaluation committee evaluated...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u232	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u233	Don't interrupt. I'll see you today. Don't shout, I'll see you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u234	Please stop. Don't react, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u235	So this evaluation committee, which was neutral, with people not from SYRIZA and the government - the Vice-President of the SAAP is not SYRIZA - with university professors - who were not SYRIZA - who persecuted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u236	You have persecuted those who have been judged appropriate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u237	You're gonna listen now. Wait, Vorides!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Voridis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u239	Don't rush, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u240	Stop! Please don't exterminate yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u241	So the fifty and two of them were judged to remain in place. The rest will be chosen by means of a call of interest by merital procedures and not by party offices. What did you do in 2012? So here's what you did: Distribution of empty positions of hospital governors. The hospitals were allocated to three categories: large and medium-sized hospitals. The ratio based on 4, 2, 1. This means: at the large hospitals: 3 New Democracy, 2 PASOK, 1 DIMAR. In the middle hospitals: 3 New Democracy, 1 PASOK, 1 DIMAR. So you're the one who put commanders in hospitals in 2012. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I ask you to deny it. To say a few more things, because in this place no one is judged of the sins of his ancestors. I never enter that logic. He's judged for his ideas and his actions. So, Mr Mitsotakis, when you were Minister for Administrative Reform and you had these fifty posters, what exactly did you do, except to proceed to a wage freeze and redundancies of civil servants? With the evaluation arrangements, which provide for compulsory negative assessment at 15%, you have created the absolute chaos in the public sector: schools, hospitals, administrative services. Apart from that, however, in one night you decided very close to the election, when we saw political change, to change by your own decision all the directors-general, over two hundred directors-general, to the ministries, to put people of your own party choice. So, is that worthy of democracy in public administration? So answer us if it is or isn't like that. They were people judged by servants' councils. So now we're coming and we're tabling a bill. I'm closing this, Mr. President. This bill says that we must finally stop, not politicisation, but partyisation in public administration. And what exactly does he say? That there should be a two-way assessment of the staff of public administration - not the poster - of those people who make critical decisions in the public sector. And what exactly do we make? The national register of civil servants. Furthermore, apart from the aptitude of evaluation, which will not interfere with the parties' offices of governments or parties, we are building the institution for the first time of the Secretary-General, so that when a minister or government leaves there will be an institutional memory and continuity. You never dared that. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm asking you? Will you vote for this large section? Will you come with us? But you're not a reformer either. You're a reformer Yaladzie, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u242	Good, there's no need for screaming. So far, applause. The Chief of Staff and Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u243	Prime Minister, I have followed with great interest your attempt to identify me and identify us with the International Monetary Fund and with the lenders. I answer you directly. With the lenders, it's you who signed a third memorandum. Things are so simple. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The third memorandum was unnecessarily inappropriate and you have worn it to us and you have committed the country for another three years. And since you are referring to the IMF, let me highlight your ambiguity in relation to the relationship between Greece and the International Monetary Fund. I would remind you, since the dear Minister for Finance is here, Mr Chakalotos, of the letter you sent to the International Monetary Fund dated 23-7-215. So I read in English you will allow me: "We would like to inform you that we are looking at a new lawn reality from the International Monetary Fund. We look forward to continued cooperation with the Fund".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u244	Please, be quiet! Mr. Mitsotakis, I would ask you, for the Greek Minutes, to say what you said in Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u245	So I quote: 'We would like to inform you that we are calling for a new loan from the International Monetary Fund and look forward to continuing cooperation'. So in Greek, Mr President. As we would say in English, because you are learners, "it is the IMF, Euclid". I give you the letter in question. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, you have told us in the meantime, Mr Tsipras, that you do not want the participation of the International Monetary Fund to finally withdraw all of what you have said and to confirm what you have signed, that, of course, the International Monetary Fund is still taking part in the third programme, which you have negotiated and signed. I was impressed that you insisted so much on the, in your view, excellent performances of the Greek economy in 2015. This must be as soon as possible an awkward as we have heard in the Chamber today. For example, the 2015 tax revenues are EUR 750 million under 2014 and this has imposed additional tax measures of EUR 1 billion. Where do you see her exactly the success? Is that a triumph? Should we talk about public debts to the private sector, which increased over a year by 65%? Is that a triumph too? I will not speak today in detail about the "superior" negotiation that you have made in the first half of 2015. The time will come for this debate, where you will also have to answer directly, what you really knew from what Mr Varoufakis said to us and from what other Ministers of yours have leaked. But it's not here. Do not, however, think that these questions will remain unanswered. For many things have been said, which you have not answered. But their time will come. We won't talk about it today. You told me in your speech, which you did two days ago, to choose whether to be with the tractors or the International Monetary Fund. I'm answering that I'm not with the tractors or the IMF. You were with the tractors until you went with the IMF. Things are very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u246	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u247	Of course, I can't comment on a subject...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u248	Wait a minute, Mr. President. We're tired, in general. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, do not interrupt Mr Mitsotakis. This is the third time you've done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u250	But is that possible? I'll do it as many times as they interrupt him to support him. You haven't figured it out yet? Mr. Mitsotakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u251	I personally, Mr President, feel very restful and refreshed and not tired. I have seen you in your last public positions - you have avoided saying this today, but you said it two days ago, and I would like to answer it - that you accused me of being elected to the northern suburbs, apparently implying that I have a class preference in upper income. So I remind you of this. I am five times elected MP in 2nd Athens, the first three times. I remind you that the second Athens is not only Kifisia and Ekali, it is Peristeri and Agia Varvara and Liosia and Ilioon and Moschato. I would also remind you that I was elected President of the New Democracy with a hundred thousand votes in an open democratic election. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If you hadn't made this personal report, you wouldn't have forced me to remind you that you at thirty-three got the ring from Mr. Alavanos and then you were elected by a conference of eight hundred people. I therefore ask you not to question my democratic legitimacy! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come to the issues you have raised. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ladies and gentlemen, I do not imagine you question the truth of what I am saying. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Good. We are now going on subsidiary insurance issues. Mr President, Prime Minister, I imagine you know that subsidiary insurance by its very nature is bilateral. It is financed by workers and employers, contrary to main insurance, which is tripartite, universal, public and compulsory. The zero deficit clause says nothing but the reality that supplementary pensions must be covered by the contributions of workers and employers. It is absolute justice, absolute transparency and the only way to ensure that future generations also receive supplementary pensions. And you, who are being cut so much for supplementary pensions, have not already cut the supplementary pensions by 6%? Am I wrong? Did Mr. Flamouraris, who is here, not speak public about a 20% reduction in supplementary pensions? And this sustainability clause, to which you refer, will you at some point bother to explain exactly what it is? Let us therefore speak, Mr Tsipras, with open papers. Yes, we insist on the zero-duty clause for supplementary pensions, because it is a fair and proper measure. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you made a reference to your prototype, which I found interesting, about the grants of the insurance funds and what we predicted as the New Democracy in the mid-term of 2015-2018. You said that we were providing a grant of 9.6 billion when you predicted 10 billion and something. I'm afraid you're reading the wrong column in the relevant text. You referred to the basic scenario and not to the medium-term. In the medium term, there was a grant of 11.1 billion. I would advise your partners to be a little more careful next time. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now we're going to the most thorny issue. Did the troika really ask for additional measures, Mr Tsakaloto and Mr Tsipras, when we completed the negotiation? I have here - and I will submit to the Minutes - a revulsion that I have isolated on the Troika text dated 10 December 2014 - I imagine that if you searched it in your files, you will find it - where very specific reference is made - 'committed', Mr Tsakalotos - on two things: the integration of insurance funds and the abolition of early pensions. No mention at all of supplementary budget...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u252	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u253	Oh, no. That's a little later. The aftermath is worthy, Mr. Chakaloto. It's six months later. You got a little messed up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u254	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u255	Please, Mr. Georgiades! Do not write anything in the Minutes. Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u256	You got a little messed up. And I would remind you, Mr Chakaloto, that the state of play is about the troika as a whole and not just the International Monetary Fund. It's basically these. You should know them as the Minister of Finance. I now come to some specific remarks. You spoke, Mr Katrugale, and indeed here I am concerned about the re-entry issue. You shouldn't be talking about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u257	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u258	Because you have not yet given any answers to the private contract with 12% submitted in this Chamber. So you should be a little more careful about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u259	Then I'll ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u260	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u261	From there on, you spoke about hospitals and the notorious Evaluation Committee, which allegedly made an objective and remarkable analysis of the qualifications of hospital managers. I have a question: why have commanders been prosecuted out of evaluation? This is a mystery. You either have an evaluation committee, or you don't. It is clear that in the hospitals you sought to make a party clearance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u262	Your party choices.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u263	When I spoke to you before - and I understand that this debate on the moral advantage bothers you very much - I have never acknowledged, Mr Tsipras, that we have also been appointed on party criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u264	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u265	I did not hide it, and I dare say that I was also one of those who, in an unsubstantiated time before I became Minister, criticised the logic of quotas. But when you come and do exactly the same and worse, do not invoke differential and moral advantage. That is what I am saying and I am quite clear. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I wonder who writes you or who tells you, in any case, what you said about the Directors-General and their evaluation and selection system. Let me remind you that you have found a law adopted for the selection of directors, directors and divisions with merital criteria. We voted for this law...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u266	After you assigned them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u267	No, wait a minute. We voted for this law...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u268	After you nominated them without criteria, you passed the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Femmelle, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u270	No, you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u271	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u272	You know that for at least four years there were appointed directors with transitional provisions, and that is exactly what we wanted to cure. So I ask, Mr Tsipras: what have you done a year? A year, don't you rule or I'm wrong? Why did you not apply the law or, in any case, if that law did not, why did you not change it? Why did you wait a year? And now you're asking us to change? We had launched the selection of directors with merital criteria. You stopped her. You had every chance of changing the law. You're now bringing in a law. I will tell you openly, so that the Chamber and the National Representation do not think that we disagree vertically with everything, that I see in the bill and several positive elements: Continuing proposals for reforms that I have implemented. It is a good thing that we can also find a common area of understanding on these issues, but in any case you cannot ask us to change when a year you have delayed doing anything. I shall close, Mr President, because I am abusing the time of dentistry. I am afraid, Prime Minister, that there has been a debate again which, at least on your behalf, had no evidence. And today you cannot quantify the interventions you are proposing. I find it interesting that Mr Katrugalos says that the troika sends quantified evidence. Why don't you testify to the National Representation? Why don't you tell us what you're planning to collect from the increases in employers' contributions to the freelance professionals? Why are you hiding it? You give it to the troika and you don't tell the House? Well, that's my impression at least. One thing is certain. I guess I surprised you on my protology. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] You're amazed as far as I can see. You had anticipated that the New Democracy would not table any proposal. We, Mr Tsipras, have the courage to think. As much as you try to enclose us ideologically, you will know that our proposals are always addressed to the silent majority of society. You'll also know that, in order for you to be able to share wealth first, you'll have to create it first. And if I wait for Mr. Tsakalotus with his neo-marxist ideologies to create wealth, I'm afraid I'll wait too long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u274	Before Mr. Michaloliacos gets the floor, Mr. Katrugalos will be given the floor on staff. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, you have indeed surprised me negatively. I expected that the young man, like you, who takes over an important party such as the New Democracy, would have confidence in his ideas and would not have resorted to a repetition of a slander that has collapsed and even those who have swallowed it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] As you know - or if you don't know, I had a trial against my slanders on January 7th. The slanders demanded postponement for three days after the trial, on January 10th, at the "BIMA" published in a single post that they asked for the postponement, because their publication contained untruths and inaccuracies in order to revive them. You have made multiple inadmissibility in the past, referring to this slander and now repeat it from a post that you are not allowed, because you are no longer Kyriakos Mitsotakis, you are the Chief of Staff and you must always operate in a way that respects the institution that you represent. I also owe you an answer because it took a year for this government to change the "natives" from you directors and directors-general...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u276	Minister, you'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, this is personal. I'm just asking for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u278	You'll include it in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u279	All right, I'll say it in my second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u280	Thank you. Mr. Michalokou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great interest...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u282	Mr. Michalokoo, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u283	Yeah, I'm waiting. I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u284	Please to the New Democracy. Quiet! Mr. Voridis, Mr. Chakaloto, please. Mr. Michalop, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great interest to the conflict between the Government and the Civilian Opposition who is and who is not with the International Monetary Fund. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, four years when you confronted the Memorandum, were you not with the International Monetary Fund? Who were you with? I know that in fact, where the International Monetary Fund goes, it leaves behind. And that's what's happening. However, I would like to make a reference to what Mr Tsakalotos said about the creation of a Development Bank. The House should know that in terms of competitiveness Greece is in the eighteenth first place under Botswana, Rwanda and Tajikistan. Greece became the policy of the memoranda, which, unfortunately, continues to be the subject of SYRIZA. Mr Mitsotakis said - to mention him first - that there should be no party state. I do not know how he spoke, as a Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who would like to fire hundreds of thousands of civil servants, or as President of the New Democracy who has appointed from 1974 to today millions? The poet says: “Public officials are all melting and ending like columns two - two in the offices. Electricians will be the State and Death that renews them." But there is one flaw in the civil service: they are not so grateful to those who appointed them, because otherwise now the New Democracy would get 40% and 40% of the PASOK. And you as a SYRIZA, since you inherited them as an election client, are striving to take care of them. I have no doubt that within the framework of neoliberalism, which he - and he has publicly stated - Mr Mitsotakis would like the total abolition of the Greek state, including the Armed Forces and their replacement with some security company. I heard their objections about the insurance bill. They are not entitled to object. All these things were prerequisites on August 14th. And what they say 'we did it to stay in the euro and not to blame for further crime' is words of the air. Then they voted for it all. It was ninety-seven pages. As far as insurance is concerned, we did not see any specific legislation being tabled today. Because a lot of people through the government are well aware of the Leninist tactics, I see some improvements coming. Two steps forward, one step back. We have seen this in previous discussions and in previous legislation. Mr Mitsotakis also said that private insurance should be given weight. This reminds me of the United States' social jungle, where there is no public insurance, there is only private insurance. That's where we want things to go? The complete dissolution of the social state? As we speak of insurance, let us not forget the 'black' work. And SYRIZA has responsibilities in this respect: there was a law that provided a fine for anyone who employs uninsured from 3,000 to 5,000 euros. That fine only made 150 euros. In essence, you have left black work free. Of course, in order to return to what Mr Tsakalotos said about development, Mr Drasakis had spoken in the past, and he had said of a parallel banking system. You've been running for a year and we haven't seen any development bank being set up. It's a ghost. I wish it would come true. Very positive in all cases for there to be ministerial secretary-general so that the state does not fall apart when governments change and the pencils fall down when elections are proclaimed, because this is what is happening in Greece. We have the example of one of our neighbours, Italy, which for years had elections every six months and changed governments, but the state continued to operate. Why was it working? Because exactly there was a state mechanism. This state mechanism, both the New Democracy and the PASOK, had it for decades, for forty years as a party mechanism. You spoke as government by Prime Minister Tsipras's mouth about redistribution. I don't see any redistribution being made. We see rich people becoming richer and poorer. The final slogan is 'all poor'. Why else does it mean when we say we have a national pension of EUR 384? What man can live today with 384 euros? He also made some references to the government - you are ruling together - Mr. Kammenos for the Armed Forces, which, in fact, both the previous governments of the Memorandum and yours, have led them to tolerance, to hunger, and are suffering the men of the Armed Forces. That's a reality. Even the decision of the Council of State to return to income in 2012 has not been respected and you have not implemented it. I would also like to say that the insurance bill, which you are tabling, is going to fail. And it is going to fail, not because it is a bad piece of legislation on its own, but because it is going to generally fail the policy of the memorandum, as long as there is this horror debt and it is not denounced, which is by definition a burden. When's a debt worthless? When it has been taken not for the benefit of the people. When Mr Nikoloudis was here in these government headquarters, he had denounced that public works in Greece, the roads, etc., were made at a price five times higher than the prices that exist on average in the European Union. Have you sought responsibility for this waste from the people who took that money? When there are open trials, data mists, we get them at twice and three times the price, did you do anything? Oh, no. Again, of course, it is the Law on Responsibility of Ministers. We have also heard from the Prime Minister that we will not receive tax from the unemployed. That's unprecedented. So you want them to be unemployed and take taxes? The insurance is not going to be solved. If the one-and-a-half million Greeks who are currently in unemployment paid premiums every month, the lowest premium possible, we would have earned six billion euros a year. It could be solved. And of course, there is the PSI crime, but there is no complaint from the guilty party. You are not responsible as SYRIZA. PASOK and New Democracy are. Why don't you open the PSI file? Why at last did the government, when it negotiated, not say that this is Greek workers' money to be excluded from the PSI? You didn't do any of this. You say you will not reduce pensions, but a few days ago Mr Kotzias gave an interview to a German newspaper, in which he said that for refugees and illegal immigrants he was wasted, spent, if you like, the Greek state of EUR 2,000,000. He specifically said: "For us 2,000,000 euros is too much money. It is, in fact, more than it will bring - heed his words - the pension cuts that the troika now imposes on us." We are being imposed by the Troika, by your Minister, and you say that pensions will not be reduced. The farmers are extinguished. So it is for granted that the Prime Minister does not wonder why they do not agree to discuss with him. There is no room for discussion, since the third memorandum has still to be taken into account. If you want to go further, the agricultural and livestock production of Greece has been decided since joining the European Union and remember the early retirement of farmers. Right now, what you have to do is withdraw this bill, never file it. Doctors and lawyers will close their offices, farmers are on the block. There on the roadblocks the heart of Greece, which insists on the memorials and is incompatible with the left-hand side and words of the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u286	Thank you. The President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Fotini, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u287	Ladies and gentlemen, in his denunciation the Prime Minister did not tell us a single word about insurance. You came here to polarize, to play the "The two strangers" project with Mr. Mitsotakis. Mr. Mitsotakis stung and followed you, and unfortunately you were both lost in the translation. Point two. We'll stay away from your cohort fights. We have come here with proposals and we have not heard any answer to them. We've heard inaccurateness and lies. Mr Tsakalotos said that the pensioners of 800 or 1,000 euros a month are rich, that the lawyers of 10,000 euros a year or the farmers of 12 000 euros a year are rich, that the beneficiaries of the CSCE that cut their pensions are rich. Neither little nor much have we heard that you are giving increases. Uh, but then why are you interfering? Why are you telling us the insurance is in danger? As for team redundancies, I would like to remind you that we vetoed. I'm afraid the Minister has lost the ball. Point 3. We will insist, because now that progressive citizens are aware that SYRIZA has not been and will not replace the democratic party, now that the right-wing, supposedly reformist this time, is being directed, we will stand next to the citizens, who have been deceived, who are fighting, who are struggling, but we will also stand against all logic of populism and division. Point 4. The country cannot withstand a new division. He can't stand any more squares of hatred. It cannot withstand extremisms and designations for traitors and mixtures. Greeks and Greek women are struggling and asking for consultation. We must reconvene on the way to tomorrow with our differences, yes, but with good will and common goals. This is the challenge we have ahead, building and not tearing down bridges. Fifth point. As far as we are concerned, we express our complete opposition to the equalisation proposals made by the International Monetary Fund. We were also under pressure and blackmail in the past, and then you undermined us. We now offer you a different attitude, and with this attitude we have a negotiating attitude, if you please, and finally have the ability to negotiate seriously in favour of the interests of the Greek people. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Prime Minister, you have a hundred and fifty three Members. If you believe that these disastrous arrangements must go ahead, here is Rhodes. Vote them. You will be judged by history and by the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much, Madam President. The speech is given by the Secretary-General and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsoubas for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u289	Same old-fashioned, same old-fashioned. The New Democracy is the same and invariable from the past. SYRIZA is the same and unchanged as PASOK, with the old PASOK having all the bad huyas of the old PASOK, of the past. The polluter is going to set up again, although it looks more like a prank this time. New chicken battles are set for the nest of Maximus, for who will sit first, second, today, tomorrow, later in the government chair. That is the essence, the controversy of who will sit on the neck of the people. It is a pointless debate on a state which is already rotten and corrupt, which is corrupting even those who have some elementary honesty before they come to the chair of power, which also loses their honesty and any good intention. That's why you've been going for a year now, ladies and gentlemen of the government - two, three of you are here today, right now, but anyway - from evil to worse and you're more and more like your supposed opponents. The government's proposal for the insurance system in any form whatsoever is not an extra insurance law next to the previous ones, that is, it is not just a sum of them, but we must actually talk about it - and that is how the Greek people must understand - for a direct firing law that scans the core of the socio-security system, which we have met up to these days, particularly in the previous century. The total attack on people's rights shows that the conquests of workers in the farm system are under constant question, so they are temporary. If the capital finds you unreadable, it'll distract these conquests next time. The government is trying to mislead, in every way, the most reactionary form of the Loverd and Kutruman law that it brings, since there was talk in the prototypes before. With paintings scattering in the media, it matches the laws of 2010 with today, to show that the current government proposal is better and fairer. But what doesn't he say? That today pensions are not counted by this law but by previous people. How the application of the Law of Loverdos from 1-1-2015 took an extension to come now, one year later, with a SYRIZA government in a more reactionary direction. The government is lying consciously. It does not estimate that during these five years, that is, the time that it compares with individual aspects of the laws - since the basic architecture remains unchanged - the people's income from the pensions was defeated by total reductions of about 40%. And ultimately what do we hear here today? We have heard both New Democracy and the PASOK demand that this law, which is based on laws which have been eleven times in the past, reduce pensions and actually ask for them to be cut again. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that the SYRIZA Government is preparing to bring - and what is foreseen - does not get better. It cannot be corrected by individual proposals, with individual amendments. The only position which serves the interests of private and public workers, farmers, self-employed people in the country affected by this law, which literally incorporates social security rights, is that of withdrawing, not even coming to a debate in this House. That is what we say from day one, that is what the working people's movement wants, that is what farmers are asking for in the blocks, and that is what all the workers who are currently protesting and who have just been protesting outside this House are asking for. This objective can only be achieved if a palal movement of popular uproot is truly formed. The development of such a movement requires determination and a planned struggle. The pan-laboratory, pan-lingual strike on February 4 must be and can be such a battle, and this case must be done within the workplace, a case of every union, every body, every worker and every people's family. On agricultural blocks across the country, we must express our full solidarity, the solidarity of all the social strata and all the branches, against the theories of social automation, against the admonitions and pressures, both from the SYRIZA - ANEL and from the Civic Opposition and other parties, who want to control and impose even the forms of struggle that workers and farmers will use to serve their fairness. The Greek people must know that there are forces, political parties and trade unions who do not want this generalised struggle for the withdrawal of the bill. They condemn it in words but in practice it is confined to a painless protest, suggesting above the same as the government, or only want to strengthen their opposition position towards the government. The other political parties believe that they are not against the substance of the bill. Besides, this bill - we insist! - is based on their own works, their own laws, which the SYRIZA Government is now required to complete. They have the same starting point. The arguments of both Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras have the same basis. Therefore, it needs to open a clean front with all these forces. Everyone has to get in, get in front of our responsibilities. That is what we say, mainly by addressing the Greek people. The struggle for the withdrawal of the bill is undoubtedly linked to the prospect of solving the problem. Around this issue there are positions and hostile to the real people's interests, positions that confuse workers, trap them in a new dead end, sow confusion. In our opinion, the starting point for the positions that really serve the people, its interests and the subject of dispute must be the following clear issues: Firstly, workers do not resign from claiming a modern and integrated social security and pension system, which includes free health and welfare for the people's layers, with the necessary state infrastructure, with adequate human resources, appropriate means, decent pensions and not work to the deep ageing. No one should give up on the claim that all the losses of their income be covered on a course, and that of the years of the crisis, on the basis of today's, modern needs. We must not retreat from the requirement to abolish all reinsurance laws, restrictions on medical treatment. Secondly, and at the same time, we must demand decent wages and wages, human working conditions, guaranteed rights through collective agreements. All the laws that have led to labour relations in the present jungle must be invalidated, not to pass the plan for collective redundancies on the stools, to protect the unemployed, for as long as their unemployment lasts, to develop the fight to guarantee permanent, stable work for all and in the prospect of overthrowing this system. These demands are basic conditions for workers to escape or face their poverty, to ensure human life. The resulting problem concerns the financing and safeguarding of these requests. The only answer here, in our opinion, which responds to the people's real interests is only one: to pay the big capital, to pay their state. There can be no other solution today. Either it pays the capital or the workers are constantly driven to impoverishment and to bigger deadlocks. The Greek people are working, they produce this wealth. So the people are to be justified and in this struggle the JRC will give all its powers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. Kutsuba. The President of the Potami Parliamentary Group, Mr Stavros Theodorakis, has the floor for a period of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u291	I usually speak much less than the time I get. You mentioned, Mr Tsipras, your moral advantage. These days of what they're revealing? I would like you to have a minimum awareness of reality. You blame your political opponents for demagogy and you speak of trade union and clientele arrangements. But there was no social group in which you did not promise the sky with the stars. I don't know if you had the time, this anniversary, this weekend, to watch some of the videos that were playing on social media. This dynamic reassurance to the Evros "with us the Greek people will never pay again" has broken every record. So don't behave, Prime Minister, as a medieval monk. You have the gift, the grand gift to lie and not to be red, but don't overdo it. You say you've reduced the poster. The official census site announces on 31-12-2015 a thousand nine hundred posters, in 2014 there were a thousand eight hundred eighty eighty eighty. Since when is half a thousand nine hundred and eighty eighty?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u292	Now you copy the "CORDER THEME" that has fake evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u293	No, no, I copy, Prime Minister, the Census.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u294	You duplicate the ‘ORIGINAL’. You have a line from the ‘ORIGINATION’.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u295	No, no. Open it, see the data on the official website.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u296	Inside them are the convicts of the mayors, the MPs and all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u297	But allow me. Our proposal, Mr Tsipras - I do not know if you followed it before, in my prototype - is very simple. There is a law of 1985, the law of Mr Tsohatzopoulos, which transformed political offices into public agencies. So we invite you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u298	Excuse me a minute, Mr. Theodorakis. Please be quiet. Mr. Theocharis and Mrs. Stuboulis are fighting. Stop, please. Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u299	We therefore have a specific proposal - and to the parties that have been ruling and who have been engaged in party recruitment and to SYRIZA - to abolish all of us together the 1985 Chochatzopoulou Act, which turns political offices into public services, to limit to the minimum, to the Cyprus model which each minister has the opportunity to have a consultant and a secretary, a perfect one. No army of advisors. The rest of them wanted by the public. Our proposal is specific, to work together on a new publicity. We will not, of course, apologise for the figure '4-2-1'. We didn't share and we won't share in such shapes. But if you and you who ruled are determined for a public that the parties will be outside, which will not be the civil servants of the deep party state, we are here and will give this battle. But let me say this because you referred to this moral advantage. Our minds go to those you have on your side, Mr. Tsipras, the young men who, while participating in all the major post-multiple parties, now as repentant and rich, have, of course, found shelter in your yard. I do not want to make recommendations to you and personalise this debate at the moment, but you will allow me to tell you that it is not only Greece, that is, the great executive of the 'green state', who have just seen the fall, have found their light on the left or some buttery kids, who represent the rapper rebels and go to the revolution with their dad's Mercedes and have a dream, to work hard - to the party, of course - and to the public - and to take a limo too. They live with the money of the state, and they and their friends and their relatives, and they sell melody stories of resistance...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u300	What things are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u301	What's bothering you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u302	It bothers me that you're a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u303	What's bothering you? Didn't you see Mercedes? Didn't that bother you, Mr. Manier? Didn't you ever hear of it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u304	It bothers me what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Manier, please sit down. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u306	The problem, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u307	All these years with you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u308	...it's not a young man's blow, it's that you cover it, and you're proud of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u309	Say one!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Manier, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u311	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u312	These resistance stories they sell should insult you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u313	Leave what we're selling, what you're selling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u314	But we should go to insurance. We've made it clear. The increase in contributions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u315	It's not like that. Another statement made that it is armies, etc. That's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u316	Mr. Theodorakis knows that. Please let him go. He has his own thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u317	Look, I do not want to come back, but I think it is deeply insulting the image of a young man speaking in the name of a party that is supposed to be left and says: "I am in the position of the public, and I will put my family in the position of the public, because some of my grandparents fought in the mountain".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u318	It's not public!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u319	He didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u320	And the next day he should show up at the revolutionary celebration, as he did, driving his father's luxurious car. This is annoying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u321	Reproduction the bearer's post!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u322	It also has other reports on the 'CORDER'. Tell us all the page from the "CORDER THEME"!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u323	Mr. Barca, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u324	If it's not annoying for you, and you have the same vision of the same cars, your problem!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u325	Please, don't interfere! This dialogue must not be reproduced. Go on, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u326	I wanted to go to the insurance company, and I want to say directly what we have said for a long time. For us, the increase in contributions is nothing but a tax on labour. Increasing contributions means lowering wages and opposing workers and trade unions. The increase in contributions to self-employed workers is of the character of middle-class persecution and will lead to the exit from the real economy of a valuable capital for the country and thus, gradually, to further deterioration of the insurance system. SYRIZA wants as a party of power to do what the other parties did, to throw away the ball to others and protect his own voters. The loan, however, is over, so a new bay will have to be born. And what's Minister Katrugalos doing? What's he telling us? It increases contributions to free professionals, self-employed and farmers over a period of time and uses this money to close some holes. In other words, he takes the money from some who - listen - wear a tie, so they are not "ours" or are big farmers - a new term for the party he governs - to give it to those who have promised to them for so many years. And he says to his people: "For three years I have not cut pension. Then the crisis will be over, so we will also have increases." However, I think that no one in this country believes the promises made by a Minister of State SYRIZA - ANEL. And freelance professionals aren't looters. They understand they want to take the money away, give it to some others, and in exchange for promises it's worth nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are ahead - and we should say this, because it perhaps goes beyond the insurance arrangements we are trying to make - in a new wave of economic crisis and this new wave will be more devastating than the previous one. The Capital Control account is now coming. A new wave of padlocks comes and it concerns those who fought with nails and teeth these five years and kept their businesses open. They are not the grand depositors and all those who are on the lists of foreign banks or tax havens, but the small owners and free traders, the dynamic part of private business, that is, those who pay the wastes of the party state and those who cannot find a way out, because there is no economic plan and ultimately the marble of your government's insurance pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. The President of the Union of Central Banks, Mr Vassilis Leventis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u328	Mr President, I have followed the seconds. I was impressed by the speech by the Prime Minister that Mr Mitsotakis had fifty advisors at his ministry. You have not answered that, Mr Mitsotakis. You simply said 'we also made mistakes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u329	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u330	You'll give it up, you say. It would be interesting to learn from 2000 and then just how many scientific consultants, posters, etc. People need to know, because you say you cut too, Prime Minister. But where did you do that? He's interested in Greece to know where you took it. There is also the view that because they are temporary, they may also be relatives. Let's talk about one offense or two, understand them. But to appoint moms...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u331	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u332	Oh, there was no mother? Oh, I was wrong! The newspapers have written wrong! It is good to know from 2000, and then what looting is taking place and who is doing it. The world needs to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u333	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u334	The world needs to know about the parties' money. Because I have heard today about the money of the parties, that is, that there is - it says - an old law which says that a 2.40% card has to be retained and that for the PASOK and the New Democracy, if it applies retroactively - and they will bring it within the days in Parliament to erase it, to know - it will be EUR 40 million. Did you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u335	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u336	Not the fine. It had to be about 1980, when the parties were given money, that 2,40% of them would be held back every time. He wasn't intercepted. They found him the law and claim the public's 2.40%. For all parties, even for the JRC, there is a great deal of money going on. The public's claim is about 42 million euros for these old ones. Did you hear it or didn't you hear it? They will, in fact, have an amendment to get away with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u337	Mr. President, please. Don't speak interactively.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u338	To get away with it, they'll have an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u339	It's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u340	Did you hear that from me? You'll see it within the days. Someone confessed to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u341	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u342	I've heard all the seconds. According to the Prime Minister, the New Democracy has been mistaken at all. According to New Democracy, SYRIZA is responsible for everything. What about Greece? From Macedonia to Crete is the world that protests with all of you? Is this world stupid? Do you love him so much? What about the world? Why don't you dare go to your villages and see the candy? Why don't you go?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u343	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u344	Where are you? Who are you? Who are you? Who are you? Who are you? Down there and raise your hands, go to your village?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u345	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u346	Mr. Papadopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u347	I don't advise you to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u348	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u349	So do not understand what is happening in Greece. Mr. Katrugalo, I've been expecting truthfulness. What truthfulness? Since the insurance's not going well, so the baseball's down, you say you're going to pay fixed pensions. With what money, guys? Are you bourgeois? I'm sorry, but, if you do, I'm gonna bow down that you're the greatest people that's ever been through after Colotronis. I'm telling you. If you can afford less money to give the same pensions, I'll take your hat off. But do you know what you're gonna give? Can I tell you? I can't tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u350	...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u351	What can I say now? I respect the Chamber, and I will not say what you will end. And people know it. This world you've been telling him is gonna get a third wage, which, in all the children, you've been feeding it on business, this world now you're putting it in the hydraulic press, drinking it last blood. I really want to ask you this. When one is a lawyer with service permits and cut 100 euros, he has to give 72 euros. Do you think it'll cut? If you think it'll be cut, you're naive. If you put so much cost rates, insurance and tax, and think that the other one will cut, you are out of place and time. If there was openness and the Prime Minister said 'we are not going well and we all want to cut a 20%', we in the Central Association would vote. This is against sincere and honest conduct. But when with a reduced baset, you give main pensions, you're pajamas. That's how you're evolving! There's only one parrot saying such things. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] I'm sorry about the phrase I'm using. I repeat that I respect the Chamber. But with less money, the same services are not done with reasonable people, but with people who underestimate the intelligence of the world. Are farmers stupid to fear? What did I tell the farmers? I said leave them tax free for even 20,000 euros. I can't hear that either. You did, didn't you? It's completely unnecessarily unnecessarily. Has that happened? Has it been included? Not included. [[Noise in the Chamber]] To the free professionals again...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u352	Mr. Leventis, please make your speech first. Do not ask questions all the time, because it works interactively in the Chamber and it is not right. I'm serious! Your speech must be without rhetorical questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u353	But some questions have to be asked to some people who are smart and with fewer budgets give more than that, Mr President! With less budget they give more! So all the others are idiots! [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] You have a ruthless partyism! I see what passion you applaud your Chief! Is that licking? What is it? Without saying anything great, you applaud them. What's that? Please, I want to know what that is!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u354	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u355	You are applauding, and nothing important has been said. This was also presented in the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis. Don't smile! And he showed up to you. Without saying anything remarkable, there was applause.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u356	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u357	Is that faith in your face? You'll see how loyal everyone is in the future!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u358	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u359	Because some people don't come to the Chamber. Have you noticed, Mr. Mitsotakis? Some of your party is not coming to the Chamber! Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u360	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u361	I noticed. I sit back and notice and see that some do not come to the Chamber!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u362	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u363	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Don't make me bring you back to class. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u364	We ask, ladies and gentlemen, for a simplenalogy. And you're talking to SYRIZA about a more proportional system. To understand, what will be more 'proportional'? Will he say instead of the bonus be fifty seats, be thirty? Do you know what simple analogue means? It means not forming a government unless you get 50% plus one vote. That's the simple analogue. Will you do it? Will you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u365	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u366	Oh, be patient. Until when? Until our soul comes out? Until our soul comes out, we are patient, Mr. Kurubli!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, please proceed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u368	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u369	I don't want to mess with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Kurubble, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u371	Mr. Kurublis is being relieved. I don't want to open a new front! As long as the simple analogue is not done, the subsidies of the first party continue. And I think I heard the Prime Minister who told Taequivod that he would try each voter to be equivalent to the other. He told Taekvoddo. Without a mere analogy, that is not the case, Mr Tsipras. Because you are now ruling with fifty subsidisation seats. So instead of the hundred forty-nine Members you have, you would have ninety.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u372	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u373	Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u374	...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u375	Don't you have fifty extra subsidisation seats?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u376	You are wrong to say so, Mr President! Go ahead!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u377	Oh, you don't. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u378	They'd have 37% of the fifty. Go ahead! We're both engineers and we understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u379	Oh, that's it! So, there's no 50 bonus? How's the bonus? I didn't get it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u380	Let's go down! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u381	How's the bonus?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u382	Are we gonna say on the bonus? The seats would not leave Greece. The seats would be in here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u383	Oh, on the bonus, the bonus, the bonus, the bonus, the bonus! I get it, I get it! Once Karamanlis, the founder of the New Democracy, had taken two hundred seventeen seats! With 53%! You know how much he had to take with 53%. He had to get a hundred and fifty-six, and he took two hundred and seven! Karamanlis had the bonus ever since. He came back with bonuses from Paris. And because the bonus is very convenient, he also found it Andreas Papandreou, who promised the simple analogue and continued it. And I don't see any other parties who had to fight a little for simple analogues, like the JRC, who don't see it often say it. I want to think they're taking it, of course, but I don't see them pressing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u384	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u385	I would also like to reply to Mrs Gennimata, although she is not here, who proposes a committee of inquiry on how we went bankrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u386	Mr President, ten minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u387	Are there people in Greece who don't know how we went bankrupt? With the assignments, the stealing, the gratuities, which have been happening for years. Isn't that how we went bankrupt? And now, the illegality of PASOK took them, SYRIZA moved. And they are welcome, of course, because they have brought you to power. You may have come to power, but history will write that it has moved a party of scandals to you to come to power, while the Central Association will strive to come honestly to power.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You're very welcome. Quiet. Mr Kammens is not present in the Chamber - obviously in his protology there is a second-guess - because he was in office. The Minister has the floor, Mr Georgios Katrugalos. Here, Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u389	They won't need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u390	You won't need them, I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u391	They won't need to, because anyway, what they heard in the secondary years had little to do with the insurance. I'll tell you what's essential. Tomorrow in the European Parliament we are trying to go ahead with the negotiation, not at bilateral level, as we have done all this time, where our negotiating power is weaker, but by trying to find out what we are discussing. Because what happens with pensions in Greece, what happens with the social state in Greece is not just a national issue, it is a European one. From the outset we said, before January, that we want a Greece in a social Europe. And precisely this seed that we sowed before the elections, we see it in various countries - Portugal, I hope Spain - catch a place. In this conflict, then, two points of view, neoliberalism and social Europe, we are obviously the first to defend the interests of our people. But this is also important in the European Parliament. With society we were in a debate, with the farmers on the roadblock, with my colleagues, the lawyers, who are meeting tomorrow at 11 a.m. tomorrow to find a solution. But let me tell you that this solution must be in the context of the principles of reform, equality and social justice. You know, Buffet, the second richest man in the world, had at some point said that his secretary, like the American tax system, pays more taxes than him. Here, we have the same paradox: whoever has a big law firm, a big construction company, pays the same insurance obligation now, the one who works with the block for him. This can't go on long. Obviously, where there are extreme consequences of a fair measure, we should consider it, but we should be able to understand what is in the direction of equality and social justice and what is not. I will make a little reference to some of the proposals that I have heard from the President of the Democratic Incorporation, Mr Gennamas, and because, although he has asked for the withdrawal of the bill, I think he has differentiated himself from the tone of other political leaders in that he has tabled some proposals. It is not irrelevant that I refer to these proposals. In Europe, with the Left of Social Democracy, we have been trying to get an approach, because it, too, is rethinking its attitude and thinking whether this hug with extreme neoliberalism has been its final option. And as the New Democracy progresses to this marriage of extreme right and neoliberalism, the greater the gap between it and the other powers. I would therefore like to call on the Democratic Reconciliation and the PASOK to consider some of their proposals. They told us, say, about three funds. I, at a meeting with the scientific bodies invited by the Prime Minister, asked: Would you representatives of EAFRD scientists be on the same fund of self-employed people as traders? The answer we got was no. Do you insist on this proposal? I said earlier that for us the organisational structure is secondary. What's the primary? The equivalency of the rules. All Greeks have the same protection and neither privileged nor lost. Finally, I owe Mr Mitsotakis an answer. Why not change his law that put planted directors and Directors-General? When I was him, we were asked by ADEDY. He asked for it intensifiedly by denounced Mr. Raguss, the previous Minister. If we were to change those who planted, we would also send the message that we like the others are, that we are coming to impose our own people, our own children in the place of the parties that Mr Mitsotakis had chosen. I, too, recommended and accepted by the Ministerial Council my proposal, not to do what they did and the PASOK and the New Democracy, when changing into the government, to come with a law to end the mandate of the collective bodies. And that's just to do what we're doing right now. To come up with an honest evaluation system rather than what the New Democracy had, which was basically starting at the beginning of the day, that a percentage of employees are useless and, through evaluation, they would slowly take the road to dismissal. And now that we have the honest evaluation system, what has also been discussed with the public officials and adopts the best European practices, we will indeed proceed to evaluation, clean ones. Not in order to put our own people in order, but in order that we can actually have the public administration that we deserve. So that's where we gave a sample of writing to the administration. I think today that those who have endured and seen the discussion on television will understand who have proposals, who say jokes and who do they belong to in the past and who do they mean in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u393	You won't have to, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u394	You won't have to. So Prime Minister Tsipras will close the debate with a little tritology of a few minutes. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u395	Kid, because it's too late. I believe that today's debate has been a good one. Because a major issue, a major social issue, the sustainability of social security employs all Greeks and all Greek women. It was openly discussed before the Greek people and proposals were tabled. We have taken the responsibility of tabling a proposal openly, not in closed rooms in negotiations with the institutions - as other governments have usually done - but on this major national issue, the major social issue, our proposal has been made publicly known. We did not testify to the institutions in secret. We have tabled it at the same time throughout the Greek society, we have submitted it to the social bodies and we are open to a substantial dialogue with the parties, with Parliament, with the social organizations, with the professional groups. Today's debate was useful. She was useful, because she showed the problem first. We are not talking here because we have an obligation under the agreement. We are talking, because we have a problem that will break in front of us, it will break in our hands, whoever governs this place in the next few years. And we have a duty in future generations to open up the debate and find solutions. There was one - I think - agreement in most of this, that we cannot go into regulations, measures, reforms on the sustainability of the insurance system. Of course, there were a number of disagreements. I am not going to mention just the disagreements about who is to blame. Besides, one would expect that there would be absolutely reasonable disagreements. However, there are also differences in relation to the proposals put forward. We believe that we should go to a structural reform for the sustainability of the system. But we want to go to a redistributive system and not to a capitalist system. We believe it is fair to share the burdens and give the possibility of protection, a minimum protection, depending on the potential of the economy in all Greeks and Greeks. We do not believe that the solution is the pillar of private insurance. It is the logic that says that those who survive will be the ones who have the financial potential. And those who do not have the economic potential, whether because they are unemployed or because they are precariously employed, will have a prospect at their age of elementary social protection. We believe that contributions should be proportional to income - with real income - and that this is an indicator of social justice. We believe that what has happened so far, where the contributions were the same for those who have the same for those who do not have, is an indicator of inequality and injustice. We do not agree with the netting of subsidies for farmers and insurance contributions proposed, especially when we in the OGA - and we know that very well - there is a very large proportion of the farmers it owes to the insurer. It would mean such a proposal - to listen to the farmers who are following us with an agony - that virtually 40% of the active population of farmers would have cuts in their subsidies. On the contrary, we are struggling to tax farmers' subsidies. We do not agree with the full implementation of the zero deficit clause, which would in fact give very large reductions, almost 70% in some cases, to supplementary pensions. And it is quite a different thing, it is not the same in other words, it is the sustainability clause, that is to say, the possibility of giving supplementary pensions from the funds' reserves, of course, on the basis of the viability of the reserves, and the zero deficit clause, which means, in fact, a very simple thing, that in order to maintain a certain percentage of expenditure, when these expenditure is exceeded, we will not pay for supplementary pensions. We also believe - and this is extremely important in our understanding - that pensions for pensioners who have seen their pensions fall by 35% over the past five years. And that is not only, if you want, an indicator of social justice, but it has to do with the very ability to remain, to stimulate active demand. These pensioners and people who have seen 35% cuts in recent years, what they get, consume it and mainly live their children and their unemployed grandchildren, because unfortunately unemployment remains at 24%. We therefore believe that it is both fair and moral to give the battle in this direction. And I believe that this is what the great majority of Greeks and Greeks want, not only the pensioners, but also the free professionals, who have indeed seen, through the proposal we have tabled, in some middle-income charges, which we must correct. I believe that the large majority agrees with the main objective that we do not have to bring about further reductions in current pensions, to pensioners who have seen great cuts. And I think that this battle must be given the next time and to create a wider possible social agreement, but at the same time also the battle with the institutions, the fight to convince that the country is in the process of getting out of the crisis, the economy is one step ahead of the crisis. And in order to move on to this dubious exit, social cohesion is needed. We must not break it. It needs social consensus in a generous reform effort of the insurance company to make it sustainable. Furthermore, we cannot have any more standards, since there is a very important social agreement between government and employers in the country. And since in other cases, in other countries in Europe, similar amounts have been accepted, so now our proposal, as far as pension cuts are concerned, must be accepted by the institutions and this will be the great battle we are going to fight. Finally, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that next time we will be open to a substantial dialogue. Dialogue has already begun in the House, in the parties, but above all in society. In the Committee, the Economic and Social Committee, we will pursue an essential dialogue with the social partners, with professional bodies, with farmers. But we want dialogue on the reality of the proposals, not on the misinformation. And we want this dialogue to end up with a reform that will give the prospect of the viability of our insurance system, because we owe this to the next generations and at the same time maintain social cohesion, namely, it will prevent a new horizontal intervention in pensions, that is, it will prevent a new reduction in pensions for pensioners, who have seen painful cuts in recent years. We believe it is a difficult road, but we believe that the goal is feasible. And we believe that the more sincere and widest we speak openly and move on to a sincere dialogue with society, our goal will be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u396	The debate on an earlier agenda was concluded at the initiative of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-26-S1-commons.u397	With the agreement of the House at 1.12' the sitting is closed for Wednesday, January 27, 2016 at 12.00, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda for a special event (time 13.00) for the memory of Greek Jewish witnesses and Holocaust heroes.
