ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 22-12-2015, the minutes of the SEE Bureau, on Tuesday 22 December 2015, with regard to (a) the vote on the entire draft law on cohabitation, exercise of rights, criminal and other provisions, as well as (b) the minutes of the sittings on Friday 23 October 2015 and Saturday 24 October 2015]] I hope for a good and creative year - not a period, but a year - in Parliament. Of course, I will not say that we are starting with the best omens, because, apart from Mr Alexiadis and Mr Spirtzis who are present and will answer the two questions by colleagues, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis and Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou, the other timely questions are postponed because of the blockade of the main ministers. Let's think it's still the festive fortnight and that from Monday it'll all be better. I have the honour to announce to the House the FAQ on Friday 8 January 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 340/5-1-2016 topical question by MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Eleni Aylonitou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the inability to graduate students of "Te Kvo Do" from the TEFAs of the University of Thessaloniki and Athens, due to a lack of teachers of this specific speciality. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 335/4-1-2016 topical question by Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of Parliament I of the New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on how to hold the parliamentary elections, with a list or a cross of preference, should they take place within eighteen months of the last elections. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about excessive charges on electronic interbank transactions. 4. The current question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, concerning the closure of the Centre for Physics and Rehabilitation of Rethymno due to a total lack of personnel. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Finance about subjecting to a more favourable calculation scheme for individual hotel businesses operating in the Prefecture of Samos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 336/4-1-2016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance concerning the assessment of new financial measures for the period 2015-2016. 3. The question by No. 332/4-1-2016, by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of State, about the apparent delay in the completion of the Boards. of the Independent Authorities (i.e.4339/phase 133A/29-10-2015 ‘Authorisation of the providers of free-of-charge digital television content...’) 4. The Question No 348/5-1-2016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the implementation of a liquidated storage station in the port of Patras and Egypt. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 327/15-12-2015 of the First Cycle of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Finance, on the state planning of the fight against illegal gambling and the online betting of EUR 5.5 billion in order to contribute revenues to the Treasury. Mr. Triantafylides, many years, good year! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u2	Happy birthday, Mr President, to the main ministers, to the workers of this House! Happy and creative year! I think that this question responds to the designation of the 'opportunity question' in the sense that the government is controlled and creatively pushed towards seeking alternative sources of funding for the insurance system, which is also the issue of days. One of these sources is illegal gambling. Because I see Mr. Spirtzi here too, I would like to say that it seems that this country has codified non-television licenses, not online about electronic toys. It was all in 'no', one thing essentially inconsistent, uncontrolled, unregulated, and when we thought at one point that it was 5.5 billion euros the turnover of this illegal gambling and we must also take from there, we made a law in 2011, Law 4002, we put procedures for referral to the bells, because there was no political will, and that is why the three-year transition stage went practically unrealistic. They came, they saw, and they went away! At the moment that we are actually talking about a regime that is not controlled by anyone, which is in their statement taxed by these online companies, which is twenty-fourth of the number. Several of them have their seat in Malta or other offshore companies. It is really a Far West, America Latina, what we are describing. And I'm saying this because I have toward me the Trophoon Alexiadis, who I can look into his eyes, because I know it's what our people say, that is, "the right man in the right place" and has both the guts and the political will to put hands and legs on. Because it cannot take time when the Greek people are bleeding, at the time the micro-retired person thinks if he reaches 650 or 750 euros to make the month - if he has these too, because there are those who are not retired - at the same time the 'part' of online betting companies to continue. That's 5.5 billion dollars. If we think that it is the equivalent of the OPCW, the OPCW pays 750 million, if I'm not mistaken, Minister, at the same time that in 2012 and 2013 these companies did not pay one and in 2014, according to their statement, they paid close to 40 million. It is 750 million on one hand and 40 million on the other, and on the other, it is a glorious field! I close my first speech by asking two specific questions: First, Minister, how does the state plan to directly address - objectives, within the means, - the illegal gambling of EUR 5.5 billion and thus make multiple contributions to the Treasury? My second question is this: How does it plan to mobilise the competent authority - which the regulatory authorities - the EEPC - the Committee on Gambling Control and Supervision, etc. - and with what means does the government intend to deal with illegal online gaming companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u3	The Minister of Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u4	Happy New Year to everyone! I hope that this new year we will have greater participation and more dialogue on the serious problems that we have before us. You raise a very serious question with your question, Mr Papoutsis. Because it is true at the same time that we are forced - it is not our political choice - to take difficult tax measures we see there being major wounds to the country's tax system that do not allow us to implement the constitutional imposition for a fair distribution of tax burdens. As far as the issues you raise in your question, as you know, since 2011, the framework for the operation of the relevant gaming procedures in Greece has been established. This law has had positive elements, but it has left too many loopholes, which all these gentlemen have taken advantage of - and I will tell you below, because it is more tragic than what you said, unfortunately - on the issue of income tax. From the provisions of 2011 it appears that we have three bodies that control the process of games. The Committee on Gambling Supervision and Control monitors legitimate gambling in Greece. The Greek Police check the illegal gambling in Greece and the Ministry of Finance through the tax administration is naturally trying to control the legal corporations, whether they pay the relevant taxes. So here we have the fact that the Committee on Gambling is carrying out audits to identify pages through which illegal gambling is provided, that we have the Committee on Games to monitor the legitimate operation of gaming companies and make the so-called black list for those companies who are arrested to have illegal games. Similarly, ELAS, as I said, does a very serious job in illegal gambling and in relation to its accounts, in 2014 and 2015, by the checks of ELAS, we have eight hundred sixty-two violations, two thousand eight hundred ninety-seven arrested people, six thousand fourteen seized machines and three hundred two thousand seized. Of course, there is a glorious field for better coordination of ELAS, tax services and the Gaming Commission on these issues. An important factor in what you are talking about in your question and you are asking is, of course, to have legislative initiatives to change the whole process that is currently in online gambling. There must be legislative initiatives and the market in illegal gambling must be settled. You said some evidence before. You know, we have three taxes. We have the 10% that players pay for their profits. We have 30% that companies pay for what they have left of the players' participation if we remove the players' profits. But we also have the income tax on online gambling companies, and that is the big scandal. At the same time as the Greek citizen and Greek businesses are forced to pay huge amounts of income tax, I will tell you that in 2012, income tax from these twenty-four companies received EUR 31,179, in 2013 we received EUR 5.179 and in 2014 we received EUR 27,366. All of these are, of course, issues in programming to change immediately and we must say that we are not satisfied with the pace of these issues. We must finish this transition process and go to a competition or to legislative initiatives, so that we can have a definitive regime. This process cannot continue with the transitional period in which there are twenty-four total internet gaming companies. The problems we have identified so far are that we have online gambling in Greece provided by facilities located in offshore jurisdictions, such as Man and the Netherlands Antilles, and there are responsibilities for those who legislated these things in Greece. We have agreements with other companies in Greece to operate in Greece through their websites. We have expired their legal authorisation at the time they were placed under the transitional regime and generally use authorisations which have not been issued by the countries of the European Union and the European Economic Area. Finally, they do not hold a direct licence but use a licence with another related company. So you realise that the income from these companies' income tax - because we have an income tax, we have 30%, we have 10% of the players' profits - are insignificant and we have to go directly to those actions so that they too can pay what all the other companies pay in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA MP Panagiota Brandza is requesting a foreign leave for Monday 11 January 2016 and Tuesday 12 January 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u6	The House approved the requested permission. You have the floor, Mr. Triantafylides, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u7	Minister, hurry up. Hurry, because this is an open constant scandal. And as long as that's not handled, as long as you don't get the revenue from there, when you think about how you're gonna avoid 23% VAT on education, the more you're gonna look and put 0,05 on the OPCW column, so you're gonna tax who? The four and a half thousand families of the OPCW agents, who are already part of the normal process, in normality, and not of what I called Far West America Latina European press. This must also be done for the reason we have said, in order to look for and identify alternative sources of funding. It is near the 700-800 million that can draw, instead of these funny sums of 20,000 and 30,000 that you mentioned, Minister. Do it! I didn't say so, you don't need me to devour you. You're one of the ministers who's not out of nowhere. And it's this government that's not caught from anywhere. It serves no interest. It does not serve both complexity and corruption. And that is why it is a unique opportunity for the country, for the homeland, to see who is currently looking for how to survive with the pensions of EUR 500 and 600 that there is a rule of law and that the strong ones pay and put their hand in the pocket. I don't know how you're gonna do it. It's hard because I understand from what I see that they were given with v. In addition, the Commission is proposing that the Member States should take all appropriate measures to ensure that they are able to comply with their obligations under the Treaty. They didn't. They were given the opportunity not to enter the black list in three years. They didn't. And now we are leading to a situation where, according to a non-documentary paper of the Committee on Game Surveillance and Control, we are dealing with a regime which is only sufficient to describe to you: failure to hold a legal licence to provide gambling and betting services on the Internet; failure to hold a legal licence on the date of the entry into force of the provision in Article 50(10) of the Law 4002; and the acquisition of it in a later period. It describes a series - one to one - of illegality committed by these companies. But you will now see how much of the media will present our debate, Minister. Because when in some sites these ".gr" companies are advertised, it makes sense that the site doesn't want to take its eyes out with its hands. Obviously, isn't it? The client's always right. In this regard, however, our client is the citizen, the Greek citizen who claims that there should be social justice and pay the people who have to pay. You must immediately move in this direction, as well as in another direction, of bank supplies. And I say this, by the way, because we are also talking about a global battle - a campaign against tax evasion. Merchants, small and medium-sized, craftsmen, confectionery, butcher, mandarin, Minister, who does not want to tax and wants to put the pos - the machine - so that everything can be done through plastic money, say 'no, brother, put the bank as a partner in my business and pay 3-4% pimp in the bank', which does nothing! - when you put your credit card on the debit card to pay 50, 100, 200 euros corresponding to the commodity you buy. Look at it, do something. Banks cannot function as a separate principal. Put your hands on the banks. They're unrecognized. I think there is a Community directive that lays down that it is half a percent on this transaction. It cannot be 3% and 4% - you realise that - and it is a stimulus to your commitment, Minister, that through plastic money we will face tax evasion. That's a stimulus. In other words, the banks are effectively undermining this process of combating tax evasion by the practice of these multiple supplies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u8	Mr Minister, please excuse me for a minute - and I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of Finance, Economy, Development and Tourism, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity have tabled a draft law on 4-1-2016: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 relating to the taking-up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II), Articles 2 and 8 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directives 2003/71/EC and 2009/138/EC and Regulations (EC) Nos 2 and 8. Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009, (EU) No 1060/2009, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Minister, you have the floor and apologise for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, you have correctly raised the issues, and I would also like to confirm that, in the issues of tax evasion, smuggling and corruption, the government will do everything possible because, as I said, we are fully aware of what tax regime we are forced to have and we will not leave anyone either legally or illegally to avoid taxing or taxing. However, as far as the issues of illegal gambling are concerned, as you said, what we are doing right now - and I did not have time to say it in my prototype - is to conclude the market consultations on this issue and bring about concrete initiatives, bring legislative initiatives to end the transitional regime and activate the normal regime with new authorisations, which is expected to yield direct revenue to the state. We must bring legislative initiatives to introduce clear and definite rules on the functioning of the market with a clear regulatory framework, to launch tax controls, already carried out by the companies in the transitional regime - apart from those already made public and already carried out, we are launching new controls - and, finally, to strengthen cooperation between state control bodies, in order to combat illegal gambling more effectively. At this point I would like to stress how important the new reorganised IMO, which will have a special section dealing with this issue of illegal gambling, will play, of course, with the relevant bodies of the Greek Police. However, with regard to the big issue you have raised - and I think it would like to have a special debate in this House at some point - that is, the question of extending banking transactions. I would like to say this: we do not want to expand banking, because we have some philosophical visa or mental illness or because we have a dark role, as some strange people have to say, to do. We want to expand banking, because through this process we can give a decisive blow to tax evasion and smuggling, and that is why we want to extend them. In order to extend bank transactions, which will benefit the public sector, but will benefit banks very much, the public and banks must change their function in terms of both the issues of confiscations at the level of accounts - and already there are processes at this point and we will have the next time announcements - but also in terms of the big issue you have put in, that of bank supplies. Because when I go to my neighborhood oven to get a cocoon, he tells me "when you pay with a card the cocoon and bread 0.80 euros and ask for it per transaction of no party so or commission, it seems to us in this process". So this cannot go on. With the same determination that we shall proceed with the expansion of banking transactions on the market, precisely to address the issues that we have said, we are in dialogue with the banks to find a solution. We cannot have 3% commissions - there are currently such commissions on cards - we cannot cost EUR 280 and 300 to put a machine on. The banks need to see these things differently. We all need to understand that, in order for banking to succeed, we need to motivate and help businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u10	Minister, since you're here, I'm going to mention something by way of derogation. I'm telling you by a personal example. I arranged the 2015 evidence the other day and saw that I had four boxes with proof and the previous years. If these are not to be taken into account, let us say so, to empty the lockers of our homes. When the time comes, you will also make the decision as government about whether to take the card into account. Besides that I agree with what you said about the banks, will the previous evidence be needed or do we have them unjustly now in our homes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u11	You are right to put it, Mr President, and that is a good thing that you have collected so much proof for the past few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u12	We all have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u13	Sure. It's two different things. There will be an announcement from the Treasury in the next few days that we will be clear about what the world will do with the old evidence, because the old evidence is in our homes and we keep them, because there's a chance they'll call us for a check on the tax statement. However, with a statement from the Ministry of Finance, we will be clear about what years and what accusations they will have to keep the evidence. Because we want the consistent taxpayer ally in our efforts. As far as the issue of what we are keeping for 2016 is concerned, however, we are keeping all the evidence for 2016. There is also an obligation for businesses to cut evidence and for us to keep the evidence and we will bring the provision to implement what we have announced many times, namely the expansion of banking transactions and the introduction that any change, any amount that we have in our tax declaration should be justified through a bank transaction. This provision will also come to resolve the anxiety there is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too. The fourth question will be discussed under number 304/14-12-2015 of the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the delay in the delegation of the roads "Heraklio - Mesara" and "Panormo - Exanti" to Crete. Dear Vasilei, many years for your celebration. Mr Kegeroglu will answer Mr Christos Spirtzis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President, and I take a good year to all and creative work for Parliament. Minister, after successive cancellations, we are finally discussing this question, which concerns two very important projects for Crete, projects that were included in the NRP and for which there is a long time that the procedure - or at least that is what it seems - does not seem to be going ahead. I will concentrate mainly on the subproject on the 'Heraklio-Mesara' road, because the project 'Panormo-Exanti', according to your communications, will go as a bridge project in the NSRF. The subproject, which deals with the road "Iraklio - Mesara" is therefore very critical and useful. It is useful, because, if this project is not completed, which is essentially up to five kilometres [5 km], but with serious infrastructure to be completed, it will not make use of the large project, which has already been carried out, which is about 20 km [20 km] and has cost the Greek public as a whole close to about 200 million. It is therefore very important to see this course of work, overcoming the problems. It should be said that the project was auctioned in autumn 2014. In 2015, the actions that would lead to the start of work, the installation of a contractor, contractor, did not take place. That was not a year ago. Why didn't it happen? Because there are procedural problems and essentially, according to which the Ministry informs, especially because the first shareholder, as the Ministry informs, did not qualify, the conditions on the day of the tender, in order to be formalised and in fact - you mentioned something about tax information - to take over the project. So we want to see whether you are going to proceed directly with the project, according to the law - obviously, if the first does not have the prerequisites, it goes to the latter - and why is it more urgent than the other one, which is related, which is part of the ESDP, because it will be financed from national funds, as you have announced. However, if it does not go ahead and is not completed - at least by its large part - by a certain date in 2017, then retrospectively, in line with the European Union's existing rules, we may also be asked for money for the other sub-projects, which we have already executed by the NRP, which is being completed this year. It is therefore very crucial and we want to know what you are going to do as a Ministry in relation to this process. We must say that it is one of the things the Ministry has done, but the work, if things go well, will be carried out with the supervision of the Crete Development Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u16	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Happy New Year to all! Mr. Kegeroglu, many years for your nominal celebration. I want to make a clarification. The cancellations to the answer to this timely question were made because I was away. There was no other mood. I will concentrate my answer mainly on the work of Agia Varvara - Apmarma. I understand the need to complete this project and my recent visit to Heraklion for the airport of Kastelios there was also the commitment to the implementation and completion of this project, as this work is not a project for the project, but it is an important project for Crete. It is a project contributing to the productive reconstruction of the country and to the service of the productive fabric of Crete. What's happened? This is also apparent from the replies from the services. We had a complaint about the broker. The complaint concerned invaluable tax information, on the basis of which on 31 March 2014 a degree briefing for its participation in the project was issued. Following the complaint, the General Secretariat of Intelligence, on 6 April 2015, recommended to the Ministry's competent department, the Registry, that an audit be carried out through the electronic confirmation service of the General Secretariat of Information Systems with regard to the validity of the tax information. The electronic system of the General Secretariat of Information Systems showed that tax information was not valid. Following that, on 8 July, the agency initiated disciplinary proceedings against the company and issued a plan to withdraw the information of a licence issued for that company as it was based on invaluable tax information. On 20 November the draft was referred to the Legal Affairs Council of the State. The Legislative Council of State issued an opinion and forwarded it to my office on 14 December, shortly before Christmas. It has been accepted and the service, on the basis of this acceptance, will issue a certificate of information revocation. So, Mr Kegeroglu, it's outwardline, according to the law, what will happen. Unfortunately, it will not run over the next few days, because we have a framework for the production of public works and, in particular, of registers, which keep back and create many delays in the conduct of public works. I believe that the response times to the delays and the advisory bodies, which the Greek State has, seem to have been immediate. It's very serious. No subjects have been dealt with yet for partial or total withdrawal of a diploma, nor could we proceed to sign contracts, when there were complaints of false or 'unreal' to say so elegantly, tax information. The government's commitment is that the work will proceed and I believe that we will be together. You are quite right that this work, which has troubled the citizens of Crete, must finally take its way and be completed and our commitment is that this will be done within the month. Two projects have been carried out so far. This is a third project - a broom, which we have presented to the Greek Parliament. The agency was ready to sign and proceed with the contract and we had these delays and the lengthy procedures that we all know about. Within the next week, the draft law will come into consultation and institutionally to deal not only with this project but with all the public works that have been delayed, due to the way in which the registers of study and contractors have been operating over the years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u18	You have the floor, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u19	Minister, as you said, with the completion of this sub-project, the total investment made by the Greek State, which is very useful for the development of Crete, for productive reconstruction and especially because it connects a region with Heraklion, which is very productive in all sectors. So we have agreed on this criticality of the project for a long time. But both of them can't be. Or the complaint came late, but we were delayed in moving forward with the award procedures or it was early and the services were delayed in making the shareholder's discount. In any case, there is a long delay, but I must point out that it is very small in relation to the suffering of the whole project, that is, eight months or one year. However, it is time that he was lost and he was critical because he "help" helped us to get the project off the ground. However, I do not think that now, as a central administration, there is any justification for not moving forward with the delegation of the second, third, or I do not know which partner the law says. This must be done immediately, because there will be a risk that the money we have already received for the other sub-projects will be claimed back, as one Community framework is linked to the other, namely the NRP with the new NRP, as was the case with the 2006-2014 programme. That is why he answered, he lost eligibility for this particular project. I would therefore like to say that it is very important and I expect you to tell us when you think it will be entrusted to the contractor. The Agency for the Development of Crete, which is the body to take over the project, has carried out an important project during the two years that has been set up. I have to tell you that Mr. L. 4313 and the creation of the Crete Development Agency is one of the bills passed by the majority party that supports the government, to which you are Minister today. It's one of the few laws that resulted from dialogue and consensus. It is a public body with inter-institutional representation of grade 1 and grade 2 and also of the public in order to be effective. However, in these two years - and in 2014 and 2015 - it did not receive the funding required and a grant in order to be able to flow. The project "Gurnes-Hersonissos", "Panormos-Exantis", which we referred to as "Mournis-Gogenis". These are the projects that the Agency will carry out. Today you need to provide the necessary grants, as provided for in Article 73. Of course, in December, you gave 2.4 million, but it relates to committed commitments and repayments. They are not the ones provided for in Article 73. The most important issue for the OAS and Crete, after overcoming these issues, is the study of strategic planning for the trans-European road network, which has been frozen. With this, with that and the other, this study has been frozen and must go ahead. It's very important for evolution next. I would therefore like to ask you, through the grant, to make further the design, studies and operation of the Crete Development Agency so that all these projects linked to the development of the island have not been delayed at least because of the Agency's untimely grant. The others, as you have rightly said, which have to do with the institutional framework are being dealt with by the legal side, and that is where we have to be typical, because there are objections to anyone, and that creates the need to be with the application of the law as it should be without delay. Unfortunately, if there are any further delays, then that will cost financially. The financial cost goes to the citizens. And then Mr Alexiadis will come and he will say 'we are forced, without wanting to put new taxes'. But the new taxes go in for the reason that the public...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u20	It's made sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u21	It has now been understood by the citizens themselves, and that is why they are very strict with us, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u22	Minister, if you'll excuse me for a minute, why should this announcement have taken precedence. The second question under number 324/15-12-2015 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Evros, Anastasios State, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the immediate arrangement to grant the wage bills by 12% of industrial, craft and mining enterprises in border regions, is postponed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fifth under number 330/15-12-2015 topical question by the Member of the Attica Parliamentary Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problem of Eastern Attica, is postponed due to an impediment by the Minister. The sixth question, under number 310/14-12-2015, is the first question for the Member of Parliament, Mr. Jason Fotella, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the use of European youth unemployment programmes, is postponed as a result of an impediment by the Minister and deleted. The first question under number 328/15-12-2015 of the Second Cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Simorellis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the search for unduly paid benefits by insurance institutions, is postponed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The second question, under number 318/14-12-2015, of the second question by the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnania of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Konstantinos Barbarousi to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the problems of the people of Lefkada affected by the earthquake in November 2015, is postponed due to an impediment by the Minister. The third, with number 288/10-12-2015, topical question by the Senate MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleli to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of the advance payment of the single payment to farmers - farmers in the country, is postponed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The fourth question, with number 331/15-12-2015, is the second question of the Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the problems of the drastic reduction of the basic support for farmers, is postponed as a result of the impediment of the Minister. I give you an increased time, Minister, because I would like to ask you - so that I do not trouble you with another timely question - if you know it, tell us if you were signed - why this answer was received by the Minister responsible, Mr Toska - the new contract between the agency supervised by you and the Ministry of Public Order for the free movement of police. You don't have to answer, but I don't have to bring you another day. So I put five minutes and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u23	I shall begin with your question, Mr President. It is one of the first priorities to sign this convention. In order to sign up, the FEK, which defines the new administrations of the agencies, should be issued. It is obvious that it will be signed, so that there is no uncertainty on the people who serve the bodies and the Ministry that there will be no such contract. That decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u25	Dear Mr Kegeroglu, you also know better than me that there are regions of the country - and one of them is Crete - which have been wronged in infrastructure by the previous governments. We believe that this year - and we have given examples of this - through a large infrastructure programme, we will be able to contribute to the country coming out of the crisis, reduce unemployment and the state having revenue. Already the existing projects have accelerated. Projects we received stuck started. You are quite right that the system we have is bureaucratic, which, if we do not change it, we will always have the problems we have with this work. The central administration cannot, however, take into account such sensitive issues as the service and the opinions of the Legal Council of State, because we do not want to see any shadow in the awards of projects. You are quite right that the country and the citizen cannot be troubled, because one company denounces another. These should have been solved. Technology gives us, if you want, those advantages to overcome the delays, at least in the first phase of the competitive processes, the standard elements, and in that sense we will move forward. As I said to you, in January, both projects will proceed with a time commitment. For Ok, it's another conversation. Generally for the study of the trans-European network of Crete and not only did a meeting take place the last time I went down to Heraklion and with the district manager and mayors. And I would like us to have a co-operation with all the Members of Crete about the course and perhaps see some changes for the OAS. Because it is not just a shortage or a small amount of funding, it is also other issues that need to be discussed. The organization that manages the waters of Crete, and not only should owe PPC 3.5 million and risk cities such as Chania, to stay without the operation of the water system. Therefore, there I would like us to have a partnership to see the best way of dealing with these problems, as well as the best way of forming the board of directors, so that there is a satisfactory participation of all regional units in the management of the organisation. Thank you so much and a good year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u26	Thank you too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u28	Okay, because we have time, but don't make a new argument for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u29	No, no. First of all, I would like to say that for the successive postponements of the debate I did not give rise to feasibility, the questions are simply urgent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u30	Besides, if you see it, you deposited it 14-12-2015. Because sometimes I yell, but today I'll take the Minister's side. On 14-12-2011, the answer came from the Legal Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u31	Yeah, it was for the second time that statement. In any case, the ministers must know that the Member is missing the possibility of asking for another matter. Today, despite the many cancellations we have had because of the blockade of Ministers, two additional questions have been debated very usefully. That's what I wanted to say. I would also like to say to the Minister, if possible, to call on the OECD meeting so that it does not drag on. There is no point in what you said about representation, because all the counties are legally represented. In any case, however, you should convene the meeting to end the loose end, not to drag the subject of the organization back to the ground, because the works are being dragged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u32	Minister, do you want to answer something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u33	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u34	Thank you. Before we close, I would like to add that the third debate under number 317/14-12-2015 of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the "dealing of our Macedonian name to the Skopje", is postponed as a result of an obstruction from the Minister. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-07-S1-commons.u35	With the consent of the House at 10.25 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 8 January 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
