ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament Mr Mario Katsi, Member of the Trispotia, the following:]] A. REFERENCE OF REFERENCES
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question report of Monday 21 March 2016, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laris of the Radical Left Coalition, Anna Vageias, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the exacerbation of the problem of trafficking - trafficking - use of drugs in the center of Athens. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the reintroduction and restoration of the wage-rate subsidy under European Regulations. 3. The Question No 639/10-3-2016 by the Deputy of Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michael Jeleighis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the Greek Sugar Industry. 4. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the reconstituting of the Labour Housing and Workshops. 5. The question raised by Mr.Akaterini Marcos, Member of the European Parliament, Mr.Akaterini Marcos, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the payment of employees to the Social Response Structures of Poverty. 6. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of Parliament, with number 668/15-32016, a topical question by MP, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Minister for Health, on the Centres for the Certification of Disability and the Evaluation of Fleeting. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 661/15-32016 by MP Evros of the New Republic, Anastasios Purchas, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the reintroduction and restoration of a wage-saving measure based on European Regulations. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 640/10-3-2016 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of National Defence, on the Greek Defence Systems (ESA). 3. The question of the dismissal of a trade unionist, working in the chain of shops - "MIKEL COFFEE COMPANY" in Drama under number 67115-3-2016. 4. The question under number 588/29-2-2016 by MP Fthiotidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Apostolos Karastasis to the Minister of Health concerning the problem of the operation of the General Hospital of Lamia. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by the Member of Parliament, Mr Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the Fund for the Auxiliary Insurance of Utilities for Fuel Wetlands (TEAPYK). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKSKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKMKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be debated under number 632/8-3-2016 of the second-round question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Independent Greeks, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning measures to ensure the impartial conduct of the polls. In the timely question, Mr Nikolaos Pappas will answer. Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the news can indeed be burning, because we all believe that the refugee crisis and the economic crisis are at the moment the most serious issues, but also the rules of parliamentary democracy, which is a timeless issue, should not go back. I would like to start by saying that America, which has over a hundred and fifty million people - I do not remember exactly the number - has fewer popular companies than Greece. I would also like to remind you that 12, fourteen years ago a market survey was carried out in Great Britain was supposed to be three thousand people. They paid some individuals to see if their product could move on or not. The poll took place, the polling company said to them: "Yes, you can" and when they cross-checked the evidence - because they paid - and they asked for the names of the pollers and in how they did, they found that 70% of the allegedly polled people were nowhere. This company closed down, paid a fine and never appeared again. It was a company that polled, but also on political issues, such as elections. And I come to this point, Minister, and I sincerely tell you that my motive is not the unjust treatment of our party. I want you to believe me. I have forgotten that, that we have had elections for three consecutive elections, with the psychology of the lost vote. "Doc, don't enter the House, don't be dizzy with us." I would like to refer to some of the figures and remind you of them: there was a polling company in the last elections not to go too far, GPO, where on 18-9, in September when the elections took place, gave 25% of you, in SYRIZA and 25.3% in New Democracy. The result was 35.46% and 28%, i.e. a difference of about eight and a half units stripped it. Let's just say the statistical error is plus-- except two and go to pieces. The referendum, however, has come, Minister, which leaves no doubt at all. And I explain: On 4-7 the company Alco gives 43.4% to 'no' and 44.8% to 'yes'. The company 'GPO' gives 43.2% to 'no' and 47.1% to 'yes'. We all know that the result was twenty-two points difference, 61.31% and 38.96%. I do not belong to those who are talking about prosecutors, about carats, about these things, I do not like and do not like my personal style, but I ask you: do you intend to change the rules in these companies - which I say again, in the hundreds of millions of people, can be almost equal, not to say less, to the ones that exist in Greece - so that they do not grow like mushrooms? And I'm gonna take a second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u4	Of course, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr Nikolaos Papapas, Minister of State, has the floor to answer Mr Papachristopoulos's timely question. You have the floor for three minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papachristopoulos, you are right to say that there are momentary issues, but you too, I believe, are addressing an issue which is extremely important and in this sense it is really worthy of our obligation to deal with it. Do not scratch off, of course, the wound of the number of polluting companies, because the number we have discussed has been very intense lately, and this can give handles for other kinds of criticisms, which have no meaning at this time. Mr Papachristopoulos, the institutional framework is determined by Mr. 3603. But there is also a scientific framework, which is supposed to define the way in which polls are conducted, and this framework concerns the International Code of Conduct, the European Common Opinion and Research Agency and, of course, the ETS, which is the association of polling companies. It seems - and here I am in a position to agree with you - that this framework is not enough, because - bad lies - polls become a policy tool. Their result is a caption, the caption is being asked in a TV panel, and this question of the TV panel seeks to take the form of an undeniable political climate in which everyone - parties, institutions, society - will have to adapt and respond. On 11 January we met with the CEDEFOP and discussed exactly these issues. A public intervention was also preceded by the polling companies, which have just sensed the strongest blow to their credibility, which has arisen from their weakness, not to predict, but to approach and detect the results of the last elections and the referendum. There was an open dialogue, which also concerned the legislative framework, aimed at defending information and protection - I would say - and the research tools and market research themselves, because it is a blow to our democracy that there is a possibility of analytical tools which have been completely swallowed into the eyes of the public in terms of their usefulness. We therefore want to strengthen the regulatory framework, to restrict the phenomena of misleading and to strengthen the in-depth investigation, and I would also like to say to you research published not only in the press, but also on the Internet, where there is even greater immunity. We are waiting for the proposals of the EESC and we want to focus on strengthening supervision of the carrying out of polls. However, I would like to point out that, no matter how much the legislator and market players are in agreement and willing to operate, no one can forbid a mediator from ordering a poll to a non-EDN member company. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I will need ten seconds, Mr President. So, unfortunately, the media are also responsible for the way they choose to present and promote polling. I shall return to my dentistry, Mr Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u7	We all know, Minister, that if we had 'yes', the situation would have been different. It's not just the poll, but there's a lot more that the media did that day. We know what happened, not even the right to self-determination, news was released after 12 o'clock, banks closed down and said, but I don't want to remind you. In other words, there have been incredible things that would historically define the course of a place. I would like to believe that if it were to come out of 'yes' at this time - of course by levering the polls - the government would probably have given up, the political data would have changed. That is why I consider this to be a very important issue, and I would like to put the following two things to the vote: Firstly, I am in favour of private initiative, but under rules. Even for Trump in America, who no one wants him, no one questions polling. I would like to say that they are at least - at least for something bad - right, that is, companies are doing their job right. We're talking about a thousand people, and the new technology that mobile phone confuses with fixed telephony. The framework has changed, science has gone ahead. How reliable can a poll be, which is not even controlled? In the Netherlands, I would like to remind you that there is, if not on line, a confirmation almost a day after a special agency of the Ministry, which controls all the public-private data of the companies and if someone finds it in the Netherlands, they are expelled immediately and fined. I believe that you have a wide scope in front of you, especially with television licences, which is where the biggest game is played, to establish rules for that too. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Papachristopoulos, based on n. 3603 at the National Broadcasting Council, a Register of Ombudsmen and Businesses is maintained. Each body, in order to undertake polls, must be registered. The audit is carried out by an urban non-profit company, and the TENs and representatives of other bodies participate in it. It is this company which can set up committees and carry out any other action to achieve its purpose. The poll data should be submitted there and the company's audit findings go to the National Broadcasting Council. And we are - unfortunately, once again - in an issue that has troubled the National Representation and in total political life, the issue of the discreditation of the independent authorities. Here I think we have another aspect of results, another set of results of this depreciation and a very conscious political choice that there is currently no National Broadcasting Council. So I would tell you that the government's powers to intervene and control are very limited, compared to what public opinion might think. In other words, there is too much competence, too much competence in the National Broadcasting Council. I fear that, as I have said before, we are dealing with political choices here. In the first phase we had the depreciation of the National Broadcasting Council, which was subordinated, which was not staffed, which was not completed, and the decisions of which were - good many times - confronted with the Council of State. I think that this government has shown that it is able to defend the functioning of democracy and institutions. But there is a political relentless reality. In the referendum we had monstrous discrepancies, which I fear are only partially able to be explained by methodological insufficiency and much more by possible divisions. We had, of course, Mr Papachristopoulos, and very serious discrepancies in the September elections. In the September elections, because we were also looking for the reasons, it seemed that the polling companies' leaders made this methodological assumption, that abstention would hit mainly - and, rather, only - the SYRIZA party. It was a case, which I very much fear had other types of springs, not purely scientific, unfortunately. In other words, such a result cannot be recorded. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In closing, therefore, politicians must stop moving from visions and major goals to day-to-day policy management with a guide to polling. Instead of wanting things to go somewhere for the home and the people, they try to adapt to the results of the polls. Public opinion polls, too, must stop politicising and media owners must stop trying to serve their business alike interests by carrying out polls. Therefore, yes, of course, a tightening of the institutional framework, but also a responsibility from everyone, both politicians and polluters and media companies. You know, Mr Papachristopoulos, there is a much stricter punishment than any law could provide for. Unreliableness, inconvenience, talking and no one's paying you any attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Minister of State, Mr. Pappas. Before we move on to the debate on the next questions, I would like to inform the House that the 15th with number 630/8-32016, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, on the amount of delayed loans granted to PEGASOS, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. Likewise, the fifteenth question under number 602/1-32016 in the Second Cycle of the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Assent of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the abundance of refugees - non-legal immigrants in Kastelorizo, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister, as the Minister is abroad and specifically in the United States. The sixteenth, under number 594/29-2-2016, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis, on the draft merger - abolition of primary health care units, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. We enter the seventeenth year under number 595/29-2-2016 topical question of the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the rental of forest fire-fighting helicopters. The timely question will be answered by Deputy Minister Nikolaos Toskas. Mr. Bukkaro, you have the floor to develop your question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u11	Minister, the question has been tabled since 21 February. A few weeks have passed, but I believe that it remains timely. It's about the rental of fire-fighting helicopters. As you will be aware, our country has been renting firefighting helicopters every year since 1999, which are American and Russian construction. That's what's on the world market. From 1999 to 2011, the process was carried out through international competitions, with absolute transparency and was compatible with European legislation. From 2012 we have the involvement of a naval organisation, which is NATO Maintenance and Supply Agency - let's call it NAMSA from the outset, for the economy of the debate - which enters the competitive processes and from 2012 to 2015 effectively implements the competition on terms, which, in our view, are not so transparent, because it does not fall under Community law as a Natian organisation. In fact, in January 2012, with an amendment to n. 4058, Article 43, an amendment by the Ministers of Sahinides, Chrysochoidis and Ottona, gives further aid to the companies selected through NAMSA for the fire-fighting in Greece, i.e. the possibility of a 50% advance of the project. A guarantee letter is completely ignored, and we know that for any public work and any provision to the public by each Greek businessman it is necessary to pay the guarantee letter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In 2015, it is done in the same way. And you come this year for the fire extinguisher of 2016 to extend the 2015 contract with the same Canadian company, SKYLINK, while no such legal option is offered from last year's contract, and you are actually giving this project, while you had all the time to make an international tender, and while you are well known, Mr Minister, that at least one other company has sent you a letter - both to you and to the leadership of the Firehouse - and it says through this letter that it can offer better terms than those of the last three years. I'm asking you this question, Minister, because for these procedures it was SYRIZA who talked about scandal, scandalous contracts...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u12	Complete the question and submit your question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u13	I shall conclude in two seconds, Mr President. SYRIZA was talking about scandals, scandalous and opaque contracts and even five of your Members - Mrs Kafantaris, Mrs Diakaki, Mr Dritsas, Mr Tsukalas and Mr Panagioulis - had asked an extensive question with a number of questions. And you come in this year and you're assigned. Why didn't you make an international competition, Minister, while you had the time? You made a contest that was deemed incomplete. By 11 January, the tenders were submitted and, instead of repeating the tender, you extended the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u14	Mr Toskas, Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, Mr Bukkoro, you are well aware of the importance that this government and the Ministry, to which I stand, attach to the issues of transparency. In your question, which concerns the extension of the 2015 air-fighting contract and for 2016, you will allow me to say that it is not accurate. It is not accurate, because on 1 December 2015 an electronically open tender was opened for the lease of seven middle-type helicopters with four thousand litres of capacity, to meet the requirements of the 2016 forest fire extinguisher, on the basis of the award criterion for the lowest price and the option for one year, and no one came. This tender was cancelled on 19 January 2016. It was barren, since there was no interest in any company during the period laid down, during which the tender was electronically posted. It is noted that no company submitted a proposal, observation, question or objection to the tendering procedure. After the above development of the procedure and taking into account the fact that the open tenders, in order to be implemented, will take at least six months and only if no objection is raised - because if there is no objection, we will go to eighteen or twenty-four months, as this act has shown, and so we will be staying in the summer without the possibility of air-fighting - the extension of the existing contract has been chosen as the most predominant option. It was considered necessary to use the former NAMSA and the present NSPA of the naval organisation, which has been used in recent years as it makes tenders and procedures with too many countries and thus achieve good prices. This agency determines which company is carrying out the mission, which we are asking for. So we have nothing to do with any Canadian, American, Russian or any other company. We don't care. The Greek State is not involved in which company will be selected. This company, from now on, moves forward in the procedures that have been followed and in previous years, because, unfortunately, we do not have the luxury of constantly repeating endless competitions, which will not lead us anywhere, and we will find ourselves in the anti-nuclear period without helicopters. The rest in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Bukkoro, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u17	Minister, I honestly cannot understand how your certainty that you are committed to transparency and, on the other hand, your finding that we do not have the opportunity to make continuous international competitions. I must tell you, Minister, that last March came to the Ministry of Interior of the European Commission, which met with representatives of the Ministry of Interior and with members of the independent procurement authority. There in a very strong tone the step taken by the European Commission has told you to comply with European legislation so that our country does not continue to trample down the European directive 18/2004, which means making an international competition. You have, in other words, had the European Union's position since last March and you have had sufficient time to change things, which your party had previously denounced as a scandal. I mentioned the question - and I think you have read it - of the five Members of SYRIZA since July 2013. From there on, Minister, you did not say it clearly, but you suggested it that, when the competition was cancelled by number 16/2015 on 19 January 2016, there was some expression of interest or noise. Obviously, you refer to the letter I mentioned in my prototype, which you and the management of the firefighting body have received from an interested company, which at least claims to be able to offer better terms. That alone, Minister, proves that if you had repeated the competition, we would have a second company concerned immediately, which means better terms. NAMSA, therefore, is not controlled by Greek legislation. It is obliged to comply with European law, we do not have the possibility of judiciary for anything that goes wrong with this company, SKYLINK, which has applied for bankruptcy, Minister, in Canada since 2013 for debts of EUR 150 million. Aren't we not at all concerned at a time when the country is plundering and could the Greek companies also participate in this competition and much more to achieve better conditions? When I speak for the third time, Minister, I say this because you yourself have denounced all this as scandals. Aren't you worried about that? The previous contract with ‘SKYLINK’ via NAMSA offers even a legal option to extend it? No one, Minister, for it is clear that it is only for the fire extinguisher of 2015 and has no right to any extension, that is, no extension. As for the time-consuming international competitions, when there is programming and planning, the suffocating time margins, Minister, can be overcome. Finally, as far as the money paid by the Greek State is concerned, you say that we have nothing to do with any of us, we have something to do with NAMSA. Of course you do, because the Greek State pays, regardless of whether these funds are national or European, and we should all be more careful when we assemble such large public projects, Minister. They don't have any personal tops what I'm saying. After all, something has been wrong, as you said, in the past, but I wonder when it will be corrected, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u18	Thank you to the New Democracy MP Christo Bukoro. He responds, secondly, by Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Nikolaos Toskas. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Buquoir, I'm following procedures, and that's our difference. Any letter came from any company - and I am not talking about names of companies, but I am referring to procedures - after the competition, I am sorry, but it makes no sense for me. For me, the dates, the competitions, the procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u20	Would it make sense to have published the contest...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u21	Any company that says it's doing wonders, doing nice things and sending a letter. I'm not taking any notice of her at all. There are procedures in which any company can come and make its offer. From that point on, if we put down the dates - I am sorry, but it is not very much for you - if I speak for eighteen months of a procedure - I have already spoken - or twenty months, these procedures for this year should have taken place since 2014. We are currently launching open competition procedures for the summer of 2017, because this is how we plan and that is how things should be planned in this place. From that point on, I don't care for the first time, if you want, I hear the names of the companies...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u22	Why didn't you start the process last year, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Buquoir, we will proceed in accordance with the procedure. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u24	From that point on, I have no knowledge of alpha or beta company, it doesn't burn me. I'm interested in keeping the procedures. I told you what will happen for this year, I told you what we are planning for 2017 in the legal procedures and from there on, these procedures will be observed. The cost you ask in your question is well known. It's about 5.110,000 euros. The total cost of air-fighting will be around EUR 16 million. We plan on the basis of the money that is available in the budget and on the basis of the procedures. We are not interested in companies and we are not interested in letters. We keep the procedures and nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two applications for a short-day leave. MEP Mr Constantine Koukodimos asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u26	The House approved the requested permission. Parliament also called for a short-day absence from abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u27	The House approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the second question under number 652/11-3-2016, first question by MP I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the role of NGOs in dealing with the refugee and immigration problem, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, as Mr. Musalas is abroad. The third under number 657/15-3-2016 topical question of the First Cycle of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the plan to address the health needs of refugees in Idomeni, is not debated due to an impediment by the Minister. The fourth under number 669/15-3-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the biomass power plants in the Municipality of Gortyna in Heraklion Crete, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The sixth question under number 662/15-3-2016, first question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Katsiantonis, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the stagnation of the prospects for the development of medical tourism in Greece, is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment, as Ms. Koudoura is abroad and specifically in Miami at the International Cruise Fair. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, a hundred and two students from the PALASKA Education Centre. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The fifth will be discussed under number 666/15-3-2016 timely question of the first question of the Member of Parliament for the Flash of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the delay in the procedure of the bachelorship of irregular citizens of third countries in the rural economy. The question will be answered by the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos. Mr. Kocket has the floor for two minutes to develop his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. As you are well aware, thousands of foreign workers are employed on farms throughout the country. These foreigners, whether illegal or lawful during their stay, are illegal in terms of status. Many farmers have a real need for foreign aid. Recently, Parliament voted for an amendment to introduce the works council, which would induce revenues to the OGA. But for the farmer himself, it would also be a basic instrument for reducing costs. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] This is a regulation which is extremely important. However, while it was voted, the work process is too late. You ask this question, Minister, why is the entire process of establishing and speeding up the works?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u29	Thank you Mr. Kokalis, Member of the Independent Greeks. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer for three minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u30	My dear colleague, your position shows the need to legalise these people through the introduction of the works council. I should like to begin by stressing that agriculture in Europe - not only in Greece - is largely based today, yesterday and yesterday, on these people. These people, therefore, unfortunately because of their illegal residence, often exist - I believe that Greece is less - and an exploitation. I say, to start from the beginning, that the most important thing to do is to defend these people's democratic rights. In the first place, this is an attempt. Another issue that is extremely serious about the rural area is that the wages paid to these people since they are undeclared as jobs create a problem for the farmers themselves, since they cannot be used as operating expenses in their operation, which means lower production costs. At the same time, of course, Greek farmers are also at risk of imposing maximum fines, which exceed EUR 15 000 per person, because they are unable to use the ergonomie. We are therefore bringing this regulation in line. Already in the cooperative bill, which is currently heading towards the Committee on Production and Trade, the relevant regulation exists. This regulation, of course, in addition to the benefits I have told you before, will also ensure additional resources in the OGA, because this is a matter today in the rural area, as far as the insurance part is concerned. Of course, as I have said from the outset, this regulation does not stumble anywhere, it does not have a problem either with the European Immigration and Asylum Pact. In the end, I would say that at a time when Greek society is facing a budgetary crisis, this process will be in favour of a positive response. Now, I agree with you that there is a delay in this arrangement. Let me tell you in my denture who are responsible for this delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Red, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u32	Minister, this regulation achieves a level playing field - and I repeat the word 'equivalent' - without prejudicing any right, three things: Firstly, the alien's right to the legal residence and exit of the farmer and the income of the OGA. We therefore have three main pillars, without prejudicing one, equally: the farmer saves costs, which the previous governments have so far not brought, because - badly lies - on agricultural land most are foreigners. Secondly, the OGA will have revenues. And thirdly, foreigners who offer jobs in our country will be legalised. The fine, Minister, for illegal employment - because one can stay legally but not have a work permit - is EUR 10 000. And nobody gets away with it. By finding out by the police that someone works there, you know that in the courts too, he doesn't have any luck. It is therefore a regulation that this government brings, but it must not be delayed. This is what farmers, who listen to us and see us, to calculate and to think that this government really wants to help the main-professional farmers and those who offer the earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Red. The Minister will close the answer to the current question, Mr Apostolos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, because we have to say things by their name, I must tell you that we in the plan, which we have submitted to the institutions for strategic rural development, describes the mistress as a tool in particular to address the need for employment of these people in the rural area but, of course, undeclared work. So, in fact, we had to send our proposal to the institutions and wait for their reply. So at the same time that we are sending this proposal, the head of the Eurovocatelet to the European Parliament of the Party of Police Vice-Presidents, New Democracy - because I want to be clear - Mr. Manolis Kefaloniannis, together with the party's sectoral directors in the agricultural section, Mr. George Kasapidis and tax policy, Mr. Apostolos Vesyropoulos - by exploiting the concern of the citizens, because there is the refugee problem and the problem with migrants and wanting to harm the xenophobic reflexes of the Greek citizen - came to ask a question - the Member of Parliament and the others to agree - on a question which Mr Tsipras is following when he wants to use the petition as a legalisation passport or an invitation to illegal economic immigrants? So you realise that at the same time we are faced with a letter asking for explanations. Nevertheless, the explanations were given and it was really understood that this world is not the world that has something to do with all that is happening with refugees and immigration at this time, but a world that has been offering what we have said for years, both in the countries of the European Union and, of course, in Greece. This document will then be submitted to you. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] After a few days New Democracy announced some proposals. I will then present the document to you to see what a craving is that happens to a party, which - supposedly tomorrow - wants to take responsibility for the rural area. In one of the eleven points of the communication it says "... for the invitation of foreign land workers and the payment of the bachelor, which reduces the taxable income of farmers and brings income to the insurance system". At the same time, i.e. when it's for other kinds of consumption, yes, they agree with the bachelor. I mean, at some point, we have to be serious. We are bringing regulation and we will support it, because we believe that it benefits both the rural area and the Greek economy, and above all it defends these people, who must at last also have the same democratic rights as those of the rest of the country's workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u36	I would ask that these documents be submitted, because farmers should know who does not want to be a bachelor in the rural area.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u37	Of course, Mr. Red. Minister, please submit the relevant documents in the Minutes so that they can be used accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u38	I am speaking, Mr President, on all the relevant documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u39	Next is the first with number 654/15-3-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the recovery from the Greek State directly from Greek farmers of State aid amounting to EUR 421 million in the period 2008-2009, following the decision of the European Court of Justice of 8 March 2016. The timely question will be answered by the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos. Here, Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the illegal state aid granted between 2008 and 2009, known as the ‘Hatzigakis package’, which was declared incompatible with the internal market, according to the definition of the committee, as early as December 2011, despite the latest objections raised by our country on this matter, were found to be very recently by the European Court of Justice. In its irrevocable judgment of 8 March 2016, the European Court of Justice rejected them as unfounded by Community law. Thus, the Greek State is obliged to recover this aid directly from the farmers, and as a result the Greek State must recover from about seven hundred twenty-five thousand farmers the sum of EUR 421,000,000 of these unlawful allowances. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The effects of the micropolitical choices, which characterized the function of the New Democracy and which the Hatzigakis package is only part of it, appear in a very difficult period for farmers. The recovery of this aid is another burden for our country's farmers on the continuation of the production process. So you ask, Minister: Firstly, what action do you intend to take to ensure that these recoverys do not lead to a further drop in the production process of agricultural products, particularly small producers in our country, which are also a large majority, and to which this aid does not exceed a small amount? And, secondly, on the basis of the information on the total amounts of financial corrections and withholdings imposed on Greece over the last decade and established, but also their amount by aid scheme, year and cause of penalty, what action has the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food taken in order not to repeat the reasons for charging fines and the loss of valuable resources for the development of the primary sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Arachovite. Ladies and gentlemen, before the Minister comes to his reply, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the Parliament, since they participated in the educational programme of the "Worker of Democracy", organized by the Foundation of Parliament, twenty-one students and two students and two trainers from the School of Artists of Nice. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] For three minutes the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Apostleu has the floor to answer Mr Arachovitis's timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u42	My dear fellow Member, the negative impact of the policy pursued in the rural area over the last twenty-five years find their most characteristic expression in the charges and financial corrections that the government is called upon to serve and, ultimately, the farmer himself, the Greek society itself. We have a long way to go, we will have to deal with many years, because this is a very big deal. In this case, with the judicial decision concerning the Hatzigakis package in 2008-2009, our judicial capabilities have been exhausted. Why? Because the government at the time ignored its contractual obligation to inform the European Commission that it would give state aid to seven hundred and twenty-five thousand farmers of EUR 411,000. Why am I saying that? Because if he made this move before giving the money and documented the necessity - because it was a time when the rural area had a problem - we would not be in the current situation. However, because this judgment was expected and because we were too pressed to start with the recoverys, we started the relevant negotiations. That is why, at the end of the day, the amount that we have to recover today is much smaller. We have used various tools, such as de minimis and more, and finally today our obligation is no more than EUR 215 million. The main thing, however, is that we have effectively exempted the vast majority of Greek farmers, since with today's data only ninety-five thousand have to pay the previous sums. We are obliged to enter this process at this time. In the first place, therefore, because we will continue to negotiate for all ninety-five thousand farmers, so that much of them do not suffer the consequences, we are starting today. And with a joint ministerial decision, which we are working on right now, which comes as a result of the relevant law, which we voted on just before Christmas, we come and plan to address some 12 000 farmers. And we will try to recover more than EUR 5,000, that is, those who have taken more than EUR 5,000, but also by excluding up to EUR 5,000 to everyone. We therefore believe that we shall avoid further burdens. We're entering a consultation. And, of course, from our side, it seems that we are already entering the recovery procedure. But we have a long way to go, as I have told you. We don't just have the Hatzigakis package. We have more packages.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u43	You will continue in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u44	I should just like to stress that this process and all the subsequent procedures will also come in the Committee on Production and Trade, so that all the political forces take responsibility and place themselves in this particular problem. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arachovite, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you have said, and as I have said in my question, the total amounts of financial corrections and withholdings, which have come to the country in recent years, amount to too many millions. If I remember correctly, the total account passes 3 billion. This sum of 3 billion is an unthinkable figure, which accounts for almost all the first pillar of the new CAP. Well, what happened in the field of subsidies for farmers and for cooperatives over the years, which have led to fines and charges, cannot continue, as is understandable and especially under these conditions, which the country is experiencing. I would therefore like you, if you have the information, to give us what these aid schemes were, the year and the reason why these corrections and withholdings have come in the last decade and what action has been taken by the Ministry, the political leadership, so that we do not have such phenomena again. As far as we know, 2015 was the first year in which our country had no corresponding fines and charges. Despite the delay in the implementation of the new CAP, we were the first country in the European Union to which subsidies were granted, the basic payment was made, and even without fines. So please develop to me what actions you have taken so that since 2015 we do not have such phenomena that will "pay it" both by the Greek farmer and by the Greek taxpayer. Because, at the end of the day, these amounts turn to the national budget, so the Greek taxpayer in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr Arachovitis, Deputy Laconia of SYRIZA. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Apostleu. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Comrade, we have a long way to go. What I want to testify to is that the Hatzigakis package is what is currently on the path. With regard to recovery, charging, we have two other cases. It is the short package - we are linking them to Ministers, but this is the case - which concerns aid amounting to 108 million, mainly for fifty-four cooperative organisations - cereal aid. There is also another package, which comes from earlier, the Moraite package, which concerns over 500 million and is the responsibility of the cooperatives. That's a huge problem. Because if we have individual farmers in front of us, with whom we can come to a debate, in a consultation, we are trying to put things in a recovery process as painless as possible. So there, in the relevant debate with the Commissioner, I have tabled a phrase which may have been misunderstood by him: 'If you do not have it'. It is such a situation today in all these cooperatives - perhaps in the bill we are discussing next week - that you do not know where, who and what to do. That's what you're talking about. Financial corrections and fines are another procedure. And we'll see her. If we have a coherent approach to them, we are given the opportunity to reopen the negotiations. That's what we want to do. What I want to submit here is a letter that we received at the end of October 2015, which is unprecedented in terms of its content. The European Commission is now saying: 'The purpose of communication is not to review all possible legal and factual arguments put forward by the authorities to avoid any recovery...'. And it goes on: "You haven't recovered a single sum until today that starts in 2002. Not only was there no negotiation in this respect, but the Greek authorities avoid discussing these issues." So, as you can see, when the final sentence comes, as is the case with the Hatzigakis package, things are very difficult. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, for all these cases, and for fines, we will continue the negotiations, by trying as much as possible, with a good climate that exists and at the same time with a mood from our side, to solve the problem. Indeed, as you mentioned, in 2015, after four to five years of continuous fines, particularly relating to pastures, i.e. over 320-350 million per year, for the first time our country did not suffer a relevant fine. That means she did her job well. So we're putting things in a classroom. We believe that the final solution will only be given through this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u49	Thank you to the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Apostleu. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-three students and apprentices and five professors from the Kilkis High School and from the Murion Kilkis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move to the sixth under number 593/29-2-2016 topical question by Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the additional works of the Bramian Hierapetra dam. Mr Evangelos Apostolos will reply to the timely question by the Minister, Mr Evangelos Apostolos. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor to develop his timely question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. We will be talking today about the Lassithi Prefecture, namely the Bramianou or Bramian Ierapetra dam, which since 1986 has contributed significantly to local development, so that the region can acquire dynamic crops which contribute greatly to the national income and, of course, to the region's living standards, to employment and, more generally, to the local economy. Over the years there has, of course, been a series of initiatives and projects to strengthen the dam. But two-three years ago it was found by the competent authorities that a series of support projects were needed to enable the dam to obtain the necessary capacity, so that the forty-five thousand acres, fifteen thousand of which were glasshouses, about a million olive groves and other crops, could be irrigated, but also to support the water supply of the area. These projects entered a study which was intended to complete the necessary studies for licensing. In this sense, what I am asking the Minister today is, at what stage are these studies, which were estimated to have a project budget of about 17 million. The proposal and the opinion were put forward that it could be financed by the Rural Development Programme of the Ministry of Rural Development. Let us see today at what stage we are and how the armouring of this project progresses in order to enable it to serve the needs of rural production in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. In the timely question, as I said before, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostlelos, will answer. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u52	For the need for the specific remaining projects and in general for the treatment of water shortages observed in Crete, I would really say that until now the Ministry of Rural Development has not done what this region needs. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Especially with regard to the works of the Bramianos dam, the Ministry was included in the Agricultural Development Programme 2007-2013 the Act entitled "New Pipeline of Water Transfer from Myrtos hydrolepsy..." - you know them more well, Mr Kegeroglou, because they are locally - "... Bramian dam about fifteen kilometres long" a total budget of 16,275,000 euros. The above-mentioned operation had two sub-projects. Firstly, a study of new water transmission pipelines from the Myrtos D3 dam of Bramianou, as I told you about fifteen kilometres long, a budget of 775 000 euros. Second, construction of new water transmission pipeline from the Myrtos D3 dam of Bramian about fifteen km in the budget. As part of the first sub-project, the study, which is in the process of completion and up to 31-12-2015, which closed down the previous programme, was drawn up, appropriations amounting to EUR 289 000. The amount remaining to be settled for the financial year will be repaid in the context of the financial elements of the new programming period. I note that in the new programming period, at central or regional level, the requests to be collected from the whole territory will be evaluated and prioritised according to the requirements of the new Rural Development Programme. We are currently in the process of gathering all of this, and at the same time, because there are projects that go to the new Rural Development Programme as commitments that have been made, you understand, that I cannot tell you more about this. But in the design it has and in the orders given, the specific projects relating to the part of Crete on the issues of water shortage management will be a priority for the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the fact that you recognize the need for this project is positive. I think that by studying the matter further, you will see that it is up to the projects that have a direct priority to complete the necessary projects for the Bramian dam we have both spoken about, the need to support the region's dynamic crops. But I have to inform you that it was not just the Ministry of Rural Development which had completed projects and had gone ahead. You, of course, have the overall competence for irrigation and infrastructure projects, but the Ministry of Infrastructure, which was also involved, from what is seen in some studies. And I would ask for cooperation with them, because the Ministry's Directorate D7 had carried out studies. This is the Improvement Department. In fact, as I was informed by the TWG of this great irrigation project, the director had visited - not once - the area so that the projects could proceed. So what is needed first of all is cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure. Let's see that the need for aid can be covered by increasing the drainage capacity of the pipelines that already exist from the Kalamataian river and Myrtos hydro-walls. And of course, by building two small dams in the settlement of Myths of the Myths of Myrtle Myrtle and of course all the necessary works needed for the overall development of the project. There are proposals and studies, which are related to the issue of casings, to deal with the problem of grinding and, of course, to the existence of flooding energy from the dam itself. We also have studies to do with the management of water resources to meet the water needs of the Municipality of Ierapetra, because we are talking about water of good quality and of course of the wider area. So what we could say in order to be able to proceed with the project is direct cooperation with the respective Ministry of Infrastructure, to see if it continues to have the possibility and to contribute and what parts this will take, regardless of where they will be financed and, of course, to look at the issue of the new Rural Development Programme which has corresponding funding, so that this very important project for the region can be completed, in order to solve issues that have to do with the cost of production. You know very well that with the new costs - fair and unfair - in the field of farmers themselves, but in particular the costs of the whole agricultural product - production costs must immediately take steps and initiatives so that we can reduce at least from other sources this cost of production. Your position as the Ministry of Rural Development and the respective Ministry of Infrastructure with which you must cooperate is therefore very important. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u55	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u56	Mr Colleagues, I will not disagree at all with what you have put in your position. The need to complete this project is proud, how much more when we talk about an area like Ierapetra, which is really innovative, especially in fruit and vegetable crops and generally in rural areas. This problem of parallel responsibilities, if there is no agreement, is a problem of governmental operation, which is truly unthinkable. The dams are also dealt with by the Ministry of Infrastructure, and the Ministry of Rural Development is also involved in the dams, of course the Ministry of the Environment. Indeed, it is incomprehensible because, let us say, through the Rural Development Programme we are planning specific work, specific projects. Is it possible at the same time, since - and I am not only referring to dams, in general to infrastructure projects - the Ministry of Infrastructure is building roads, not having regard to the fact that there is a rural road next door, which can help to engrave, execute or otherwise? So the need for understanding is great, how much more so for this particular part of the country's water potential, when more than 85% of the water resources of the Ministry of Rural Development are irrigated. So we should certainly make an effort in all the infrastructures. Water supply is of course a very serious issue, but where we are talking about productive reconstruction, we are talking about reducing production costs, and we need to make an effort. To what, at least, I can commit, is to what we have planned and plan to go to the new programme, that is to say, to continuing the commitments that have been made, that they will be implemented as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u57	Thank you. Before we go to the next question, to close this chapter, I would briefly say what questions will not be discussed. The fifth under number 663/15-3-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the participation of Greek entrepreneurs in the increase of the capital of Greek television channel and the delay of loans granted to the company "PHYGASOS SA" is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Also, the eighth Question No 628/7-2016 by Mr Mavroudi Voridis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the "prohibition of the speech of the Metropolitan of Laureate and the Mediterranean", Mr Nicholas, in the 15th Single High School of Thessaloniki, is not discussed due to an obstruction of the Minister. The ninth under number 626/7-3-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the problems created in the operation of all the social structures and services of the municipalities throughout the country, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The tenth under number 633/8-32016 a topical question from a colleague from Heraklion Crete the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Finance, concerning compensation for the officials involved in the organisation, support and conduct of the tests of qualifications and behaviour of the candidates, is not discussed, after consultation of the MP and Minister. Eleventh question under number 634/8-32016 by Mr. Karditsas, Vice-President of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Chrysolas Katsavrias - Siropoulou to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the reopening of the Police School and the Posting of the Police Department of Karditsa, is not discussed, in consultation with the Minister. The eighteenth under number 573/23-2-2016 topical question by MP Larissa Vassilis Kokkalis of the Independent Greeks to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the need for more complete information to PPC customers on the possibilities and protection offered to sensitive social groups, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The first 2828/1-2-2016 question by my colleague from the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the introduction of a distinct limit for vain chromium in drinking water, is not discussed in Minister and MP consultation. The second 2808/193/1-2-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. Finally, the third question by No 305/15-10-2015 by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the need for a government's legislative initiative on the pension and prosperous issues of MEPs, is not discussed due to a blockade by the Member and not by the Minister, as we have been informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u59	Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u60	I wanted to ask which Minister has declared a coma about the Ministry of Health's question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u61	It doesn't write, Mr. Kegeroglu. I will read it to you all: "Application for documents, question by MP Heraklion...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Xanthos or Mr. Paulakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u63	It doesn't say which minister. I'll see her again, Mr. Kegeroglu. It reads “the 2808/193/1-2-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion, is not discussed due to a blockade...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u64	Some minister's office called the Questions Division and said he's got a coma. Which one did he get? That's my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u65	I read you what it says. There's no point in that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u66	This is not about you, Mr President, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u67	I know. I get it. Series is the seventh under number 613/3-2016 topical question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michus to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the destruction of the catch by vintzotrats. Mr Michu's timely question will be answered by the President-in-Office, Evangelos Apostolos. Mr. Micho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, it is a matter that concerns you in some way for some of the statements you have made. To start with, in our home country there are about twenty-seven thousand coastal fishing vessels, of which several are very large, except for some which have been cut in recent years, which have been financed to cut. Vinzotras because of their fishing gear are the destruction of fishing and marine ecosystems. As we know and you know very well, from Evia the rugrana breaks up nests, spoils the genus, spoils everything. There is neither egg left below nor nothing is left and the seaweed that is food for fish is ruined. Vinzotras in their passage - as I said before - plunge the whole bottom and leave nothing, uncontrollablely fishing in large quantities of all kinds of fish, regardless of size. Fish can't grow. In no country of the European Union is allowed to be vivo-trailers. Greece is only allowed. They were cut off for a while and brought them back. On 4-1-2015, by decision of the former Minister for Rural Development, Karasmani, on the Samaras Prime Minister, in the middle of the pre-election period, restores vivotra to active action for vote. On 9-3-2015 a group of fishermen from all over Greece visited you on this issue and you on the same day decided to ban their release. At a meeting that took place at the time, you said to them: 'This is an abortion, and that is why, today, I forbid the vetoes'. So why did you allow the vivo-tracters to re-activate again? On the other hand, is there any intention of fishing going through the hands of the multinationals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the Parliament is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and three educational sessions from the High School of Thessaloniki. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Evangelos Apostolos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u70	A small correction, Mr Colleague: With the information we have, the number of coastal fishing vessels is much lower. It's about fourteen thousand four hundred and of them fishing vessels that have the Vinzotrat tool are about two hundred and eight forty. Indeed, the vivotra has stopped as a tool with national legislation since June 2008. Indeed, on the eve of the 2015 elections, the former Minister of Agriculture gave the possibility for vinzotras to orchestrate the bottom of the country without any plan, without any restriction. That is why I, too, immediately banned fishing for a month before the end of the fishing year. I would like to say to you that the tool is allowed to function, but only in accordance with the provisions of the European Council Regulation in question on the minimum distance from the coast and on the opening of the net eye - now these are details specifically concerning the fishermen - but on condition that a national fisheries management plan has been established by that gear. So here comes the problem. In order to plan this national plan, it must definitely have timely and up-to-date scientific data, which must be licensed to obtain through this catch and in specific areas. This activity, therefore, of test fisheries for research purposes, was considered necessary by us for approaching, supplementing the scientific data in support of the national plan that we were preparing for the vinchotra. Keep in mind that such derogations have been applied in many other countries of the European Union, in many other Mediterranean countries. Indeed, by our own decision, I would stress once again that we have given the possibility of this fishing activity for scientific purposes. It was for about two months, it ended on February 25. We are now in a state of data processing. We'll see, we're not ready yet. Of course, I do not want to deny anything that has affected me for this scientific function to be given. We are experiencing an unprecedented financial crisis and, as you can see, giving these two hundred and fifty families a leave for a month to fish, on the pretext - I want to be honest - and this procedure - was something that we had to take seriously. In my dentistry, I'm going to talk to you about what will happen from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Micho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u72	Thank you. First of all, I stressed and said that out of the twenty-seven thousand ships have been cut off, there are fewer left. I didn't know the exact number, you told me. I have too many complaints from Evia, Boeotia, Fthiotidas, from Agios Konstantinos, from Marathon, from Nea Macri, about hunting made to small fishermen from the port, the illegality that is being carried out at their expense, leaving them alone with fines and leaving the vintage trawls, but also bottles coming down either for shells or for fishing, because some pay a half or in some cases, as in Evia - I will soon bring you evidence - where there are politicians behind. On the other hand, you left ninety-four research vessels. And we're not talking about simple families, these are big boats. Ninety-four ships are two-three fleets, you didn't leave five. All these vessels went, not only to the fishing vessel of Chalkida, to too many fish auctions and unloaded the fish. So, what were they doing there? What did they go to explore? It's ninety-four ships, Minister, it's not five. And all those fish were sold to the fish auctions, I'm telling you again. They called me at four o'clock at night from the fish auction of Chalkida and told me "if you don't have a job and you can, come see what they're getting rid of." On the other hand, all the bays of Greece and our seas - mainly the bays, such as Evia - are huge farms. If you really want to do something, only gently throw in and take out the wind turbines and vintages out of this sea, in two years' time, with research that has been done, only Evian can feed, not only Greece, but also export. But on the other hand, too much has been said, as have former Greek fisheries Commissioner, who is behind multinationals, to get rid of the laws that will come and what you, the vibrants, all the small fishermen and the multinationals will come. As we know, the aim of the multinationals is to dominate everything. That's how it's going to be with the vegetarians, and there's going to be some big fleets in our country, and they're gonna leave nothing. And then, of course, they'll have the farms. So do something. Talk to the port officers to leave coastal fishermen - who are the afflictors and go for a dish of food and a small piece of money, which many have no oil to put into their machines - to do their job. Remove the veins completely - subsidize them to cut them - since huge catastrophe occurs. And you as a party, not only as Minister, are in favour of ecology. So we need to have a generator in the seas and there is a fish. As long as there's vintage trawlers, there's no way in a few years to watch fish. We'll only eat what they bring us ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u73	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u74	Fishing for research purposes ended on February 25th. The regulation allows catches to go to consumption. Of course, there is one question about coastal fishing, since it is possible, after the abolition of the amateur fishing licence, for anyone who wants to fish. You realise that, in a budgetary situation, this makes it very difficult for people to deal with fishing. In the intervention we are going to take with the draft law on cooperatives, we are tabling an amendment to this effect, restoring the need for amateurs to have a fishing licence. This is an intervention, like others in particular, which facilitates coastal fishermen. I'll see you with the law vote. What I want to say to you is that all these data collected are evaluated in order to complete the national management plan. Now whether or not the particular function of the vivotra is going to continue is something that will arise through the approval of the operational plan or not. I would like to inform you that the first approach I make is that the chances of its adoption are not many. Nevertheless, we will be waiting for the European Commission' s decision, because it is a process that we have to follow. From there on, one of the most stringent conditions that have been laid into this project is the ban on areas where the seabed is covered by the so-called Poseidonian meadows, which especially exist in the Evian Gulf. For us it is a primary issue to map Poseidonian all over the territory. It's a project that's going to be completed. So, having a comprehensive mapping of Poseidonia, having a management plan, whether positive or negative, on the part of the European Commission, we want to serve to protect fish stocks along with the possibility of carrying out this activity a lot of people, particularly in areas that do not have any other income. You realize it's our main target.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Minister. We are now entering the course of the Minister's Questions, Mr. Treasure Alexiadis. I should also like to say that the second question under number 633/11-3-2016 of the New Democracy MP, Christos Bukouros, to the Minister of National Defence, on the Equatorial Air Force, is not discussed due to the legitimate absence of the Minister, who is abroad. We enter the first with number 655/15-3-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Finance, on dealing with the problems in the process of licensing a new generation of tax mechanisms and the unique connection of a taxi with a specific Electronic Mechanism. Mr Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, let us just say, they did not reach them all the other problems that the drivers and taxi owners have each day in winter, part of the whole winter world of the free, real, open economy, are those procedures that make it even more difficult and complex - a crossword really to understand, a complex technical issue - and we obviously have to deal with it. In recent years, due to the tax changes imposed on all citizens and all professional groups, professional drivers and taxi owners have rightly been forced into the direct interconnection of the Tax Electronics Mechanism with the Taximeter, in order to provide proof that they will be taxed and not on the basis of a pretext, a one-off amount. As you know, the procedure for authorising tax mechanisms requires a number of documents and procedures, as do the rest of the public. In particular, only supporting documents are given to obtain an appropriate FIM licence, i.e. a Tax on Electronic Mechanism. The undertaking concerned, in this case taxi owners, submit 10 supporting documents, such as the company statute, a company contract with a construction house, a record of the network of certified and authorised techniques, etc. In order not to spend time, this issue of multiple bureaucracy - mountain must also be addressed on the basis of modern technology. The uniqueness of these tax mechanisms makes the authorisation of the PM, the Tax Electronics Mechanism, a particularly complex process that requires constant vigilance, since any change should immediately inform the relevant DUs. Their memory is replaced when they are paid, i.e. all their lockers are filled, and obviously it is an obligation for suppliers and the state to have products available. In this sense - I will also submit the relevant letter from the Association of Passengers of Thessaloniki's "The ERMIS" - they highlight these two top issues, namely tax memories, Autonomous Financial Units for the Processing of Taximeters and the second that are the same in these taxi meters. First, by Law No.4308/2014, the 1988 Act was repealed and therefore the Ministerial Circular issued with it. A circular must be issued immediately, Minister, which gives the opportunity to change a box, since memory has not been paid and because of the peculiarities we have and we can use lockers used by another operator, but has not been filled, i.e. it has not been filled, the possibility of issuing the famous Z. This is the one issue. And a second is the taximeters, which, as they inform us, have expired.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u77	Keep something for your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u78	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your understanding and time. The taximeter can be connected to a specific unique licensed PHM, Taxi Electronic Mechanism. And because there is, as we have said, a problem in the market for the relevant supply and because there are expected changes from the Ministry, people have remained in the middle. If they continue to move their car, without this interconnection, they are at risk of being fined. If they don't continue, there's a survival problem. Here are my two questions, Minister, to which I have come in my timely question: is the government prepared to go into legislation, which normalises the possibility of transferring the passenger's licence to the public and the corresponding electronics tax mechanism in the context of the fight against tax evasion? Because it is a crucial size to combat tax evasion. And the second question, with which I close, is this: What steps do you intend to take with regard to the change of a PHM box for professional taxi drivers, but also with regard to the use of lockers used by another operator, but without the possibility of issuing G? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u79	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, as you quite rightly said, but it is the big taxi problems, and unfortunately, we add them another problem to the many problems they have and, of course, it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. Bureaucracy is one of these problems. Only the corresponding circular number 1068/2015, which provides for the mechanisms of these mechanisms, is thirty-two pages. I am telling you, to understand what bureaucracy we have to fight in the Ministry of Finance, and unfortunately the business and the citizens. As far as the substance of your question is concerned, I would like to say that there is indeed a typical lack here, on the part of the state, of dealing with an existing problem because we should not have come to that. Good or bad, we've reached this point. At the moment, what the services are looking at and informed me is to extend to specific types of tax electronics - not to all, but to specific types - and to whom to be granted an extension is if there are convictions or complaints for these types, because we have too many instances of convicting drivers or various other responsible taxi operator, etc., who have used types that did not issue or disbursed proof and there were many other problems. Therefore, according to what types of convictions, complaints, etc., we will give an extension or not. I have been assured by the services that this will be given in the next ten or fifteen days at the latest and I will be watching it. We have close cooperation with the representatives from the taxi area, because we do not want to add problems, we want to solve problems. We want these issues to be dealt with. However, we believe that these brief extensions for these types will remove the current deadlock until the release of new ones with the specifications set by the 2012 Circular. This is in terms of the first question. As far as the second question is concerned, the possibility of changing the tax electronics register for professional taxi drivers and the use of a window used by another operator, but without being paid - that is to say - is contrary to the technical specifications by which the existing tax mechanisms have been licensed. More specifically, the change in the box is contrary to POL. 1135/2005, while the use of doors used by another operator, without having been paid, is contrary to Articles of the same Paul, that is to say Articles 15 and 11 of Chapter 2 of the same Paul. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Therefore, this issue cannot be regulated differently, i.e. in such a way as to disregard the institutionalised technical specifications of this particular MULTIP. Furthermore, if we went to such a arrangement, we would have extended for five to ten years the duration of the old types of taximeter electronics, which cannot send data from the GDR, for the irregular operation of which there are already hundreds of convicts of their owners or exploiters. So, if there is a clear answer, I tell you that in ten to fifteen days there will be the extension procedure and the POL committee under number 1068 will be able to give new authorisations and to deal with the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to submit to the Minutes the letter dated 8 March. The answer is given on March 18, and this is due to Tryphoon Alexiadis, who is one of the ministers who come to the House and respond. That's what we have to say. It is a letter dated 8-3-2016 from the Association of ERMIS, signed by the President and the Secretary-General, and I submit it in the Minutes, in order to make all colleagues of the requests of drivers of taxi owners social. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, we need transparency everywhere rather than trying to deal with a problem, to serve some interests. I would like to make it clear - and I think we are communicating in the same spirit - that there is a need for transparency, competition, etc. in order to deal with the problems. You said something about thirty-two pages. I thought that Mr Theocharis has dealt with it - the persecutor of bureaucracy, the former Secretary-General of Public Income DGs - this mountain of bureaucracy and that he has eliminated it. Did he let thirty-two pages be the supporting documents to get a P.M.M.?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u83	Go ahead, because Theocharis will hear, he'll come in and we'll ruin the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u84	No, no, Mr. President. I was amazed at him who stalked the SYRIZA government for bureaucracy and suffering and I hoped that in the previous period he would have eliminated it. Because they're people, they're not civil servants, they're not SYRIZA's subordinates. They're the people of the real economy whom you should...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Triantafylides, you won't have any tolerance to dentistry, you're on the subject of cab drivers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President, for your advice. I now come to the matter where you quite rightly or rightly said that the business group of taxi owners is facing many and different problems. One of these is also suffocating taxation to overtaxation. It is 26% of the first euro, plus the 55% advance for the next year. The scourge of debts to the former TEBE, now the Free Professional Insurance Agency, which has as abrupt the non-issuance of insurance information, also a daily mountain for freelance professionals, including drivers owners of taxi, which in turn blocks other tax outstandings, but also the interruption of provision, even of primary health care for insured persons. These facts, Minister, are relevant problems in all other sectors of the professions and are indeed creating a suffocating vicious cycle. And because you are going to make it clear and societal and Greek society, firstly when it will be tabled, when it will begin, when the new tax returns are started - and I am directly linked to this world of the real economy and the free trade - and secondly, we are listening to a storm of new tax measures. Make it clear that the 2015 revenues to be taxed in 2016 will be taxed on the basis of the data in force in 2015. If it is different, please let us know, Minister, whether there will be new tax measures or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, Mr Papoutsis, it is very clear that this government will not simply be involved in serving any interest, but we will try to reveal and lead to justice any such scandal we find in our way, and there is no way that we can serve neither complications nor any other kind of business. We are barely paying for the fact that we are not good children in such situations and you are from a specific workplace, you know how we pay this fight we are doing. But we're not going to, under any circumstances, succumb to that. In the case of cabs and the rest - because we have a package - to link tax and tax data with tax services - it is not the only thing we are doing, we are going to go through too many such procedures and the House will be informed in detail next time - we want to cross-check this data as much as possible and we do not need to send a workshop of the ILO as before, of the HRC now, in Mykonos to check. Someone can sit in his office and see if a store that has fifty tables has cut five proofs or not. With the interconnection of fiscal cash machines with the GSP we have been too late. It is already ready, it is at the negotiating stage, it is finalized, it comes to Parliament. In many areas, therefore, we are going to link the tax mechanism more closely with businesses. The subject of cabs is a small part of what we're going to do. Unfortunately, in the matter of taxis, we are in a state of frugality creating a problem for these entrepreneurs, and I told you how we are going to resolve this matter immediately. As far as the issue of bureaucracy is concerned, it is a painful story and indeed, we must also pay particular attention to the bureaucracy which is affecting citizens and entrepreneurs and to the bureaucracy that is afflicting the tax mechanisms themselves. I'll describe someday what a verifier needs to do in a case he controls, until the businessman gets to pay, to see where we're wasting time. Now, as far as tax statements are concerned. I would like to respond to something I said yesterday in the Committee on Economic Affairs because I see it coming back to some media. Yesterday, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the amendments with which we are now ending the seminar on what tax declarations on incomes will have in 2015 were tabled. Finish this series and let's start next week submitting tax declarations. Once the relevant law has been taken - from what I have been informed - it is being discussed on Tuesday morning in plenary - once this directive has been ratified, which is a means of amending and taking FEC, we are moving forward immediately. We have no reason to delay the submission of tax declarations. I would like to clarify this: we have no new measure for the incomes of 2015 and for all that they have said, such as retrospective rent tax, retrospective income tax and stuff like that, beyond the legal issue, that you cannot come in 2016 and put taxes on 2015 - that is specific - there is nothing like that. Tax statements are on. Well, specific things. Once the law is taken, the assurance from the General Secretariat of Public Revenue I have is that the date of tax declarations is immediately beginning. And as I said, we start immediately to finish quickly and be able to break the tax obligations in too many months in 2015. For the incomes of 2016, as the Greek Parliament has voted with Law No.4336, we must have new tax arrangements that the Greek Government is currently discussing with the institutions. But they are about the incomes of 2016, they are about the commitments of the country that we entered into with L.4336. That is what we are talking about and we are trying to make as fair and proportionate as burdens on these incomes. Because I hear every day on some radios and income televisions and how many more will be charged, we all understand in this country in previous years when we have had barbaric tax burdens, when we have had cuts in pension and insurance rights, what some media said. And it is hypocrisy now to fight and say for EUR 1,500 and EUR 2 000 and what will happen with these wages. Of course these wages are very important, but we do not see that there is no such thing in the public sector or that there is 2 000 euros in the private sector. Do you know too many people who...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u89	Minister, not a lecture now as a ministry or a Committee on Economic Affairs. I've given you twice a year. Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u90	I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, there will be a burden for the incomes of 2016, but it will be fair and proportionate both from an income level upwards. Thank you very much, Mr President, and you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u91	I left you because it was interesting. I just want to say that it is not just a legal obligation to non-retroactivity, it is mainly due to a constitutional obligation. Not that it's a favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u92	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the northern gallery of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the General School of "Eleftherios Venizelos" Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kegeroglu, they are your compatriots in the broad sense. We now come to the debate on the eighth timely question, which is toward Mr Alexiadis. There are two further questions to Mr Spirtzi and the sitting is closed. The fourth question by number 667/15-3-2016 will be discussed in the context of the second question by the Piraeus MP of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance on the HNPH of building cooperatives. Mr Alexiadis will answer again, and I must say that - I do not know, if it is a coincidence - whenever I presiding, Mr Alexiadis is here, unlike other colleagues. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, I have the floor. Mr. Kegeroglu is in another party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u95	Excuse me, Mr. Kammenos. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u96	Good morning, Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Kegeroglu has four, five questions and remains here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u98	There's no boat to Crete and he's sitting here! In my question today, waiting here an hour for my turn to come and ask the question, I put a title. The title of the question is: Tax despair. I think he will be a cadet not only for the question, but also for many things that will follow, because we will keep going. The Greek state has called on people post-war to buy real estate and recommend building cooperatives. In Greece, more than three hundred building cooperatives operate with over one million members. The only purpose of the building cooperatives is the prefecture, distribution and housing, that is, at some point to take their town permits and build their real estate. The excellent Greek state, which I hope at some point we will put - because we keep putting small stones to build and organize it in order to function with a normality, has brought at least one million members of the building cooperatives to despair and full captive. How? While it gave them incentives to get the properties and buy the land, today the state comes to charge HISBIA for these properties. The tax desperation we have to manage as politicians and women in this House and at this juncture is that in two cases that have come to my office - for reasons of confidentiality, I cannot reveal who the cooperatives are - one cooperative has a fine of EUR 470,000 and the other - because I have the TAXIS paper here - EUR 366,000. Tax despair! Who's the fine established to? The president of the cooperative. What is the responsibility of the president of the cooperative? None. The state is in despair. He sees the co-operative’s VAT, he adds the fine, he goes personal invitation - attention, personal invitation - to the president to put him in prison for 366,000 euros, with the right to reply in fifteen days. The state has another desperation. He can't bring regularity to a million properties. It cannot legally bring them to their property, divide ENVY into a million people and potentially collect EUR 90 million. If the two cooperatives are 400,000 each and 300,000, and if it is 300,000 euros the average, for 300, is 90 million euros. We should collect them. Tax despair! Are we going to collect anything from the potentially EUR 90 million or from the EUR 300,000? Oh, no. Are we going to put the president in jail? Oh, no! What are we? It's not Africa here. I call it indignant, because we need to bring in a normality. Build the million people - who deserve it? Because the exceptional Greek state has made many of these counties forests. They were taken non-forestry, and after two, three, five years another law came and made them wooded. The co-operative paid them and said to him "Now yours is a forest and you can't build it" and HISH comes to the president. He doesn't share anyone. Well, in my dentistry, I'm gonna do and leave it in the Minutes, some analysis of whatever situation. Please very much, because it is about the development of this country, giving permits, building property, and developing the economy. This is a direct and indirect revenue for the State. And for the fines sent by TAXIS, the General Secretariat of Incomes, I will ask Mr Pittsilis a special question. I want him to tell me how he will receive the EUR 300,000-400,000 from the President and whether he is going to put him in jail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u99	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u100	On the subject of ENPI, Mr Papoutsis, I have been called upon to respond to many problems and too many irrationalities. One of these is what we are discussing today. Another is, for example, the issue that has come here in the House with the bankruptcy officer, who has an obligation on the issues of HISPIA. I think that the whole story is involved in what you say in your question about the constant changes in legislation, which has been entangled and afflicted for years by citizens. Unfortunately, we have tax provisions that cause problems. These have been identified and we will try on the new tax that will come on the property issue to deal with these problems, which do not produce any results, except in a disturbance to services and the exchange of cards and bureaucracy and judicial stories. With regard to the specific issue you raise, unfortunately the building cooperatives - with regard to the taxation of property ownership, for that is HNVIA - are treated as other legal persons. This is how the problem starts and problems arise, that we go to the presidents of the cooperatives and that we ask for huge sums. We cannot afford this amount to break into members and have another procedure. As far as the areas you are talking about are concerned, which have been classified as forests, whether they belong to building cooperatives or to any other natural person, the burden is the lowest in comparison to the rest of the land. In this respect, in accordance with Article 3 of HISPIA L.4223, the property for which there was a prohibition of any use, in accordance with the existing urban planning, in particular, temporal weight, rimototopic expropriation or property freezing, is exempted. In addition, an irrevocably ordered or irrevocable judicial decision to release or expropriate property shall be exempted or binding on all types under certain conditions. On the basis of the above, the representatives of the building cooperatives may, after having provided the necessary documentation to the services of the Ministry of Finance, either be exempted or benefit from the corresponding reduction in the enforcement of HPAI, provided that the conditions laid down by the law are met. Finally, as regards the inability to distribute to members of the real estate of cooperatives for tax reasons, the transfer can take place after the tax outstandings have been settled, as would other taxpayers, natural or legal persons. For other issues you have raised, such as town planning, land designations as forests and others, these are the responsibility of other ministries. As far as the title you said - I, of my fifty-six years of age, deal with thirty-six issues of taxation - is concerned, what I would put as a title in the country's tax history is 'the worst is over, the worst comes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President, doctor. We want a doctor, not Mr. Kaklamani's specialty. I don't know if this state needs a psychiatrist, a trophy, a brain massage. We've made findings today, both of us. We can't give a solution. That's clear. We're saying we're not creating a problem. If I were the president of a building partnership and came from the TAXIS of three hundred grand with personality and had a family, I don't know what would have happened to me. I'd have had a stroke, I don't know what I'd do, I'd have gone to Mr. Kaklamani, Mr. Kremastino, to Santa Claus to take me anywhere in the Zoñana to hide. There's a matter. We're creating a serious issue. We may be using the humor we have like Greeks, but the subject is as serious as it doesn't. Three hundred grand to a person for a personal tax attestation is a problem. This has to be solved. Surely, that's not your responsibility, it's the General Income Secretariat. But this is where we rule. And I come as a co-government to control myself, 'cause I'm running. And you know how much work we've done here. We need to solve these three hundred cases, check them out, and there's a stop to the revenue, and not to leave the trillions and get brain diseased by the world. Because, first of all, we will never collect them. Should we have the other one go to court, pay lawyers to say, "Hey, guys, after the law has written him in a psychiatric hospital or in a Sinari, I have no right and should I kill myself?" That doesn't make sense. I don't know what the lawyer says to his lawyer. Tell him what? So we're going to a courthouse, and the judge will have a stroke, too. What will the judge say? Is he going to say "confirm the tax" or is he going to say "I don't want to tell you the tax"? He'll violate the law of wrong law. So the law is wrong and the whole process is wrong. The equation for us economists, even the grocery store, is that it will result in the wrong result. The mistake is that neither we will receive, nor directly will we have any income, building activity, local development, VAT, payroll tax, nor the ergonomie that Mr Apostle said about immigrants. We're not winning anything. We're creating the wrong requirement for the wrong man with the wrong law. We are creating an empire of society and it is not developing - to say it politely - GDP. At some point we have to do something. I'm making myself responsible. Fortunately Mr Spirtzis is here, too, who is in charge of town planning and licensing, and he is also listening to this issue. We need to find a solution, please, because the statements will now come. These are assured debts. We need to find a solution. For me, the solution is not only that man should not go to court without anyone being able to give a solution to anything. The solution is no more than to change the law. We have to comb the law and change it. If we don't change the law, what do we do? Our job is to change the law. That's why the people voted for us to be useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor. I would like to ask you, at the end, after answering the honourable Member and not asking a timely question, since you are here, to answer me from now on. You will read in the newspapers today the financial reports - I do not know if the information is true - that if a citizen goes to cash 500 euros into the bank, they keep him a fee of 1.5%, they give him 495 euros. I don't know if it's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u104	It's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u105	But, if it's true, tell us if they're doing so lawfully and if they don't, what you're gonna do. You have the floor and you'll have a minute more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. In relation to what has been said, Mr Papoutsis, it is very clear and I have said that many times that the tax system we have is not the tax system that can help society grow, businesses be competitive, our country meets the needs that we have before us. We know this and we are trying in the financial framework and with the country's data - because of the agreements we have made and the commitments - to change and make these provisions more sensible. We understand that in too many cases we have mistakes, irrationalities, excesses or situations that do not lead anywhere. Under no circumstances can we overlook that behind this paper you have shown, tragedies are hidden many times, because the free trader, the trader who happened to be president of a cooperative and goes to get tax information to have a return or something else...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u107	It cannot go on!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u108	...we've lived them and talked about the tragedies of people who are rightly indignant and yelling, but we've unfortunately got a certain legal framework. We are trying to take a step - step by step - and we are changing this, we are detecting the problems and we are trying to change this absurdity in the tax system. We are trying to make our tax system more fair, more proportionate, more effective. This is sure of you and the rest of the Members that it is our constant effort. We will also present you with the relevant service documents on this issue and I assure you that this cannot be changed, you understand that we cannot now bring the provisions, but in the new law that will replace the ENPI or, anyway, in the amendments that will be made, these issues will be dealt with to see how we can deal with it. I do not want there to be in any way a feeling that we are going to leave outside the property tax - that is, like HISPIA - some properties. All will be taxed, but they will have to be taxed fairly, proportionately and when there is a cooperative with two hundred co-owners, they will have to pay a ratio to end this story. As far as the issue raised by the President is concerned, unfortunately, Mr President, we have such problems. It's not my responsibility. I've been informed too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u109	I know, just when you're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u110	Unfortunately, there are such absurd arrangements, such unreasonable procedures, such charges. I do not think that these things are helping the Greek economy right now, and the banks and, in general, the credit institutions should understand that as helped by the Greek state in their need, they must also help and it is not possible for the citizen to go and ask him for a commission to change a currency. But, do not go away here in Parliament if you go in and see the ELTA offices, it has a sign saying that if you go to make a credit card transaction, this transaction is charged more than if we do it in cash, when the card has less management cost than cash. It is all these issues that we are trying to deal with as a government and we are on the right track with the banks and these issues are dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u111	May I have the floor for ten seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u112	Here you go, Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u113	The issue you raised on the notes is true. I have already intervened in the Association of Greek Banks. They have made a decision, and there is still a charge of 1.5% - 'from - to' - and there is also for the intercessions. I'll see you here because we're just gonna tell you the truth. But I've intervened to remove it. It doesn't make any sense. I have asked, however, and there is a directive of the Association of Greek Banks on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. 'You're free.' And now we come to the two questions that will be answered by Minister Christos Spirtzis. First we will discuss the third with number 651/11-3-2016 a topical question by Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the completion of the road project "Hraclio - Messara". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Before I go to the question, I should like to ask you to speak to the Ministry of Health, in particular the Minister, in order to come to answer the question concerning the death of small Melina, by exempting the Deputy Minister, even if he had competence, from the involvement and for reasons of self-protecting him, of course, because of a relative relationship with a person involved in the case. I would say, therefore, that Mr Xanthos, who is also in charge - because I asked beforehand who said that he was in the wrong place, and they had both said - to come and answer the specific question that calls for fair answers. It's nothing else. We are neither judges nor anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u116	But keep going now because you ate your one minute. I'll show tolerance. Let's move on. It's a messaur!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, yesterday we had a meeting in the Committee of the Regions and we were lucky to have the Region of Crete, who informed us about the policy and development plan of the Region of Crete. The Minister of Economy also came and informed of his issues and cooperation. It would be nice if you were yesterday, because much of your Ministry's responsibilities are pillars of Crete's development and it would be very good. Instead, I saw an announcement in the press, which has both a positive character and a negative one. The negative's none of my business, and if you think I'm concerned, I'm coming back to you. It is none of my business to comment, which you say about anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u118	I didn't say anything about you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u119	However, it has a positive effect that, after a year's unblocking of bureaucracy, it is ready for the project, according to the law, to be entrusted to the second minority. That's the very positive one. I would therefore like to specifically - to see how we will not waste any more time, because the work was auctioned in the autumn of 2014 - to tell me about this project, which was unfortunately answered by the NSRF, but, according to the government's assurance, will be financed by the Public Investment Programme, for 2016 there is an entry in the Public Investment Programme and what is the amount you have written? The second question to which you must answer is when the contracts with the contractor will be signed, because, all right, you signed a decision saying that the procedure is going ahead, but what matters to the project is, of course, the signing of the contract with the contractor, who, as I have been informed, will have a 30-month time-frame in order to complete the project. The completion of this project, Mr President, concerns the completion of a key axis - no more work is needed, if this is done - for Heraklion and Crete, which is part of the trans-European networks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u120	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Kegeroglu, I wasn't called yesterday in the House Committee to attend. If I had been called, I'd be there. I have had a meeting with the principal, because we have a close cooperation, with the authorities of the first degree of local government and with the region, in order to dismantle the projects that we have received in the procedures that you know and have analysed very thoroughly on the occasion of many timely questions and not just on the occasion. I would like to inform you, by the way, that there is also a second project - which was involved in this and unblocked in the next few days - and we are obviously prioritising the projects linked to the country's productive reconstruction. Not doing projects for projects, but projects that help local communities, help how we get out of the crisis. This work is indeed necessary for Crete, for primary production, for the transport of products. We must therefore once again say that there was no misery on our part. There were too many complications. However, this highlights an issue that we will address on a next draft law that comes and has been consulted, in relation to the procedures in place and the way in which public works are carried out. I therefore consider this development to be very positive, Mr President, and I have nothing else to say. It's none of your business, my dear. Others were making announcements that I was coming to Crete to take a trip or that we are delaying the work and that it will never be done. If you see the Minutes of the topical question and the answers I gave you January, it was in this context that we are talking about today. In response to what you have asked, of course, there are appropriations, they have been approved by the Public Investment Programme and EUR 30 million has been added from the EUR 45 million that is the project.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u122	You said 30 million?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u123	Yes, sir. For this year, for 2016. So I think there's no problem at all. As regards when the contract will be signed, we will press the services as much as we can. I hope that the time periods formally given by the law will not be exceeded and signed as soon as possible by the relevant body handling the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry. The news was relatively good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u125	To avoid misunderstandings, I will say - and consult your partner - that the project is a budget of 47 million and that the discount is 30 million. Therefore, the Public Investment Programme must invest EUR 30 million. However, as the project is planned to be implemented in thirty months and 30 million cannot be used in 2016, I ask, in particular, how much money is provided for in the Public Investment Programme and whether the decision on this provision has been adopted in 2016. The second thing I want you to know about this project is when the contracts with the contractor will be signed. That's what matters. Then begins the work, running dates for when it has to be installed, and then the dates for thirty months are running. If it takes six months - for example, speaking theoretically - to sign the contract with the contractor, it means that we are going to thirty-six months from the thirty. So if these are answered, we will have a stable timetable, so that we can see the completion of this project. The second task, to which you have referred - I think it is the Panormos - Excellen - I believe that this will go ahead in the next few years. We'll watch it. No decision has been adopted for this project. However, this project also has an advantage: it was not answered by the NSRF, so it does not have the risk of the project in Heraklion - Messara. If you are ready, today you can answer the issue we discussed on all 7 January. You have never issued the Ministry of Development, neither you nor your predecessor for Law4313, which provided for the possibility of meeting the financial needs of the Crete Development Agency, which came from the additional responsibilities that the Agency assumed. Still, the agency is trying. With the integration of Apostlemi, the great work and the other works, it can gain financial self-reliance. And that is a very positive thing for the organisation itself. What you have made a mistake, I must tell you, is that while you have come down to Crete several times and discussed with the authorities about various projects, you have not cooperated with the administration of the OAS. And ten and five months there are many, so that the Minister does not cooperate with the administration of the supervisory body. There's too many of them. I understand that this administration is not pleasing or in any case not the one you would like to cooperate with, but it should not pay for marble Crete and development. Change it! Either cooperate or change it. As far as I know, behind the scenes and the scenes - it is not a matter of behind the scenes - consultations have taken too long. See what you will do so that the Agency can obtain the necessary cooperation and, of course, give the corresponding funding due so that it can proceed with the projects and all the projects necessary for the development of Crete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u126	Here, Minister, you have the floor. You are replying to the question tabled, and if you wish to do so also to the additional question put by Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u127	I should like to make a statement - we have tabled before, it has been sent to the House at the Parliamentary Control Office - the financial elements of the project. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're all set on C.D. 30 million, so you can be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u128	For 2016?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u129	Yeah, for 2016 it's all and I'll tell you why. This is provided for because in the signature of the contract the contractor is asked for a detailed schedule of the project, so he can actually absorb much more within 2016. When it is signed, we will know exactly the amount to be absorbed by the CCT, to release - because we have now committed all the sum - the money to be absorbed or not to be absorbed. The second thing I would like to say to you - and we do not have to present them to the House - are statements by Members of Parliament of Heraklion saying that I was on a trip to Heraklion, so it is not about you, so you are convinced of it. On this occasion, Mr President, I would like to say that, unfortunately, we have been called at a very difficult time for the country, for its finances, to deal with many obligations arising from old'sins' in public works. As far as the OECD is concerned, we have promoted it and today or tomorrow new administration enters. You have no reason, Mr. Kegeroglu, to cover the old administration. There are, in my opinion, very great responsibilities for the way the OAS was running. It is not possible for an organisation that is specifically intended to leave PPC alone with 3,5 million and 4 million euro accounts or to risk all the Prefecture of Chania to remain without water supplies in order to meet other needs. Three times the situation has been saved by the Ministry. I do not want to have this debate on the occasion of this debate. We can - if you want - have a detailed conversation about how the Ok has moved in recent years and whether he can reliably cover the burden assigned to him. But it's not the financial problem. That's the problem. We cannot have twenty different points on how the works are done, on whom they are done and what they are done. The Crete Development Agency must have a specific objective and purpose. There's the district, there's the municipalities, there's the Ministry. When people go to do other structures to exploit it locally - and I'm talking about Chania - problems of another kind arise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u130	We arrive at the last, but interesting, timely question, the twelfth under number 629/7-3-2016, the second timely question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Munich, Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the completion of the Greek School of Munich. Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, with my excellent colleague George Ursouzidis of the government party sitting next to me we have recently travelled to Munich, guests of the Greek community there and envoys of the Greek Parliament, he himself as the Greek child of Germany and spokesmen of the Greek Parliament. The image of two North Electoral MPs shows our intergroup, as well as our national interest in the school complex built in the capital of Bavaria. After all, with a spirit of national team, we visited them there Greeks and a spirit of national teams sitting in the Greek Parliament, in order to highlight the problem of Munich's school complex. Minister, the Greek community of Munich is an important pillar of Hellenism abroad. The Greeks of Munich advertise their homeland in their local communities and represent Greek education and culture. As part of the support of Greek schools - primary, high school and high school - in Munich, the Greek state pays EUR 1.2 million annually to cover the costs of rentals of purely Greek schools, where hundreds of Greek children are in attendance. In 1991, the then government of New Democracy launched procedures to build a state-owned school complex with modern and adequate infrastructure. The processes were fruitful in 2001, when the Greek State also bought on favourable terms by courtesy of the Municipality of Munich, which was granted to the Ministry of Education. This in turn entrusted the S.A. Building Infrastructures, the Athens School Buildings Organization, the well-known S.A., to meet the needs of the Greek school of Munich. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The plot was purchased by a reversed sale clause if the project was not completed in a reasonable time in accordance with the plan, precisely because of the objective and the favourable conditions. This clause was finally activated by the Municipality of Munich because of the non-implementation of the project, with the risk of losing the possibility of creating a Greek educational and cultural institution in the Philatelic Munich, that is, a permanent Greek cultural presence in the heart of Bavaria in particular and Germany in general. In this case, in addition to huge political costs, huge damage would also be caused to the Greek State about EUR 13 million, since we would lose the plot and the building costs so far. At the moment and after a series of actions by the Greek Community of Munich, in cooperation with the Greek Government, an effort that began on the previous government, the project is being built, but with a number of problems in funding. Let us note that the total cost of the project, Mr President, for the Greek side does not exceed EUR 7 million over a total of EUR 26 million, i.e. only 30% of the total cost. The rest is financed by the Bavaria Government. The Greek participation can be amortised within a short period of five years, due to the savings we have mentioned above. The Greeks of Munich watch with an agony the intermittent course of the project, which will guarantee the dynamic presence of Hellenism in the region. Following actions by your own government, some extensions have been made in connection with the activation of the clause. By September 2017, the school complex must have been fully completed, and the concrete work must be completed by 30 June of this year. On the basis of the above, you ask whether the Ministry intends to release the necessary funds or to consult the Bavarian Government in order to settle a new agreement for the completion of this project and to provide the maximum possible technical and financial support for that purpose. The Greeks of Munich are well aware of the difficulties that the country is currently experiencing. We were told by both Members that we were there. And we committed ourselves to sitting in the same chairs in order to highlight their fair request, but also their anxiety at the same time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u132	As you understood, Minister, I have allowed six minutes to pass, because I have to tell you that since 1990, I have been in this Chamber, I have never seen the image of two MPs, one government and one oppositionist, defend together an issue of this kind, and indeed that. It's something that honors Mr. Ursouzidis and my friend and colleague Mr. Essexakis. And don't think that you'll come out of Ethiopia if you don't answer the request quite clearly. I'll lock the door! Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u133	The answer to the questions put by Mr Prussias is very brief. The 2016 IPA was signed for the remainder of the remaining EUR 5 million for the completion of the 2016 project. I'll put it in the Minutes for you to have it. It's a pleasure, anyway. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With this opportunity I would also like to congratulate Mr Prussakis and Mr Ursouzidis, not only because they are sitting together, but because Mr Prussakis, unlike other colleagues, usually presents serious topical questions and does not hesitate to tell the truth about what really happens and where, as a country and as a political system, we must move on. And I'm explaining. In 1991, the idea and all this story began, as stated in the current question, with the Government of New Democracy, to build a private property by the Greek state of a school complex. The procedures were fruitful in 2001 and the project was commissioned in 2014, twenty-three years later, with everything that means to all of us. This is not how we come out of the crisis, nor can we have conditions of transparency...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u134	I'm sure that's not the troika's fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u135	Yeah, that's why it's not anyone's fault. It is our fault as a country and our procedures. There must also be an effort to streamline the whole system and transparency and the cost of public works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u136	Good. If there's a dentistry, you have the floor, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u137	There's a dentistry. For reasons of history, I would like to present together with my colleague in the Minutes of the House, and at the same time to you today, a picture of satellites, as far as the progress of the work is concerned. You said it was signed. But you didn't tell us if he was disbursed. Excuse me very much, because words matter too. The delay, in fact, is due to the failures of many governments, as you said before, and also historically. And indeed your previous government and your own so far have shown the necessary sensitivity. Welcome you to have the opportunity to connect your name with the completion of one of the most important Greek infrastructure projects outside Greece. Our agony with Mr. Ursouzidis is, having faith in what you said was signed, having quick disbursement, because it is the great request. So it is important that a clear planning for the rest of the project be heard from the most competent lips. We need it and, after all, the President has committed himself. Greeks are indeed an untapped capital and rightly claim respect and action from the mother country. That is why, Minister, we ask you, on behalf of the Greeks of Bavaria and all Greeks abroad, in symbolic terms to finish the school complex. And I'm tabling the relevant note. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios (Tsos) Politics, presents the above photography and the above-mentioned document, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] I am sure you are in every mood and will make every effort to achieve, not only now, temporarily, on concrete but also on completion of all projects. At this point, I would like to make it clear to you that I will be on the side of our relatives, but also of the government, in all similar cases concerning infrastructure of Greek interest abroad, but also on the side of our relatives, for infrastructure projects within the country. Most of the people living in the Munich and Germany are north-east. A very large number of them come from Evros and Thrace, and indeed from my village. They have complaints about the vertical axis of Ardanion - Alexandroupolis to Ormene. They even monitor this work with calls to their relatives. We are affected by and disturbed by the decommissioning from the central state. I would ask you warmly to bend on this work, because I have committed myself to those who know that we are talking here today about it again. Thank you, Mr President, and you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u138	Minister, you have the floor. I saw the way you went to get up, so good news you'll say. And I'll take advantage of you. Believeing in the efficiency of the engineer, former President of the TEI and the politician today, I tell you that the question of free movement of mandates in Attica has not been resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u139	Yeah, I'll say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u140	Please come after it too much because the other ministry throws it at you, you need to know. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u141	Mr Prussakis, in order to disburse the money, there should be an entry in the EDP. From now on, it is a procedural issue between the contractor and the Creative Infrastructures S.A. There were unpaid accounts of EUR 1,038.544. I'm telling you specific numbers. From there on, there have also been demands for compensation for the contractor, where there the service must see what is legal, what not in relation to what the contractor demands and what the necessary disbursements need to be made. The point is that the money is there to complete the work and I will give you the answer from the Parliamentary Control Office, too, which certifies it and there is a commitment from the Office. Obviously, this is one of the many projects that have had problems, as are the second one you say. The second one, however, is part of another category of projects. They are in the works that had built a Gordian bond around them to solve and move on. It is the same case as the Metro of Thessaloniki, with the works of Paraionia. I'm talking about the vertical axis. I think one, one, and they go their way. As he took his way and the metro of Thessaloniki and the works of Paraionia, this will be completed. Indeed, these projects have not been able to afflict citizens for decades and cost far more than those anticipated by these delays. Mr President, there is a very close cooperation. He's not throwing the other ministry into us. I think we're gonna throw them out together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u142	I get it. I'm the one throwing the ball at you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u143	There is an agreement between the two Ministries and an agreement with the Athens Urban Transport Organisation to proceed with the Convention. Why? Because also institutions of Athens' urban transport have requested specific work from the Greek Police for the storage of subway stations, for the protection from adverse effects on trams or bus drivers, for the citizens and for the workers and these services...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u144	Compensatory benefits, let's say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u145	No, they will in particular be costly and designed how many policemen will enter the service of urban transport and what urban transport will offer in order to solve the problem. There is a specific procedure with the General Accounting Office of the State. This must be resolved to complete the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u146	But because you're a practical man, don't get there in September and say we solved it and nine months have left. Thank you very much, Minister, and for your presence...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u148	And you, ladies and gentlemen. You gave a nice picture to an empty House. To conclude the debate on topical and urgent questions, ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall resolve the sitting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-18-S1-commons.u149	With the consent of the House at 12.50 p.m. the sitting on Monday, March 21, 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) a debate on topical questions; b) a debate on topical and urgent questions, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
