ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Parliament's decisions: debate and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, the proposal: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House - Part II (Government Gazette 51A-104-1997) and Part Parliamentary (Government Gazette 106A' 2.4-1987), as applicable'. I propose that today's sitting should be given the floor by the rapporteurs and the special speakers for ten to 15 minutes and that the parliamentary representatives, if they wish, be given the floor for ten to twelve minutes. The majority rapporteur, Mr Antony Syrigos, has the floor. I'll give you ten minutes and if you need more time, you tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, will the rest of us speak properly?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u3	Who are the others?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u4	The Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u5	Of course. I did. The rapporteurs and the Parliamentary Representatives. I did say time for ten to twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u6	It will not open up a list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u7	We will not open a list, because we have to finish in a reasonable time, and this afternoon we have a meeting. I think that's going to be covered. Now if there's anything, we see it at that time. Mr. Syragos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have today been called upon to discuss a very serious and important matter, because the Rules of Procedure of the House are, as we have said in committees, oxygen. In other words, it is the one who regulates its operation and all the consequences it may have on the exercise of the legislative function. We have an important proposal to discuss, in particular, Part II of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In the committees on the Rules of Procedure of the House there has been an extensive debate, as we know. Proposals were tabled by all interested parties and the objections were raised in detail. There was also a fruitful dialogue. I hope and hope that the same will be done in the House in response to arguments and, as far as possible, as broad and consensual a conclusion as possible. This does not mean, of course, that there will be no disputes, which will, of course, be lifted - if they exist - in the legitimate way, namely votes. As described in the explanatory statement to the proposal under discussion, it seeks to codify and rationalise the existing regime in important areas of parliamentary work. The proposal, together with the provisions, shall contain fifty-seven articles. Articles 55 to 57 concern the Parliamentary Party. There is also an Article concerning the period of validity of the proposal, if it is accepted. The overall examination of the proposal which has been tabled and debated shows that it is attempting to mitigate the presidential system that characterised the structure of Part II of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Let us look at some of the key points in the amendment and the ambitions that we consider to have this proposal. The second part of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, as you know, regulates the organization of its services, the powers of each Office, the issues of Parliament's human resources management - that is, the workers - and also the economic affairs of the House, the adoption of budgets, commissions and so on. Both Part II and the special organization and function regulations now include provisions that are more or less fragmented, often without any consistency or interconnection between them, which result in various malfunctions. What are the ambitions of the proposal, as we appreciate? The Rules - Part II - need a radical review, with changes in the way the Services organise and operate, in the management of human resources, in the financial management of the House. The House needs a regulation which is a product of thorough study, with scientific criteria, describing and safeguarding a modern system of administration, similar to those which have parliaments of other countries and the European Parliament. All these changes will come and will be launched with the participation of workers and all Parliament's working factors, possibly also with the involvement of an independent body specialising in organisation and public administration. I believe that the aim of this Parliament's current administration, namely the President and the rest, is to draw up a long-term plan aimed at the main activities of the Parliament, by involving workers in the planning of work and by encouraging collective action, the use of instruments and technologies - this is important for more effective action - and the savings of resources so that the House can be linked to society and its role demonstrated, that is, to emphasise its prestige and to demonstrate that it is a key pillar of democracy. The proposed amendment, which preceded consultation, seeks first rationalisation. Specific points on which to refer: Special regulations governing nine Parliament's departments, which have been adopted as President's decisions, are incorporated in their general provisions and are annexed to the Rules of Procedure as annexes to Part II of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. to a decision of the House. Their incoherent and often contradictory arrangements are streamlined and the heads are now chosen, in their overwhelming majority, transparent and worthwhile procedures under the Rules of Procedure. The staff who serves these Services today are being upgraded to work as a whole automatically occupying existing organic positions guaranteed by a plenary decision of the House. From now on, the special rules on the organization and operation of Parliament's services will be passed by Parliament during the procedure of the codes. The decision of the President of Parliament will only supplement these regulations in particular with regard to matters of a technical or detailed nature. The incorporation of the specific regulations in Part II of the Rules of Procedure entails changes in the establishment plan of the Services. They are part of this existing organic units today, except for basic organisational structures, without an obvious reason, and a new Directorate-General is being established only to prevent the hydrocephalosis of a directorate-general with eight directorates-general. Changes in the establishment plan and the restructuring of the Services are the very least necessary to incorporate the specific regulations. I'll highlight some other things a little sooner, but they're important. Arrangements for the graduation and wage classification of employees, the evaluation of staff and the selection of Heads of Organic Units, in view of Parliament's merits and the best use of Parliament's human resources, shall be introduced, by adapting the regulations of Laws Nos.4354/2015 and 4369/2016, taking into account the specificity of Parliament. There are some variations here, which, if necessary, will be more detailed. I would also like to point out that with the new Regulation, with the proposed amendment, eighty-six heads are chosen by transparent and merital procedures of the new system of selection of heads, twelve by the President of Parliament and one by the President on a proposal from the employees of the relevant organic unit. Especially for the latter, it is noted that they are placed by the President of the Parliament, after hearing the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. An overall increase in the role of workers is being attempted by the introduction of an objective internal movement system, in line with their education and training needs, fair and objective evaluation of both workers and their heads. And here, if need be, we'll report in detail. It is possible to create a post for a special thematic secretary of the Parliament with a three-year term of office, which will have specific responsibilities - it is some - which comes first from the staff of the Parliament. It is created in the House of Strategic Planning and Reorganisation of Administrative Operations, which is part of the Secretary-General of the Parliament. Similar services, with different organisational structures, also operate in foreign parliaments and in the European Parliament. A Department of Legal Support for Parliament's Services, which is administratively subordinate to the Secretary-General, is hereby established. The Department has an advisory role and supports the Services of the Parliament, except for the Scientific and Legal Affairs Committee. The role is distinct from that of the Scientific Service, which is also defined in Part One of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I note this in order to avoid confusion or misunderstandings. Its subject-matter shall be determined by the provisions of Article 24. The Budget Office of the State shall also be strengthened and its responsibilities enriched, in particular by adding new powers to report on the preliminary draft and draft budget of the State, which it shall submit to the Office of the President, and where appropriate. The Television Station is an organizational unit of the Parliament, which is directly subordinate to the President. It has so far been an independent agency whose status was governed solely by decisions of the President of the Parliament. Hereinafter its basic principles of operation, its mission and the main issues of its structure are governed by Part II of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, that is by decisions of the House. The Coordinator or the Management Board shall inform the Parliament's Committee for the Rules of Procedure every six months, which may table proposals for the station's activity and work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some more time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u9	Of course, Mr. Syrigos. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much. It is also an important innovation that concerns - and is first set out in Part II of the Rules of Procedure - the moves of staff in terms of transparency and the needs of the Services and the qualifications of employees. For cleaning - which is a specific sector - the possibility of concluding fixed-term, part-time or full-time or rental contracts is introduced, with natural persons belonging to vulnerable social groups registered in the OAED unemployed’s registers, as well as women supported or supported by bodies and services for victims of violence. To eliminate stereotypes in the text of the Rules of Procedure, it is proposed to incorporate gender equality into a subsequent codification of the provisions. I'm staying in these. I would just like to inform the House about something that the Members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure know about, that, after dialogue, various recastings of additions or modifications have been made and almost all of them have been accepted - some of them - so that we can get to plenary - with small variations, I hope - which we will now discuss final convergences or not. The issues I have put before you come to regulate the proposal under discussion. We believe that the necessary improvements in Parliament's Rules of Procedure are being attempted by it and that it is moving in a positive direction. We also expect the Members' positions to develop this debate and reach the point of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr Antonis Syrigos, SYRIZA rapporteur. The rapporteur, Mr Ioannis Tragakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by thanking the staff of the House, all the staff of the House, the Scientific Agency, the Foundation of the Parliament, the guard that has been with us all the time. Because people think that the House only works as it sees on TV, without knowing that officials come daily and leave three hours after the meeting is over. They're our partners. He had said the president before, that I see the employees of the House more than my family. A big thank you to everyone. I would like to answer the question of whether we have an exact House, because they say we have an exact House. I would like to inform you, therefore, that the Parliament's budget is 0.7% of the state budget when in the other parliaments it is 2 to 2.5%, i.e. it is three times the cost. So this House is not accurate, and I will prove it with evidence. Did the House reduce? Did the House endure the crisis? Of course the House has suffered the crisis. I'll report you some numbers. For example, the Parliament's 2009 budget was 222,000, 2010 was 218,000, 2011 was 197,000, 2012 was 170,000. I'm not putting on change. The 2013 budget was 148,000. The 2015 budget was 139,000. The 2016 budget was 136,000. So the House has suffered a reduction in the budget since 2009, from the crisis to the order of 37% so far. Why was that a reduction? It was first made at the expense of workers' salaries, it was done at the expense of the Members' salaries and we kept the Parliament's expenses to a minimum reduced. So the House is not accurate. I would also like to make a reference to Parliament's services how they are shaped by the new Rules of Procedure. The new Regulation brings about a radical change in the number of organic units with the new organogram. It was, of course, a change that we had agreed in November 2015 that it would be. And it happened. We have some new things, for example the institution of the Administrative Secretary, to whom I shall refer below. We have a new Directorate-General created. We have thirty one organic units at address level, eighty-eight at department level and six at office level. Of course, the important thing is that the vast majority of the heads are chosen by the Service Council. I shall come to the Services Council and speak of this as well as of the modulation in the relevant article. I would therefore like to make a special reference to Parliament's special regulations. Indeed, in November 2015, we were all unanimously committed here to the fact that it will be laid down that Parliament's special rules, which are adopted by a delegation from paragraph 1 and 2 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, are covered by this Rules of Procedure. Indeed, they are part of it and this is a radical change. It is a change because it gives us the right to any change we want to make, not to be made by a special regulation, but to pass through the House. And this is an important intersection. And it's a welcome important cut, of course. But I would like to address a few specific themes to catch something that touches me and then go into the bill. I'd like to talk about Benacio Library. It is a favourite issue for me, because the Benacio Library was made with many sacrifices in the tobacco shop, and I urge all Members - I have told the President that we should attend meetings - to visit to see what Benacio Library is, what we have achieved in Benacio Library. Because, believe me, the Benakey Library is a jewelry. The House has archives and old archives, which all those involved in this matter examine scientifically. If you had come, for example, on the anniversary of 25 March in the Chamber, you would have seen that this year's subject matter was from Parliament's Gallery, works that the House owns. And you will see that the House has a real treasure from paintings of great value. I shall also refer to the matter of the Old Parliament, my dear point of order. Because I visited the President a month and a half ago - if I am not cheating - the Old Parliament, I would inform you that the Old Parliament does not belong to the House. Not only does it belong to the Parliament, it belongs to the Ministry of Culture, but it has been awarded a contract to the National Museum. We went there and made some proposals to them. And we expect to see at the next meeting we will do what is going to happen with these proposals. Our proposal is at least that the House of Parliament should be used by the Greek Parliament. And not only should it be used by the Greek Parliament, but, with the approval of the Greek Parliament, any events take place there. It's a very important matter. Very important theme, too, is the old Benacio Library, which needs enough money, a big budget to be rebuilt. And we'll do that, and I hope, I hope. I have thus referred to these three issues, because very few people know them. That's why I used these. I now come to the main themes provided for in this regulation. I'll tell you what areas it does, which it makes divisions, in which areas we disagree and in which areas we agree, so that we can be honest. First of all, I would like to say that the Rules of Procedure are a consensual procedure. Because I have been present in too many debates on changing the Rules of Procedure, there are not easy changes to the Rules of Procedure. Don't think it's normal. Because I have been here in too many debates, the debate on the Rules of Procedure of the House is a consensual procedure. It is a process which does not only concern this House, it also concerns future Vultures, because what is provided for in the Rules of Procedure will be implemented over a long period of time, given that the previous brave change in the Rules of Procedure has taken place in 1997. So I'll say for the Special Theme Secretary. For the Special Thematic Secretary there has been a great debate. Finally, the only thing that the Parliamentary Service has accepted was that the Special Thematic Secretary should come first, after insisting on all our parties, from the officials of Parliament, because the House has worthy officials who could take the place of the Special Thematic Secretary. Because the Special Thematic Secretary on the basis of the Procedural Schedule that he was assigned to him, and on the basis of the Schedule that we set up, is a Professor who gives a follow-up. I will tell you why the Special Thematic Secretary has accepted it, despite the fact that Mr.4369/2016 provides for it, because we should not always agree with Mr.4369/2016. The House has peculiarities. It's not a ministry. The House has great peculiarities. The House, apart from the Administrative Office, produces legislative work, is the third pillar of democracy. So you realise that there is no need to go according to L.4369/2016. So I come to the Special Thematic Secretary, where I objected to it as far as it had to come from Parliament. Of course, the 'priority' has come in. Priority, of course, gives any President to choose who he wants. But it should be brought to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Isn't there any of Parliament's officials worthy and capable of taking this position? So we need a prototype. What I am asking for, for example, because we are in the digital age, is that there must be a follow-up with regard to Parliament's digital operation and this is an inducement of mine. Parliament must certainly move not one step, but move on to the digital age. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will use enough time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u13	Of course. You're at nine minutes, but how much do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u14	There is the question that we will not give a second answer, just in the articles we have our reservations. So for the Special Theme Secretary, I have the feeling that it should come exclusively from the service of the House to have the follow-up we want. Because both the Secretary-General and the Special Secretary are posted officials. Article 7. An address may have been removed, but the division of the departments has been carried out according to the indication of the service, which has been included in the service itself, as was the indication of the service on the subject provided for in Article 7 for the Directorate-General for International and Public Relations. I now come to Article 19. It is the so-called ‘strategic planning and reorganisation unit’. Otherwise it came after we consulted, after exhausting discussions. Because I do not hide from you that there have been exhaustive discussions on both committees. But outside the committees we have all had a very good debate. There have been several changes in terms of the record, the name. In other words, what was said in a kind of follow-up because the word that followed this committee was the word'monitoring'. I don't know what they're going to do. Of course, under the terms which we have set, the responsibility which this unit will have for strategic planning, it is precisely the responsibilities that are described. And the responsibilities are described because they should be described automatically, because they are a unit, which could create many misunderstandings. I, because I am well-meaning, do not accept these remarks or other objections. But because there will be a bad option - and it makes sense - we have to weaken them. Because it has been said that it is an internal audit service, it has been said that it exists in the other parliaments, but we need to limit its activities, just as it is described in Article 19. I now come to Article 24, to the Legal Support Division. Here I would like to defend and support the Scientific Council and the Scientific Service of the Parliament. And why am I doing this? Because in my long stay here - don't forget that I've been here since '74 - whenever we needed the opinion of the Scientific Service of the Parliament, we had it. Whenever we needed legal aid, the Scientific Service of the Parliament has always been present. There's never been a gap. Someone's gonna tell me, maybe one time she needs something very urgent, and then what would we do? Have we created a legal support section? Create. Because, indeed, the officials of this House were also saying that they should be given legal support, because they are often dragged to the courts. Don't think, the officials keep going to the courts because they're being sued - and the Secretary General and everyone's going. They should have legal support. I accept that. Of course they have a legal support. The Legal Service may not be able to do this. If he can't make it, he can't make it. For example, does the House have a reserve? He doesn't. Shouldn't we draw up a reserve in this House at last? I'll bring you two data. I'm doing a parentheses here because the Constitutional Review is coming. And even the Constitutional Review - for you to know - is a perfect consensus process. That is to say the caging of the Constitutional Review with electoral law is a serious political error. Heavy political error! Because the Constitutional Review is something quite special. The Constitutional Review requires consensus. I have made the president of two Constitutional Review Committees. He wants a consensus. He wants a conversation with the parties. So since I referred to the enclosure, Mr President, I had proposed - and I repeat it - during the debates on the Constitutional Review. As you know, there is the Ionian Parliament, there is the House in Nafplion. One or two times the committees meet in these two buildings. Is she in good condition? Oh, no. Is it registered in the House's enclosure? Oh, no. They belong to the Ministry of Culture. Therefore, if legal support is needed to enable them to control securities or anything, of course, there should be such a section. What will this department be running from? If the department is managed by the Scientific Service of the Parliament, it is reasonable to belong to the Scientific Service of the Parliament. In other words, if the Head of this Department is chosen to be from the Scientific Service of the Parliament, it is reasonable to belong to the Scientific Service of the Parliament. If not, because we are also given the right to take external heads, as has been proposed by a party - then, of course, it is an independent department. Our proposal here, therefore, is that if the head of the Legal Support Department comes from the Scientific Service of the Parliament, it should belong to the Scientific Service of the Parliament. I'm going to go to Article 30, to the transitional provisions on moleculosis. There is no need for us to follow what is provided for in No.4369/2016. I have said that the House is a special regime. The House has many responsibilities. Intelligently, the President said that he has been through so many ministries and that the parliament is something quite special, its work is diverse. As far as molecule is concerned, therefore, there should also be a difference in the transitional provisions. I'll take something. For example, I will accept that for the post of Heads of Division, because according to L.4316 people will be able to take up these positions and therefore be able to take the position and cannot be taken by an official who is, for example, in the garage or in cleanliness, who should also have a knowledge and a special service, there should be an increased moleculation. In the other two cases, however, I do not accept the moleculosis that is envisaged unless there is a change in this. There has been an entire debate in our committee. In committee we have decided and said, on a proposal from our President, because I asked for 25% - 30%, others were asking 20% - which was generous I can say - to get 30%. And we agreed to be 30%. In today's proposal, however, I see here for the interview there is no 30%. The original text remains. I, too, have a radical disagreement. I really have a radical disagreement, and I do not want to see a committee of the Rules of Procedure there being a radical disagreement. Rule 33(5) of the opinion on the selection of directors of the organic units is in the right direction because it provides for it to be passed by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. And this is a very important issue for selecting heads. As far as the interview is concerned, we said - and the President accepted it - that there should be a report, so that if anyone wishes to object to the moleculation that he has received from the interview, he can submit it. But we had again agreed that he should be present in the evaluation committee - of course the Secretary-General, the Legal Council of the State - and the responsible Director-General as well. We had agreed on that, and now it is not there. I have my disagreement here. I have also heard the argument about the creation of a client state. But what kind of client state will the House have? Doesn't it make sense for the responsible director to take part in the interview? The questionnaire may, of course, be designated by the person responsible himself. This is a serious argument, which we must take into account. He will therefore be responsible for determining the questionnaire. For example - I will bring you an example - a head of the legislative service is judged. And thank you very much for all your efforts, because we know what is going on. I'll take some more time, because I won't take the floor again. If, then, a person who comes from the fixed assets to be judged for his financial service and who is examined by the responsible director or asks him whether or not an amendment will be accepted, if he is submitted late, for example on Friday, he has an answer? Of course not. How would he know? If, on the contrary, someone goes from the legislative service and asks him about the fixed assets, as to whether the payment is made through the General Accounting Office of the State, does this man have an answer? Of course not. That is why we put 'on the basis of the matter'. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you something about the State General Accounting Office. I insist on that. We had repeatedly rejected the attempts to infiltrate the General Accounting Office of the State in the House. Of course, now they have someone who's just watching. And simple monitoring - as it has been described - does not bother us. Let's stay the way it is. I'll be briefed 'cause I took you too much time. As far as the channel of the Parliament is concerned, I shall fully agree with the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece and Mr Pafile for the control of the programme. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities should be consulted. Also, the coordinator and the programme leader - because here we anticipate a three-year-old coordinator who can be renewed another three years - going through the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for their appointment. I took a lot of time. I shall end with the provisions of the first part of the Rules of Procedure. We agree with the position of the Vice-President. We agree with the question of the letter of vote. The phenomenon of judging at the Conference of Presidents was presented and a vote was taken by way of a letter of letter, which suffered. I have repeatedly stressed that these votes are suffering. We're regulating this now. As far as the issue of urgent bills is concerned, we cannot disagree here because it is a practice that we have in the end been implementing. We have been implementing this practice, and we are now environing it with the provisions of changing the first part of the Rules of Procedure. The first part of the Rules of Procedure will be here - proposals have already been discussed - now to discuss. By the time he comes, however, I have two important remarks. My first important comment is the legislative improvements. We must finally stop the phenomenon of whole bills coming at the last minute with legislative improvements. It's unacceptable! It is in spite of the Rules of Procedure and it is wrong to accept these legislative improvements in unrelated bills. Contract ratification bills come whole separate bills. This has to stop. It is not so much the responsibility of the President and the services. But it is the government's responsibility. And I'm going to close up with the issue of the topical and urgent questions. It is unacceptable that twelve times a timely question has been asked and that the Minister has not answered it. You want the two, three, four, five times he was right, missing, had a job? Yeah. But the rest? What do I suggest? Until the change takes place and it will be implemented - I, when I was presiding, and I urge the President and Vice-Presidents to do so - to allow the honourable Member to develop his question for two minutes from the Minister. And see if at the next meeting the Minister will come or not. That's what we have to do. Because, if we do not, this phenomenon will fade away. I can hear that the House will not close, we will not go to departments, the Session will continue. Parliamentary control will therefore continue as it is in plenary, as it is in the ordinary session. That is why I am urging this issue and I will defend it. I'm really talking to you. I saw that when it was applied in practice, it yielded results. I've eaten you too much time. Thank you. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u15	Alone to speak to the MP without a government?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u16	No government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Tragakis. The floor is given by the Special Speaker of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr. Ioannis Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. So we are here today to discuss a regulation which has a number of changes to the way the Greek Parliament operates. We consider, as Golden Dawn and I personally, that this is completely pretext because the way the Greek Parliament works anyway is cut and sewn in a context that you want. We just want to help a little bit, so that those who are in power can make some people comfortable, make things a little better. When we talk about Rules of Procedure of the House and about respect for which there must be, first of all, that the government, the President of the Parliament, the Vice-Presidents, the governors, the ministers must show and express respect. Otherwise there can be no respect and a code of conduct, as we have been discussing before. And here I shall refer to the issue that concerns us, as Golden Dawn, namely that we have tabled a number of written questions, which do not answer most on the pretext that someone simply doesn't want to answer us because we belong to Golden Dawn or some others constantly answer that the questions we ask are not in their power, they are in another ministry, then the question goes to another ministry, they are lost on the road and these questions are never answered. And don't stand up to the topical questions, because as Golden Dawn we have testified over a hundred and fifty times and the ones that have answered us are about thirteen to fourteen. If that is what you consider to be a parliamentary work, if that is a code, if that is ethical in the Greek Parliament, then we too should respect that. But we cannot talk about this by seeing the government behave in this way. There must be serious parliamentary control, and we cannot, as far as - I repeat - the Golden Dawn, have constant threats to its MPs, close microphones, want to get us out of the Chamber, call the guardian, call NATO, and I don't know who else. These must stop. We are in here, we are not offended, we have not done things that have not been done on several occasions, either in this parliamentary term or in previous times, so your manner of behaviour simply brings us recklessly and confusely. We demand that we have the same rights as everyone else and that we do our parliamentary control as we ask. Unfortunately, there are few exceptions. Because there are some exceptions, there are some people who respect the institution that operates and respect certain decisions, some moves being made. However, the general behaviour, I repeat, is unacceptable. We are slowly seeing that, in the way that exists and the recruitment that is being made, a new party army is being set up in this House. We see a number of dozens of new recruitments, as they had previously taken place, a short time ago. Here we see about sixty people (gatherers, countrymen, drivers, twelve secretaries for the garage, nine permanent cleaners, twenty-six places for trainers, nutritionists, physiotherapists). Is that really the fitness center of this House that much of a move? All MPs go down and work out and need twenty-six nutritionists and physiotherapists? But these are completely pretexts and they're fake and we all know them. What is going on is to make other people comfortable, is to raise our army, and it is to create a large party army that we need to have. That is what is happening throughout the public sector. I wonder with the government, which says it is sensitive to something like this, how it is possible in the public sector to apply recruitment, to have dozens, hundreds of new recruitments in the private sector, too, not to be a nail for us that people are constantly being made redundant and who are unemployed? Why is the government not trying and doing nothing? Because of course with private employees she has no special contact anymore, she's lost the game, so she's looking to create her own army. We must take care of these. I have already heard the government's rapporteur, SYRIZA's rapporteur, saying that this House is also a part of the people and that it is nothing special. I will disagree and say that the House is something special, it is a part that works otherwise, it is a part that operates in a way and with rights that they well exist - we will not disagree - but there should also be for the other Greek citizens. So, for anyone who's not in here and who doesn't belong to this caste of the lucky ones in the Greek Parliament, what should be done? And here I will stand and mention as an example the kindergartens and kindergartens which operate in the Greek Parliament and the way they operate. I mean, well done, so it must be for kids, for parents, for everyone. But since you know that the right thing is to do and that this is how kindergartens and nursery stations in the House should work, why outside the House, why in society they do not work that way? Why in Greek society do these measures lead children to starving, not having parents leave them at stations and being forced to lose jobs or anything else, so that they can sit together with their children? So why don't you show any interest there? Why, while you are a government, do not legislate and institutionalize you at these levels, but are you only interested in Parliament's? I repeat, for a caste of people who are lucky to be here. So you yourself make the people separate, make the people feel that it belongs to different social classes. And that's the worst thing, and you're gonna have to change it. We have heard some reductions in the Greek Parliament. But it makes sense that reductions have also been made in the Greek Parliament, we are not discussing this, but rather make a comparison of the money received by some workers here and the Members of Parliament, as we have repeatedly pointed out, which the Greek Members should not have taken on these parliamentary allowances. This money should be cut to at least half and that money should be looked at to give the Greek people. Also, the position of the Golden Dawn is - and we stress it - that the grant of the parties must stop with the knife. It is not possible at times when Greece is falling, at times when the average Greek worker spends tragic times, the parties share EUR 50, 60 or 70 million. It is not possible for those who brought the Greek people to this point to share again with the state money and put them in their pockets as they want. For these reasons, the Golden Dawn points out that it is not going to vote for this regulation, because we know very well that it is a pretext. With regard to certain specific articles, which are in the right direction, such as Rule 26 on the abolition of posted officials to former Presidents of the Parliament, to former Prime Ministers, we will, of course, be in favour of these articles. Of course, these things are in the right direction. However, those who remove with this article, Article 26, take them back to the multiple with the intakes you make to gardeners and natural therapists in the House that no one goes to work out. So that's the lie that's here, and that's what we need to see and stress. Finally, the Greek Parliament must function, not as a separate part of the Greek people, not as a special thing that deserves privileges, but must act humility and with respect to the Greeks who are being persecuted at the moment. If you did 1/10 of the measures you are bringing to the Greek Parliament and to the Greek Parliament - which you are doing well, I repeat, and you are bringing them up, because we do not have anything with the workers here, and they have to be paid and live properly - it would be differently and all this must be implemented outside this building, where the ordinary people, the people, are suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u19	We move on to the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure for drawing up a Rules of Procedure - and we agree on this - needs to be a consensual procedure. The question is who ensures consensus. Usually, the consensus ensures that the person who proposes the changes and tries to integrate these changes into the proposed Rules of Procedure, particularly when there is an agreement on both pathogens and when there is agreement on how Parliament should function and the working and operational framework of the officials of the Parliament, the staff of the Parliament, should be guaranteed. The second element, which has to do with consensus, is that it is necessary. And it is precisely because this consensus and the functioning of Parliament is relevant to the functioning of democracy. Therefore, there we have too many points in theory and these should be reflected. They should be reflected in a regulation, which, as it was processed by the relevant Committee on the Rules of Procedure, has had many improvements. However, I must tell you that we did not see it for that reason and voted against at first instance. We have also voted against the Rules of Procedure in many articles, because we believe that the problems of this proposal by the government, or the President of Parliament, are more than positive. I am starting with one element, which, in our view, is indicative of the way the whole proposal has been structured. I'm looking at the organogram. In fact, in the establishment plan, there are new agencies, there is a different organisation of Parliament's services, and I was impressed by earlier establishment plans, and I was also surprised, ladies and gentlemen, by many European Parliaments' organograms. We therefore have the President of Parliament, the Conference, quite rightly, and usually beside it, there has always been the Scientific Body, which is above all, if you like, doubt as to its impartiality and which operates as a supporter and as an adjunct to the functioning of the House. That's not what we saw here. On the contrary, we have seen the deterioration of both the Scientific Council and Parliament's Scientific Service, which, if you like, shows the direction in which we think. And I wondered why I remember both the current government - and yesterday's opposition - that in every bill, which was being discussed in this House, it was beginning with the remarks, the right comments, both about the constitutionality of the laws and the way in which the bills were formed, which were, if you like, specifically arrows against the government that something was wrong, somewhere did not do its work well. On the contrary, when yesterday's Qualified Opposition becomes a government, we note that it seeks to weaken these services. And I think he's looking for it in a variety of ways. I begin with Article 2 and the introduction of the Special Theme Secretary. We have convinced you since the first statement that specific responsibilities had to be given to the Special Secretary, because as this provision was written, he left everything open. Indeed, you have accepted that the Special Theme Secretary may also come from the College of Officials of the Parliament at a higher level and have also accepted that he will also have specific responsibilities to be defined by the President of the Parliament. In our view, it should come exclusively, and not by priority, from the College of Officials of the Parliament. And it should come exclusively from the one side, so that there is an institutional memory, if you wish, given that it is given a three-year term, and on the other hand, because in any case a Special Theme Secretary whose position is judged necessary, in your proposal, should also be aware of the procedures of the House - because this is where the possibility is left, too, not to come from Parliament - to be useful in the functioning of the House. In any case, we consider this to be a choice of the Bureau of Parliament, which we can discuss. We can discuss, despite the fact that we want the exclusive in the definition and definition of this Special Theme Secretary by the officials of the House. However, what we cannot discuss is the reversal of administrative reality and pyramid, that is, as we have said, when the Secretary-General is absent or prevented, then it is replaced by the Special Thematic Secretary and not by the Special Secretary. It's not a technical matter. It's a deep political one. It is also deeply administrative. Consider what is the special relationship of the Special Thematic Secretary in the functioning of the Parliament's pyramid when he replaces the Secretary-General and not the Special Secretary. Somebody's out of line! One of them is out of business. Someone's position, if you want, is not so necessary. What we are saying is to make it clear that, of course, the Special Thematic Secretary, if deemed necessary, is able to replace the Special Secretary whose position was known, defined and given specific competences. And you know, it's not just a matter of legal detail. It is a matter of politics that wants to exercise any Bureau of Parliament. Of course, this has no personal reproach, if you like, it has no personal identification. That is why, and because we have asked that this provision be changed and we see the Bureau's insistence not to change, we understand that there is a target. We just don't want to share this targeting in any way. That is why we will not support this article. I'm going to the strategic planning unit. Yeah. And there we convinced you it couldn't be the unit that had a description of the first plan. We are also telling you now that if you want to vote on this article, all the other powers will have to be removed after paragraph 2(b), that is, strategic planning on the one hand and cooperation with Parliament's services on the other. Another unit of strategic planning cannot do and must not do in the House. We are also telling you this: in order not to be generally exposed, delete these in terms of economics, delete the responsibilities which have to do with the certification of services. A design unit will certify the service? Don't you understand that this is absurd? And not only absurd, it is also a source of confusion of competence. Unless we want to create it, so that we do not know who is doing and why we have a superunit, which will have a say about everything and the ambiguity of its responsibilities, it will be able to intervene in all the other services of this House. It's wrong, and we'll find it in front of us. We'll all find it in front of us. You know what? Sometimes we open a small door to arrhythmias. And this little door eventually becomes a long hallway, because everyone - and I do not question the intentions at all, I am simply pointing out the dangers - can open this little door, make it a big avenue and from there on no stop. I'm not saying there's bad intentions. I say that in a certain context of consensus reorganization of a Rules of Procedure this should not exist. I am also saying that a strategic planning unit cannot simply control all the other services, from their finances to the safeguarding of dataprocessing and Parliament's system. It's wrong. Delete them and we can talk about it again. We're moving on. Coordinator on the channel of Parliament, Rule 22, you consider that there must be. There must be the coordinator, along with all the other posts that have been planned, as well as all those who are recruited. I'm fine. However, if there is to be a coordinator, we are making you - if you want - an interim proposal. Why should this coordinator have a three-year term? Because what we are observing is that all the new posts that are being proposed are proposed with a term of office. And I'm not saying that with some suspicion. But why are these terms proposed in a position that is not considered neural? I agree with the proposals that have been made by both the Communist Party of Greece and the New Democracy, that there needs to be a control over the programme of the Parliament and a consensual procedure for what this Parliament's channel shows. Because sometimes, believe me, we are not very proud of what we see or - if you like - of the origin of what we see. So for the coordinator with a term of office I think that we do not need it, in our view. It must be changed so that we can vote on it. As it is, we do not vote for it. I now come to the Legal Support Department of the Parliamentary Services. And there, on our own proposal, you agreed to identify its specific responsibilities, beyond the fact that for the specific mission that this section has provided for a number of new posts. Should we discuss something, which is too simple? I'm not in favour of the cheap House. I'm in favour of the operating parliament. Wherever external partners are needed, they should be hired. In fact, they should be recruited not by a term of office, but by a certain amount of time. I'm in favor. I see here that for the current legal outstandings of the House, such as the legal settlement of matters, the assignment - of Parliament's work on its assets - we should hire lawyers or lawyers, without a term of office on this matter all of a sudden. I mean, we should build a new agency from lawmakers in this House. Very good. Why? We don't have them elsewhere? We don't have them in the Scientific Service? I would say this: if you suggest - and rightly so - that this service, as the head of someone from the Scientific Council or from the Scientific Service, I would say yes, but then we should make it clear that, since the Scientific Council enjoys personal and operational independence, this service should also be part of the Scientific Council. Mr. Tragakis said so before. Otherwise, do you know what we're doing? We are doing this, which you describe very well: that this Legal Service is working complementaryly on the Legal Council of the State - good, everyone will have its own competences and will play on the basis of what we assign to whom - and at the same time have the Scientific Council and the Scientific Service. I think that, because no one has an interest in either the confusion of competence on the one hand or the malfunction on the other, it would be right here to make it clear that it is part of the Scientific Council, since it is headed by the Scientific Council. Let me give you another reason, which is very important. There's no one who's enjoying... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like to put you to your tolerance. It matters. Let us assume that Mr Papatheodorou, a member of the Scientific Council, is appointed head of this service. It cannot, on the one hand, enjoy personal and operational independence and, on the other, accept orders from an official - of course, take care of it at all - in the legal sense of the term, that is, the person designated as an official in the Civil and Administrative Code. I would therefore say that this must also be changed. Otherwise, we will find it before us and we will simply create confusion of competence once again. We continue with the following two strange - if you want - provisions to me. When I say strange, with no suspicion, to God! Article 29, system of selection of heads. The system of selection of heads, in fact, we see that they are very rationalized. We have told the committees as well. I read that superintendents of organic units can be made and those holding grade I with an excess of at least 10 years to this degree or hold grade I with surplus time as well. In other words, someone who has never exercised an administrative authority at the level of a head of department, has no administrative authority at the level of the hierarchy, can become head of department. If you think this can work in favour of streamlining the functioning of the House, we simply disagree and tell you that it is wrong. And it is wrong, because this is not how a worthwhile functioning of the House is. And because we all want this remarkable function of the House, take it out and we will support the previous ones. Transitional provisions: I'm surprised. The interview for all other crises and assessments is at 20%. The transitional provisions for the first crises are 40%. What for? Is there any reason why, on the one hand, an employee should be judged at an interview of 40% and on the other, with 20%? It is irrational or appropriate, one of the two, and we should choose. Of course, we have proposed that it be 20% and that we support it for transitional provisions. Mr. President said 30%. I think - because I fully respect the person and the institution - in order to retreat and not change anything, there is a reason. That's why, if you want, I don't know him. I simply disagree with the provision and I do not think it creates a legal security climate for officials when they know that they are going to be judged in the interview with 40% and on an average basis. Why would I tell you something? And the other one, who's coming after, will change it again. This means legal certainty, that we agree to create a safe environment for workers, and this safe environment does not create it. On the contrary, what we are doing is to resolve situations in transition, until we reach the desired and desirable result. I have much more to say, Mr President, but since I have exceeded time, I will only give you one final phrase. There is time for these changes. There's time, even now, to go consensually. Change these. Change an organogram, which eventually does not form shocks, does not form consents. It is very little that you can change and create consensus conditions. It is very important, however, for what I have said to you, that the person working in this House will not change the working arrangements depending on who is the President of this House. Otherwise, small doors or small windows often create preconditions for arbitrary and authoritarianism and I think that no one wants this for the operation of the Parliamentary Republic and the quality of the operation of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou, special speaker of the Democratic Partnership. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece and Vice-President of the House, George Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, one intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u23	I'm sorry, Mr. Bright. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u24	I'm going to submit the legislative improvements. I am tabling them for the Minutes to share in the parliamentary groups as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u26	Members will speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u27	We have said that if there are Members who want to speak, one of each party, they can do so. Not now, to end the rapporteurs first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u28	Yeah, not now, absolutely. I'm putting my card on, but it's not registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u29	Because he hasn't opened a list, you state it. Mr. Davaki, we take note of it. Mr. Bright, I'm sorry, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the party wing the river]] As in the debate in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we have also, in our debate today in plenary on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, and we shall, of course, be presenting our objections, which will be borne in mind and determine our vote in principle, namely, the whole of the Rules of Procedure, apart from any remuneration - if you wish - of certain articles, which we shall vote on. So, in our view, it is a matter of principle and there are issues which appear in several articles, which we cannot agree on. I would like to mention to you, for example, the issues relating to the working relations of workers in this House - for example, Article 51 or Article 53, which contains in the specific regulations, but also the articles, which are provided for, incorporate - if you like - the legislation relating to ratings, the questions of interviews and the percentage, of course, of interview, wages, the evaluation of workers. These are issues to which we have disagreed and voted against the respective bills in Parliament, in plenary. Our disagreement is based on the contents and purposes they serve, through these tools. In other words, these are tools aimed at strengthening the same urban state in order to make it more effective and more authoritarian in order to serve this capitalist development path. In this respect, employees need employees, workers who will inevitably implement the specific policies that are being promoted. This is served not only by the evaluation of employees, but also by the assessment of the position, which leads to an individualized wage, but also by divisions in the same sector or category, even in the same service, the same office. Nor can we consent or agree with the work relations proposed, for example, with individual contracts, works contracts, fixed-term contracts, etc. The fact that contractors will not exist - for example in cleanliness - and in committee, but also from this step, we say that we agree. However, there is no question that individual contracts will exist, remain and perpetuate. The position of the Communist Party of Greece, in terms of labour relations, in terms of workers' jobs, which we are talking about is permanent and we claim permanent and stable jobs for workers with full rights, not only for the workers in this House, but also in all areas. We cannot therefore consent to the worsening of the position of workers, all workers, regardless of where they work. As far as the changes proposed concerning the establishment plan and the administrative organisation are concerned, we have no serious objections. On the other hand, they are issues which life itself, the act itself, possibly tomorrow - need other adjustments, depending on the needs of the House as well. We think it is a good thing that the President of Parliament will not decide on all matters alone. As far as the channel of Parliament is concerned, as we have tabled to the committee, but also from this step, we have proposed - and we are discussing it - that the Conference of Presidents, or, possibly, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, these institutions or one of the two, should have a say, that they should be involved in the direction of expressing their opinion, but also in the exercise of any control over the President of Parliament - the President of the Parliament - and in matters relating to the administration and control. We say that there should be a possibility of intervention, not always in the direction of protest or complaint etc., but that it should be possible for parties, if you wish, to be able to contribute with proposals so that there can also be a better quality in the operation of the channel of Parliament, the radio and so on. On the part, which concerns the parliamentary part, which includes Articles 55, 56, 57, as regards the proposed Vice-President in addition to the fifth parliamentary force, the group, etc., in order to cover the posts and not to be vacant, we have no objection. We have said so in committee too. The same is true of Rule 56, in other words, the right to vote in the Conference of Presidents, which we consider to be in order, as set out. But we do not agree with Article 57, which is about shortening the procedures, in the form of the urgency of the bills. It is, in other words, about the vote and debate of the bills that come in this way, the urgent way. The fact that this procedure has been implemented, and indeed too many times, as has been said by the rapporteurs in the committee, but also by the debate we have been having here so far, does not mean that it should also be institutionalised and not the opposite that has been heard that it has been tested in practice but is good, or we should have institutionalised it. We have also tabled to the committee our view that we are talking about suffocating procedures. We all know, we can't hide. They are literally exorbitant procedures for both Members, but also for those who assist the work of the MPs and, in fact, one does not have time to be informed, but also to prepare itself properly for the legislative work. On the basis of all this, we are voting in favour of the principle. Of course, as I said at the outset, there are articles that we will vote on. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u31	Thank you for the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Lambroulis. The reason for this is the special speaker from Potami, Mr. Spyridon Lykoudis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I shall speak from my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u33	No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, before, in substance, I would like to speak on this subject, I would like to say something that I feel is an obligation and is not within the framework of a political parliamentary compliment or within a political tactic that we usually have on many issues all of us. I would like to express my deep thanks to the staff of this House, to the services, to our dear colleagues, from managers to under-paid staff, for the valuable help I had and - I think - and other colleagues from us during our presence in this House. I have a few years in the House and I have become acquainted with too many day-to-day functions in the House. However, without the valuable help of the friends and fellow Members of this House, I would feel a parliamentary political disability. In this sense and because I constantly have this need, I would like to express my thanks once again and say how much I respect them and honour them sincerely and without gratitude. It's an honest statement of a personal experience. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I shall say what the President, Mr Tragakis, said. I think we've had a good conversation so far. In the committees that we have met, but also in private meetings with the President and the Secretary-General, I also think, with valuable help on the basis of the experiences of President Tragakis, I have the impression that we have all received an overall picture, which is very positive for us to draw some conclusions. I support what we have all had in mind for some time now is that there is a need for a reorder, a remodelling, a recast in the entire Rules of Procedure of Parliament in respect of the provisions which we are now debating to be more efficient, more efficient and to be a spacious and more serious producer of parliamentary procedures. That is what I think is now being achieved. I am not making any concessions or remarks which I do not believe I am making, and that is why I am not making political controversy. What I'm saying is that. I think that this type of comfort and the greatest diversity in the process, which we are discussing, of a regulation as we are discussing now, is present. However, there are a few comments I would like to make. I was under the impression - I say this because the President, but also the Secretary here, is present - that a number of comments we have made to the committees or were not taken into account or taken into consideration and were not considered useful. Both may happen and that's not bad. It's just someone who's done it or who agreed when someone else did it has to repeat it. I'm talking about three. First of all in the molecules case. I do not need to have a special debate on this. Mr. Tragakis said it and I agree. And I think that Mr Tragakis, who was more thorough and effective, did not take into account the proposal he had made on this issue. The second relates to the issue of the Legal Support Committee and its relationship with the Scientific Council and the Scientific Agency. We said this: Since this Scientific Council exists, with excellent work on the past, what do we need from this Legal Support Office? It has been said - and I tell you that we have been convinced by most - that the daily needs of Parliament's functions may require or require legal support which may not have been directly supported when the procedure was required by the Scientific Council. And we said it could be, so let's take it. It was, however, a proposal if the head or staff of this Legal Support Committee came from the Scientific Council to be subject to the Scientific Council. And it is so obvious that it is reasonable that I really think of this: if an overall effort that is now being put forward is rational, does not appear as if we were not to accept this proposal? I have the impression you should see it again. And you may see it during today's sitting. We do not have to stick to what the dear President, Mr Voutsis, said last time, that, if we see that there are malfunctions or rigidities, we are here to see them all again. We're not putting any zippers in the conversation. But we need to see something again, and if we can see it now, we need to solve it. A third point is a point I made on Article 48. I was assured by the President-in-Office that he was taken into account in the drafting of the article. Indeed, he told me - and in a sense I would say that personally, friendlyly and parliamentaryly thanked me for this - that we made a serious comment, which they also took into account. Seeing Article 48 now, Mr General, there is a word recast, but in essence its core has not changed. Unless I can't do a good reading. You know that I on these issues am very discreet and in a sense concessionary to his logic across. I may not understand anything or do a good reading. No way. I think, however, that the core core has remained and has simply become verbal recast. However, I say that we can also discuss this, because - I say it again - I may not have done a good, substantial and in-depth reading. With regard to the Special Thematic Secretary, the comments made have been taken into account. The fact that, even as a matter of priority, it may come from the official staff of the Parliament, this is a positive development in relation to these matters. For the channel of Parliament, I think the remarks made by the House are correct. And I think that the Communist Party of Greece has made serious remarks on this. Can I tell you one more thing? As far as the negative experience we have all had from the recent past regarding the use of the channel of Parliament is concerned, no matter how critical it is now, it is, however, like having opened a door to heaven. So we must also see that, despite the fact that you must take these comments into account. We believe that the effort made with the coming plan streamlines the functions of the services. It saves resources and that is very essential. Mostly - and I would like to say this - it has a point with political characteristics, despite the fact that Part II of the Rules of Procedure mainly has operational issues. It places the President's responsibilities in plenary, i.e. it devolves the strong presidential character of the functions. I, therefore, feel obliged at this time, despite the fact that we are discussing the Rules of Procedure relating to other matters, that I should like to know why it is not customary. The return is what usually happened. When I assess my own and our party as a whole what matters, ladies and gentlemen, when you judge a proposal as a whole which is either purely political or cultural, what leads you to vote is the overall philosophy of the project. I believe that the political proposal, which is tabled, the overall philosophy of the project with all the negative ones, which I pointed out before and for which we are fully concerned - may be negative on these issues, if they are not corrected - is in a positive and correct direction. In this sense, we repeat that our vote is a positive vote in the draft legislation in principle, as it was in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u35	Thank you for the special speaker from the Potami, Mr. Lykoudi. The reason is the special speaker from the Independent Greeks Mr. Vassilis Kokalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that this draft law introduces provisions aimed at rationalising Parliament's services. At this point I would like to thank on behalf of the Group of Independent Greeks all the staff of the Parliament for helping Members. Indeed, their work is excellent. Most devices are in a positive direction. Provisions concerning the grading, wage classification of workers and the selection of heads of organic units always aiming at the integrity and improvement of human resources by harmonising laws 4354/2015 and 4369/2016. We had made a few comments in committee. First of all, we fully agree with the Legal Support Office. They are other tasks of the Legal Support Office and other tasks of the Scientific Service of the Parliament. This is clear and must be understood by everyone. Seriously and importantly, the tasks of the Parliament's Scientific Office, a crucial role, but the Legal Support Office is also crucial. We had, of course, proposed that it should not have an effect on the Scientific Agency. I'm coming to Article 30. As we have said in committee, we are in principle in agreement with the bill. However, we have a reservation on Article 30 as regards moleculosis. In Part I, we are not voting on Article 55. We are voting on Rule 56 and Rule 57, which refers to the letter of vote and the abbreviation of the deadlines. I would like to refer a little to the transitional provisions of Article 30. It would be nice to harmonize it as best as possible with the Vernardakis law. These are our remarks, Mr President. Otherwise, the bill is in a positive direction, at least most of the provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u37	Thank you for the special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr. Vasilis. The special speaker from the Association of Centres, Mr Georgios and Mr Dimitrios Karras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, thank you. I consider it an opportunity for me to be given the opportunity to participate in the debate on the Rules of Procedure of the House on the grounds that the Rules of Procedure of the House are not an organisational chart of a ministry which is led by a minister because he has the absolute authority over his ministry and defines the policy. The House is a body composed of many parties, different political views, different times worldviews. The House therefore needs to make a composition so that it can deliver, because the House is helping to preserve and improve democracy. We therefore believe that the Rules of Procedure which comes in Part II today is positive. First of all, we have said to the committee where I was placed, that we are in agreement for two reasons. The first reason is that the texts are now consolidated, a codification takes place. Secondly, they will be able to debate more widely, because a part is removed from the authority of the President of the Parliament where the special party previously defined it by means of specific regulations. It will now be possible for the debate to take place in plenary, so with an exchange of views on the subject of broader participation, it will end up in composition and efficiency. I have also told the committee that as a new MEP - nine months is our party in Parliament - we have relied on the staff of this House. We believe that we have been greatly assisted, because none of us had any parliamentary experience to support each other. We have all addressed the services of this House and found a response. I can say, today, after nine months of attendance, that we have become good students. On the subject of the Rules of Procedure, now. He's got positive provisions. There's no doubt about it. It is a text that we believe will deliver. and we believe that the President-in-Office of the Council, in his expression, is being mitigated - and we believe that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure or any other committee of Parliament is taking part in the procedure. However, there are a number of issues that you will allow me to make, even though they have been mentioned in great detail by my previous colleagues, to make a far-reaching remark. For the Thematic Secretary, I have expressed the view broader in the law of the Ministry of Interior, in the Vernardakis law, that abuse is taking place. We have in the Ministries of General Secretaries, we have special secretaries - recently, since autumn - we also have administrative secretaries and possibly we may also have substitutes for the administrative secretaries. I don't understand it. In particular, I have one comment in the Thematic Secretary of Parliament: it does not make me clear exactly what his responsibilities will be. Its responsibilities, as described, will be decided by the President of the Parliament, who will determine its scope. Will the Secretary-General have the responsibilities today and tomorrow's responsibilities, as the President of Parliament will decide? There is no restriction on the law that a single decision will be taken to determine the powers and powers of the Thematic Secretary in the biennial session. I am therefore a reservation on this point. Another important point, which you will allow me to go further, is on the subject of the Strategic Planning and Restructuring of Parliament's services. There is a word in there that "certifies" this service of Parliament. I would like to ask why I have not received this answer: when we say 'certification' we mean that we will also rate services? Do we mean that a report will be drawn up which will be published, so that we can know the degree of adequacy and efficiency? This certification will be subjective - if we are talking about certification at the end and it is not badly formulated - or it will be based on standards, which - to talk about certification, there should be standards - we do not have them here in the Rules of Procedure, or at least the Rules of Procedure do not reserve to tell us what standards will be taken into account in order to carry out certification of services. This is a reflection which, in fact, needs to be expressed, at least by me, because, in the sense of certification, I am afraid - not that there is the intention - that there is a wide scope and arbitrariness still. Of course, for the Legal Support Department of Parliament's services I have expressed the view twice in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and I agree with the views of all Members where questions arise as to whether they will fall under the Scientific Service or not, whether or not they will be headed by the Legal Service, a representative of the Legal Service. Impossible issues. We are therefore proposing that either the Legal Support Department be completely out of place or it should not go into the Rules of Procedure, because there are the services of the Legal Adviser of the State, which is in this House, which can serve the needs or should be placed directly under the Scientific Committee. For something else - if you like - I should like to make one comment: it has been heard - I do not know, but in my opinion I do not think it is possible - to provide legal support for the staff of this House and, possibly, for criminal matters. But has the staff of this House ever been accused of violating duty? This needs other services, such as ministries. I repeat, Mr President, that I do not know. I did. But I want to hear if that exists. If there are such questions of defence in the criminal courts, yes, there should be a section of legal support. I have no objections. However, if it is a argument which we have just found to refer to the need, no, you understand, I do not have the position that it should exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u39	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u40	Questions but now in relation to the so-called'structured interview': A great deal has been said. I shall refer more to the transitional provisions where we will now have the first assessment. There's a matter there. The first issue is that, at the transitional stage, the evaluations of the past will not be taken into account. This is incomprehensible, because an official on his way, on his long path - there are experienced officials in the House - will have reports and will want to use them for his further development. Why are we taking them to the band? It can't be seen. Another issue raised by all my colleagues is the high degree in the transitional provisions of the so-called'structured interview'. If I'm not mistaken, it's 40%. This stage for all staff categories, from the Head of Division to the Head of Directorate-General, is a large number. Here you will allow me to use some personal knowledge and experience. Constitutionally - and since the Rules of Procedure are a law - it has been accepted that, with Article 103(7) of the Constitution, transparency is not only required when recruiting staff in the public or in the public sector. Transparency, as has been thought, should also apply to the cases of promotion and development of staff. Concerns are therefore raised, given that the "structured interview" is always subjective, not by the intention of those who receive it. As long as there are no formulae or standards, the'structured interview' at least on the score given after the establishment of the committee is subjective within it. I want to read you a shortcut from a recent court ruling. You'll allow me. I am most addressing Mr Syrgyrgos and the other of us who have dealt with this issue. "As a result of the high rate - we are talking about an interview - coupled with the fact that this choice instrument entails the greatest possibility of a subjective crisis in the interview, it should be ensured with stronger guarantees of transparency and judicial control - i.e. publicity - in the course of the interview and the obligation to observe practice." Even though we are staying in the'structured interview', issues of 40% are being raised in the transitional provisions. Again 30%, 25%, 20% we have in the fixed trunk is a high point. However, 40% in our view is too much, because in the face of subjectivity, which it contains, it will never be able to justify itself. I must add this: it is a daily phenomenon of the question of ratings given to the wider public sector by committees receiving the interview. That is where most of the promotions are cancelled. Why is that? Because either the practice drawn up in the course of the interview is inadequate or the rating cannot be justified. In this case, the Rules of Procedure of the House as they come, where there is no formulae of mathematics in order to score the candidate for the post of responsibility, will never be justified. In order to move away from these issues, I propose that at least 40%, Mr President, be put on an equal footing of 30%, 25%, 20%, which is at the bottom of the Rules of Procedure so that we have a unity. As long as we maintain 40% in the first crisis, after the vote on the Rules of Procedure, it is certain that there will be issues of inequality in the way. Because the one who comes at a next stage to judge - after six months, a year, I do not know when the previous one's term of office will expire - will be rated, quantifiable with 25%, with 30%, 20%, depending on the position of responsibility that has been and will have been wronged by the one who would seek the transition stage to be assessed and would not get 40% and someone would have taken the lead. And there will be actions for damages against the House under Article 105 of the Introductory Law. I take that for granted. But I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the Rules of Procedure of the House are an extremely legal text, because it is an agency of services. It regulates not only the operation of services, not only the status of staff, but also the exercise of the legislative function. Because the performance of the services to the Members and the functioning of the House is also increasing the level of legislation. If we are served by the Members, we have the help, the assistance of the staff, we can best deliver the legislative work with which we are responsible, since we have been honoured by the vote of the Greek people. I therefore think that these remarks should be taken into account by the House in general - I am talking about the interview, I am talking about the Legal Support Department, I am talking about the Special Thematic Secretary - so that these issues can be resolved and resolved. On the question of the television station in this House, I think the coordinator - and I agree with the proposal by the Communist Party - should have the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, like the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, has one element, one of the majority, because it is made up by a majority of the first party. I do not think, in other words, that the crisis of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure or the Ethics Committee can always be objective. In any case, it is a collective body that we all accept in Parliament. We accept the validity of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, as we often accept their decisions on various issues. In this sense, therefore, I think Parliament's channel also has a pluralism element. Of course, it actually applies. I have no objections. At least, I understand that in practice, parliamentary control and legislative work are equally projected. We have no violations, no issues we can complain about. But let us shield it for the future. To conclude, Mr President, I will make a complaint, which I have done further and which I have done, and to Mr Voutsi, too, in relation to the amendments. I won't say there's a lot of people coming in, law trial, etc. But you should be careful when an amendment is coming to Parliament which is manifestly unconstitutional. We've got cases like this. The government doesn't take care of that. The government has allowed time to run for it, and at the last minute it appears urgent to legislate. So that's where they're invading issues of unconstitutionality. I think, therefore, that the next meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should identify the question of the possibility of presenting an objection of unconstitutionality by a Member so that it does not conflict with the argument that 'you know something, you did not bring it to the fore'. But I knew what you'd bring me at the beginning. You brought me the development law, and on the way we found migration issues, we found themes of the Ministry of Education, we found themes of candidate drivers and not at all. So I think, Mr President, that you should deal with this at a next meeting. What does that contribute to? I have said - Mr President, I will not go into detail this. When a constitutional order is exercised, the House is the only body that has primary authority. It's primary power. Let us support it, because that is how we will be upgraded outwards. Today in the way of the amendments, in the way of legislative improvements - I am in the area of law and I hear various opinions - many complain or - if you like - that lawyers cannot understand a law which is being voted on. We are all listening to them, ladies and gentlemen. It doesn't matter what side one belongs to one or the other. We hear that we are not capable of legislating. I sum up with these thoughts. We agree at first. We have already said so in committee. In many articles we agree and will vote on them. I have made three, four comments and we look forward to the improvement that will be made so that we can say that we have contributed, we have also contributed from the point of view of the Union of Centres to the promotion of Parliament's work. You will allow me to make a statement on the Minutes of three Courts - it is the Council of State - on the way in which the structured interviews are audited and what information they want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u41	Thank you for the special speaker of the Association of Centres, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras. The President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to speak with a short time, of course without reaching anything in the past, because I have been informed of the time-consuming positions of the Presidents - which were there when the Rules were being discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today is a good day for the House. In this sense I also welcome the fact that, apart from the individual arguments, there has been no climate of great political disparity or misery or of non-recognition of the efforts we have taken together. I want to be very honest in a few things, and I will refer to issues that have not been raised. It is a great opportunity because this meeting is public and many Members of Parliament and colleagues who are not present now - they will see the Minutes - but also the journalists who are attending, can come closer to Parliament as far as the material and functions of the House is concerned, apart from every one of these parliamentary work with which we are all in a daily friction and contact. First of all, I would like to say that it is an option that we are talking about all these issues today and that there is a commitment to close down with changes in the first part of the Rules of Procedure in the very near future. It is a choice that could not have been made. It wasn't required. There was as a request, which had been submitted, as well as other requests. It would have been possible in these rather difficult months that we have spent - there was the burden on the legislative work and the well-known limitation and surveillance conditions with which we operate, we have said it - that this thing should have been left next, that we have not had time to catch up, that we have not opened it as a priority, etc. The general choice made by the Bureau of Parliament, with the full support and work done by the Secretary-General, the Special Secretary, the services of the House and then the representatives of the parties at the time to give their opinion, is that we are opening it all up. So, in this House, which has all this difficult task, we have jointly set a goal, to be a parliament which within the three - four years of its operation, to close this painful cycle of crisis for the country, which has been overshadowing. That's the political objective. At the same time, a parliament corresponding to Greece after the crisis should not be a parliament with functions and with hostages and with remnants of the past, which will then be called upon to modernise, etc. It is a political choice that this effort is being made. I think it is particularly important that it is followed by an unprecedented, completely unprecedented, but a democratic process with regard to the fact that, on the one hand, the issues that we are discussing today have also been discussed in time with the trade union and with the workers - and, on the other, I repeat, unprecedented procedure for Parliament. Furthermore, it is self-evident, but unprecedented, that Mr Spyros Lykoudis has already made a hint - the House itself has full knowledge and opinion of all the matter - that there should not be gray areas in the Rules of Procedure of this House. Rehabilitate both. Partially? There could be more debate or more debate when we discuss the first part of the Rules of Procedure, etc.Huh? Accepted. We have opened up, however, and we are now opening this road to do so. It's important. Let me also say something that concerns me for this time, as long as I have been invited to play this role in the House, but it will be a precedent for the next ones, which will be difficult to do. From a strong privileged, to the limits of political authoritarianism, a regime of presidential function of the House, step by step, institutionalized by the institution, acknowledging the realities, we are moving towards an institutional relaxation of this capacity and the very great powers that the President has and has in this House, so that we can go to a more democratic function. It is a good thing for both the democracy and the functioning of the House. I shall refer to an example that I mentioned in my first speech when I was elected to this task, to this role. Perhaps most of them, as you were - men and women - younger Members, you did not realize it. We had talked about the special regulations at the time. The special regulations, as a statute, for a multitude of functions of the Parliament, apart from never coming to debate, were not in the Greek Parliament's approval, but were shaped by a decision of the Presidents, were in fact, with the best of the conditions - which we know that sometimes you are driving to hell following these roads - the field through which they were fully shaped by special, privileged, clientele, or any other relationships at the level of appointments, wages, movements, etc. Was this prepared by the former Presidents of the Parliament, and are we now coming to shoot the shit in the past and everything else? No way. I want to be very clear, everything I say and everything I say to you is not about being self-interested in previous colleagues, who in recent decades, after the repatriation, have helped too much to extend their activities, to get in touch with society, to gain more functions, to be able to do better, to develop in the area of parliamentary diplomacy and in many other areas, which have been done over the past few years. I am not referring at all to colleagues or colleagues who have previously been in this role. It wasn't easy then. In other words, new services were created, there was also a special regulation, so that it could respond and go ahead, and that remained. It's not a ministry, the House. There are objective reasons and I accept them. In ministries, for example, there is institutional memory within services, the data for organograms are available. Here the parties are changing, allied or autonomous governments are coming, bipartisan, changing the presidents, changing the status quo, everyone is in front of some loose ends, political events are coming, and they cannot cope, because they are not a priority, and they remain for the next one. But, for example, the fact that this House 15 years ago has had exactly half of what it has now, which has been an attempt in recent years to stay those who are now and are not much more, is a fact that happened through a process of non-regulatory, non-regulated, which we are trying to do in a way now. I say these and I say them publicly, so that those of the journalists want to understand, who are brilliant people and good press officials, but they are usually told, "Write something up for the House." Some of them, few, serve a type of journalism. I want to be very clear. Of course there were services in this House, because there was no other way of getting employees in this House into various services - I say, interpreting the past - they came through these agencies and special regulations. For example, in the garage of the House there were sixty organic positions, indeed involving secretaries to various specialties. One of these is eight that operate in the garage of the House. Others have been well-qualified for years and with specific functions within the House in other services. There are neither counterfeits nor anything else, but in these ways, which, in the first place and ultimately, are not normal, were these. I am telling you all this because in the last few days we are not answering this question. I am used here to answer and I will reply a little later and for some things that the Chief of Staff has put in place for the operation of the House. We're not answering. It is not that we have no point in answering, but it has no meaning but a relevant print now to improve, correct and change situations. Otherwise, if we start to give the files we found or those we did not find and look for a number of things, we will simply attack a miserable populism against Parliament, parliamentaryism, the political system, etc. Because, I repeat, the function of this House is so diverse, it has been developed, through critical periods, which makes sense to have loose ends, which we are now pointing out and trying one by one - and others will be pointed out in the future - to improve them. It is also important that we voted in this House on the Code of Conduct or Ethics of Members, etc., which all modern parliaments have and which had also started a very serious procedure with the help of the Scientific Committee - I see its chairman here - which had not been completed. In general, we complete and close things within nine months that had not been completed. This makes me proud of this function of the House, while there are other things that happen to it in every parliamentary work, for example, that all of us are pressing for the democratic, adequacy or implementation of the Rules of Procedure in relation to the functioning of the House. I come to some more specific issues. We are therefore leaving the special regulation regime. They enter the general part - as far as the general part is concerned - and experts are attached. I repeat the misunderstanding so that it is not repeated: for organic positions in the existing establishment plans, which are simply repeated, because they have been in the special regulations for so many years. Most of these positions are not covered, they will not be covered or some that had been covered, they have gone elsewhere. It is not just the garage - so I mentioned it to you - but, for example, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Do you know how many people have entered the Committee through the Special Rules of Procedure, and how many of them are operating in the Committee on Everlasts, and how many of them in other services? Lots of people. We see them and we will slowly change them all, but not at the expense of staff, because I repeat that they operate where they have gone and are not talking about situations where they are at home or elsewhere. Allow me yet another parentheses here on an issue which we will not resolve today, but I would very much like the parties, in particular the former and in future major parties and the others - I do not now go to this debate - to take it seriously, because some questions have also been asked - at least in committee - as'show us where the officials of this House are' etc. A measure should be introduced, one to fifteen at a time for the members of the parties, one to ten etc. and, respectively, to be in the service of Parliament's parties, that is to say, that there should be an even unification in this regard. It is not possible, for example, for a party that has half the Members from today's ruling or co-government party - I mean, in relation to SYRIZA - to have five-fold of Parliament's officials in its services, that is to say, seventy, and it should have fifteen. It's not right. There's more for other parties. That is why I also said to Mr Papatheodorou, Mr Papatheodorou, in the last debate in this House, which he rightly asked to record all the cases of posts, staff, etc., that this should be done in a responsible way and in all directions to understand, so that there can be the necessary balance to serve everyone, because otherwise I repeat that there are imbalances, imbalances and imbalances without precedent. I come to the subject of the Theme Secretary we are talking about. As far as we are concerned, the Secretary-General will, for the present Bureau of Parliament, be from the senior official - in any case - by the staff of the administration of the Parliament. It's not going to be from somewhere else. It is clear and it is a commitment. His job will be to strengthen the work that we have done to pick up the trachea we have spread, what I referred to at the outset. We've opened up all the files we've found and looked for and those we haven't found, but where someone's throwing an idea and saying - the President said before - 'What about the boxboard, where is it? Is there any property of Parliament?’. The last institution has ten to thousands of benets. You know there's no legacy in this House? Do you think it's possible? I don't know. There may be. They're not registered anywhere. Not even a trace of the property of this House is nowhere recorded, it is not yesterday, it has no legal status for the House to claim it, or we can get a licence, for example, for the extension of projects such as for Philly. I could as engineer about one - one of the projects - Mr Tragakis mentioned -, such as the claim of the Old Parliament, for Benakio, which we are starting the work of the 11 million euros approved by the December budget and a multitude of others. But it doesn't exist. There isn't. Don't look for it any more. There isn't! It is a mixed system in which the House, in which the House is self-evidently referred to as Parliament, makes a contract - for example - with Onasios for the opposite building - which I do not know now how to break it to our own building - elsewhere is doing through the CED. For example, the entire Metropolitan building is in the CED last year at the Public Building Company. It's not a parliament. The House bought it all with Parliament's money. But he's in the CDC. I repeat, I could talk to you for hours. These have been searched, all nights the services and the people in charge have been looking. I'm saying it a little bit in detail, because some people are listening to us. And write something down. I urge them to make a real report instead of - let us say - that "the Voutsi system appoints the party red state in Parliament". Something nonsense, something stupid. Let anyone who wants to come in and see how many employees are, how many people are now, who, if they're in, where they're in, where they're in, and so on. So I come to the subject of the Theme Secretary. The Thematic Secretary, like the Legal Service, for which a lot of debate is taking place - and that is right - will deal with items which had actually been put under the carpet because Parliament did not deal with in previous years. It's not right we didn't deal with it after all. And it's all our fault. Because we were a strong opposition for three years, we are government for a year and a half. I do not blame, I repeat, any former President - Mrs or Mr - and no situation in general. For God's sake! It's unfinished, but it's great loose ends. There are tens of acres somewhere, say, in North Attica for which - probably now it is not the House, because they were through some strange five-year renewals to the concession given to Parliament, 80 acres - there are files for studies of 1.5 million euros that have been made for future buildings that would be built there. We don't even know the extent yet. We know the studies. We know the offices that got them twenty-five, thirty years ago, about what things they were. We'll see. It's obvious that it was something that started, didn't succeed and it stopped. He was under the table. I repeat, there are many issues that we have to deal with on the one hand, and on the other hand, the legal, scientific, research, research and development, and support. But, with an extra executive, I repeat, through here there is a responsibility for this. It has nothing to do with either monitoring of services or monitoring of services, etc. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The position will be for these things, as I have told you, on a number of large dossiers on big issues which are unfinished in Parliament. That's what this is about. And over there, he needs support. I also come to the issue of the Legal Service. I am responsible and I take all the responsibility - it can change, everything can be changed in two, three years, six months, if we see that it is not right - for this absolutely way in which the Legal Service of Parliament is not under the Scientific Committee of Parliament. And I am responsible for the fact that, first of all, I fully respect and have full knowledge of the excellent and useful work done by the Scientific Committee of Parliament, which must be - and it is for the time being - 100 % geared to legislative work, parliamentary work and the great loose ends. When we look at the Constitution, not only in this House, you know how much topics are raised in the day-to-day functioning of the House, to open up or not to open matters, and we ask what they have to do with the Constitution, that is to say, all this work that is the heart of Parliament's operation. So that's got to be it. It must be nothing else. Nor should Mr Mavrias - I call him now because he has a historic path of multi-yearly respect for the teacher, like the other colleagues there - nor should the other Members with the persecution industry who have been for staff in the last few months for χ, χ, g, let it pass, we will see how it will end - for a number of minor, second, third, extrajudicial reasons. There was. There are other issues, not citizens, but in the context. You understand. They must not have anything to do with this, nor should they be running at the basement stores in the country, as I said before, in the CED, in the discussions that must now take place on the integration of the Parliament's property or not into the fund, etc. Take it, see where they say it. These are big, major issues. Alas, if the Scientific Committee of the Parliament had this work to do as well. He wouldn't do it well. That is why I want to be clear, and I take all the responsibility. And he probably wouldn't do the other thing. Because the COSCO Convention, which we have to vote on by Thursday or Friday, is to be taken over by the Prime Minister for China. You understand what the Scientific Committee of Parliament has to do for one time. So things are specific. That is why I am used to speaking with examples of understanding. There is no selfishness, no secret thought, no substitution, no vengeance of the committee. After all, the chairman of the Scientific Committee is formally in charge. He's president at anything. Until the Foundations in Crete I've been put in presidentship. The President's head. I mean, there's nothing else that controls us and puts us in place. And support from the Scientific Committee and from the President to the President-in-Office and to me is incomplete. So that's not the point. A matter was therefore raised from the outset on the substance. Let's make it quite clear, please. There is another area in which this Committee on Strategic Planning should help. It's obvious he has nothing to do with internal control, etc. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: It has been mentioned very importantly - in the sense that Mr Tragakis also raised it as a subject - the issue of the digital age and the preparation - not only of the study, has already been given, it is starting, we are in the process of implementing the overall electronic governance on the basis of a digital signature now, which we will have, throughout this House. I mean, we're going to this time as a parliament. At the same time, there are projects carried out by the Agency, by the ESDP and the non-SRF, namely interparliamentary, European and large projects, which are taken from Parliament by the relevant Technical Committee - which is not exactly technical, it is another Service under Mr Svolopoulos - as well as a series of other strategic changes in the way this House operates. Therefore, this is very clearly an advisory committee, which will bring a statute to the House of Modernisation and necessary changes in the way. In other words, we will leave the regime of 'what we are collecting for two to three years as a need for change, put them down to do', and we can go to a regime in motion - that is to say, by contacting through this strategic committee with what is happening in the other parliaments, what needs arise here on a daily basis or less every day, what the necessary areas need to be in the operation of Parliament, etc. - to be translated into changes to the Rules of Procedure or to changes in operation, etc. So this is not an internal audit. This is purely an advisory, scientific, serious committee. I come to the question of economics. It has been heard - I think again by Mr Tragakis - that the question of the penetration of the General Accounting Office of the State, which is now simple monitoring, etc. It is not a simple matter at all, and we know it, in the regime and the budgetary commitments that the country has made and the monitoring. On the question of preventive controls, for example, the Economic Office of the Parliament has a clear position, the position of local government and others, that preventive control, and indeed the lowest possible amount, is helpful, which is contrary to the general principle that has now passed the legislation, under the pressure from outside. It is an issue which the Court of Auditors is too concerned with and we can see how there will be even transitional periods, etc. It is an open issue and a debate with the General Accounting Office of the State. There are views there at this stage that want a full control of Parliament's finances, that is to say, through general government, directly there. A modus vivendi has been found in consultation with the Economic Services and the General Accounting Office of the State, with the Minister, but which is on animated sand, because we are all in such animated sand. It has to be in knowledge, we need to know, we need to guard it. We no longer have to safeguard - and this is at the expense of workers, and they know that, three years ago, discussions had taken place here - no special scheme, a privileged wage scheme. This isn't about it. There are no fourteenth, fifteenth and sixteenth wages there are no special benefits. But, for example, there is something self-evident. I say this directly and openly because yesterday and today, the largest approved Athens newspaper dealt with the matter. Someone had given a billet "in view of today's debate, let's whisper a little bit, did the Voutsi system give some overtime to friends". That is why I refer to it here. There is no need to answer privately. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] There is the question of overtime allowance, which, according to the pyramid, is about function, is about all the officials of this Parliament. It's specific, has ratings, reaches max 500 euros. It starts with a minimum amount, but in the current circumstances it is a sum. It concerns all the employees in the House, not the one thousand five hundred. It concerns those working here in the ELTAs, the guard, the employees of the Services, the National Bank. This is the extra, which is perfectly reasonable, because the House has no working hours. Now at 6 p.m. a new bill will be launched, not to say about weekends and the rest, and it is therefore well-defined. In other words, all the staff of this House - regardless of what happened with the Members you mentioned - and in the first phase of integration with civil servants, with the single wage, but now, as from 1 June, they are expected to be in the same fate. So there is no press issue in this regard 'giving overtime to the House'. These abstract and highly interparliamentary things - and I am referring to all parties - are representatives here of all parties, older and younger - should also leave the fence of conflicts and conflicts between us and everything else. That is why I also referred to amounts, so that we know what happens to us. I come to the point raised for the Parliamentary channel. In these months we have tried from the existing potential of directors, technicians, etc. to form a five-member coordination boarding scheme, which should be kept and to have the greatest possible understanding. We have been asked either the secretaries or us a few times. We add to the Rules of Procedure, in the sense of 'either', that there could also be a coordinator or not. For now, it doesn't exist. So we add - and not just for the channel, but for all the services, and indeed for those that will continue to exist in the special regulations, which are three, if I am not mistaken, that is to say, the European programmes that I mentioned earlier, such as the special account, etc. - that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, as is done in the Committee on Institutional Affairs and the Transparency for the Governors of the CECO, on a quarterly basis, will come the proposals for the heads of these committees which may have the fate, processing and voting by the workers there. This was also done at the Parliamentary Press Office. There was a vote eight months ago, between the workers and it came to the attention of the House's Press Office and in one year it will be repeated. We accepted the proposal put forward by colleagues there. So the coordinator, the five-member coordinator, will also come to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and report what they have in programming, take advice or objections or criticism or anything. So on persons, there will also be, in these special services, an opinion of the House, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an issue of evaluation of staff, selection of heads, etc. It is also a matter on which there had not been a correlation between Parliament in previous years, as was the case before the crisis and within the public authorities. It is a demand for this world to have this process to a minimum and I think there is a great deal of agreement on this issue. On the issue of molecularisation, the final legislative practice, which I shall be tabling, is to go at the exact rate planned, which will be both in the ministries and in the other public services. We should, in other words, go with those percentages, if I remember well 20%, 30%, 40%. Let us go with this, there is no difference, since there has been no difference in this matter, unless it is something else that I am open to change. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, presents the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] To enter page 109)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u43	I would ask that the honourable Members be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u44	I want to tell you there are savings in the House. You have given the figures which are 40%, 37.5% in the general budget from the workers and from the Members. The Greek Parliament cannot be a cheap parliament. I want to be very clear about this. These impairment rates are the highest we have been able to do so far. There may also be other possibilities and flexibilities that can be added from somewhere every day. For example, the funds for what is called the "Social Republic" where Greek MPs are in all agencies, in all Parliamentary Committees of the Organisations and in dozens of Committees of Friendships around the world, are a very important job for the country itself, for the Parliament, etc., as well as other services and other expenses. We could do nothing about two factors, but they are absolutely decisive for the opening of the House to society and for the relationship between the House and society and the acquisition of self-sufficiency and support as a Parliament, as a function in its own buildings, etc. That's two funds. One is sponsorship. They are sponsorships for the seventy children of citizens who have lost their lives during the performance of their duties on lists and through special committees the support given by the House. There are also sponsorships following a very specific procedure for the submission of programmes and then for the accounting process, for the creation of grants and, in fact, for the crisis, for the support of unaccompanied people, in relation to the crisis, to cultural creation. It is a package which, in my opinion, needs to be extended with the greatest possible transparency and justice. It is not to be cut in his name that "Here in the House they are doing". It's not like that. A lot of people are coming here. The day before yesterday, we 'we've put' a tattan. I'm saying it in quotes so we don't get any poetry here. With the support of the House, a tatar was placed on a field in the court in the prisons of minors. They had no resources from somewhere else, nor did they have the Ministry of Justice to support this. I'm calling it a sample. So this is an area. The second area concerns buildings and others. You suggested it before. The status of the Old Parliament cannot continue to be unregulated. There isn't. That's where you're looking for contracts to see. There isn't. They start from Eleftherios Venizelos, they go to all the occupying prime ministers, to some personal decrees, to some agreements, until at the end of the year 2000 the National Society was given, say, the Status of the Ethological Museum where it now had a very large grant - and good for it because it has done a very good job - from the Ministry of Culture, without the Ministry of Culture having an affair, to say, with this company or with the building of the Old Parliament. The former MPs came here and asked them for a great deal of money to make an event for people in there and sent them to another report of this House. This thing can't go on. We had also gone with Mr Tragakis to have a consultation so that I could know what names - we will see how - come under 'ownership'. Put it in a lot of quotes. That's not the point. He's not a personal owner here. Under control, under the control, under the synergy, say, of the parliament. Benacio Library will be built from behind the building. It has already been decided. There are plans. They can enter workshops in 2016 and the cost is 11 million euros. It's gonna be a jewel. If we have the front building, it will be the point of reference in the center of Athens. The region, the municipality, etc. should also be interested. We've got more of this business in front of us. This means, therefore, that there must be no further unlimited pressure on the budget under the name 'you who are cutting wages, pensions, allowances, you have no right to the House to operate, to develop, to open up to society', etc. It's not like that. We are very clear. The House can't be cheap. The House must, however, be absolutely on the average - and below the average - of what is happening today in Greek society. I do not want to go far further and to refer to other issues of Parliament's operation that are of importance and have been identified today. For example, when we discuss Part I, we will all bring our experience - beyond the three points that change from now - for changes that can be made to the House. It can also be that the response to Parliamentary Control from 50% and something that is now and for the whole year goes to 70%. And you have to. And that's not an ethical issue or a government-to-day pressure. We have to find the ways - we have also said at the Conference of Presidents - perhaps to return partly to the regime of those days for the Ministries - I, for example, was at my disposal when I was coming as Minister of the Interior - so that questions can be put together now and answered. It is an issue that needs to be improved. There should also be an improvement in an area where the situation is clearly better because of the Prime Minister's response to the past, namely in the pre-dated debate, in the case of laws tabled by other parties, in the introduction of proposals for committees of inquiry submitted by other parties or the presence of the Prime Minister more frequently in the on-site questions on Friday. It wasn't two, it was four so far. However, I would like to point out that in this area in relation to previous situations the distance is awkward in favour of this House, but it is not satisfactory. What remains as a serious issue and a problem and I would like to see it known and seen - it is a question of the government first and foremost and to a serious extent and we have pointed it out very rigorously - is the best legislature on the bills. There's something there that we can hardly touch. And I've been publicly mentioned in this. In other words, with regard to what comes through the debates and the evaluation negotiations and which sometimes end at 4,00' in the morning in Hilton, 6,30' in Brussels, 8,30' in Brussels, and they are translated at 10 a.m. - but that is not the case - it cannot be otherwise - that, as we understand it, sets certain limits that we have not accepted psychologically, but we have accepted them as a function and are a problem. We know, we know. Previously, I told you about Cosco's coming and it will be voted on within the week. It's not right to legislate this thing. We're fully aware. We know. We hope this cycle will close quickly for the country, etc. And we're doing everything we can. But there is another side that we have a responsibility for. There is a responsibility and it should not be improved, but it should be changed irresponsibly. This is about the fact that several ministries are not planning the legislative intervention of the quarter, the semester of the year, so that the material can be collected to bring the ministries' bills to the test, even as a multi-legislative plan, but with a coherent plan not to be an arsenal - but rather the method is preferable - because at times it has come to be a method - of the amendments. In other words, in bills relating to or irrelevant - that is now a detail, but it is a crucial issue under the Constitution - to come multi-page mini-projects from various ministries. And that often happens very often. So this is a very serious matter. It has been put to the government with all the strong tone. There is no point in this. It is of no importance to say whether this had been done and how many times in the past or how many times things had happened in the past. It is one of the things that needs to be corrected as a normality, that is to say, to have a normality in this way of legislating against these major amendments. I am not talking about photographics, post-mortem nights that were the philology of the previous phase or even a little of the present one. It is another thing which can and must be avoided by the charge of all of us. You understand what I am talking about. So this is an open issue which should concern us and overcome because it is really problematic. There is no problem with legislative acts, ladies and gentlemen. At the present time of the House, there were only two, which were held at Christmas for specific time-limits for allowances for 31 December. For the previous period, the first government of SYRIZA - ANEL, that is, for the first phase, there were indeed ten, twelve. The number thirty-four mentioned earlier by the rapporteur for Officerial Reconciliation was about the different themes that existed in the legislative acts. It was ten to twelve - I know them one by one - and they were related to the needs of that period and to the course of negotiation at the time, which obviously there are objections between the parties. I may have considered them perfectly reasonable because most of them were referring to how to deal with the refugee tsunami. On the other hand, there is the view and perception that another design should have been or should have been planned. I'll take it. But it's about that period. I repeat that for the period under discussion, for the nine months, it would be desirable to have no legislative instrument, but we are talking about two. So I also wanted today's speech to restore a number of issues to which there are objections in relation to the objections raised by the rapporteur for the Staff Regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, why did I get long? I repeat that I think it is a good day for the House and a good start that we can do on these issues. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[At this point, the President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, presents for the Minutes referred to above a number of legislative improvements, which reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] “ Let the pl. 119’)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u45	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u46	Please, what do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u47	I would like the floor as a parliamentary representative when you consider that I can speak. I'm not urgent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Davakis, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u49	I've asked him before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u50	Parliament's representatives now want the floor. Will you all talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u51	I don't know if other colleagues want to talk. I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u52	I see they want to talk. The appetite opens. I'll start with the speaker. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u53	Five or seven minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u54	Five of them are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u55	Madam President, I have listened carefully to the President of this House. Of course, before I heard him, I asked for the floor to be put on a number of key issues, of which the President raised two as omissions. And I think this House and this House should - and, unfortunately, the House is not here for something that concerns it, and we are apologiseing for it - to take a stand. The first - something that the President of this House should not have mentioned, as he should have, is the undermining of this in itself of the operation of this House, as well as of legislative work - see amendments, small bills - and parliamentary control, with the discredit of the ministers coming to answer to my fellow Members. The House, as we all know, is not a pediatrician of the government, whenever the government convene it. The House is an independent foundation of democracy, which must above all respect the government, the governing party and defend it by the President of Parliament. I have not felt, despite almost twenty-three years of being in this Chamber, that we have a great deal of support for the honourable Members who are not present from the President of Parliament. I would like the voice, Mr President, to be more sceptical in defending the members of whom you are chairing. And it is something that should be put in a bigger position, I would say, intensity and seriousness. On the three, four issues which the President has raised and which the President says are an incision, a choice of policy, etc., I would like to say that there has been something very serious here, namely that there are buildings - and there are - of the House which are orphans whose legal status is clear. The Metropolitan Building belongs to the Public Building Company and more. It is therefore recommended, Mr President, that the Legal Support Department - so I understood it - with new positions, etc., which will help to find the legal position of these property. The already existing Parliamentary Legal Service on the markets of these real estates, what position did it take? Did he have a workload? It clearly had a workload, because the Legal Service of the Parliament is a selective part of the House, its general administrative structure, of the ordinary officials whose adequacy, willingness, is enormous in helping Members. But, in any case, I would like to have the view of the Legal Service of the House on what the President said a moment ago that large buildings in this House do not have a specific identity. They do not belong to anyone, in short, even though they have been purchased with money from the Greek Parliament. As far as the Strategic Planning Unit is concerned, the President said that an intervention is taking place, I would say a bypass, the existing problems, in order to provide some solutions, based on the certification of the Services and economics. I think that these are a little salmonisms, but, in any case, everything will prove to be the result. The Special Theme Secretary reminds me of the Special Theme Director we have in our districts. I do not think we need other officials or other institutions in this Chamber and with these functions. You have a parliamentary secretary, you have a special secretary, who, as far as I know, is an official of the House, and you are setting up a new official of the House, a special thematic secretary. What will they do before, Mr President? Do they have that kind of workload? And what will the Central Office of Parliament do, anyway? It was also reported that there would be a coordinator on the Parliament's channel for a three-year term. Personally, I would like to say that I believe that Parliament's channel does not have to exist. I think it could well, with a small number of Members of this House, be part of the ERT which you have reconstituted. This is how it happens in modern states. I think that Parliament's channel, with the relay of Parliament's work, could be a member of the national channel, the ERT. In any case, that is my personal view. But what further will the Special Coordinator do? I have asked - I have no personal complaint, but I imagine what will happen on other occasions - that the channel of the House should deal with an interview with a spiritual person in our country, who spent the hundredth year of his age, and get him an interview. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end in a few seconds, Madam President. Let the MPs also speak. Unfortunately, it has become impossible. For one year, you've been incapacitated. Of course, that person proved to the Lord. He'll see us from above. But imagine some people quietly, modest, who tried to dedicate the letters and did not deal with publicity when we tried to show them, for reasons of principle, the channel of this House and that became impossible. In any case, all this will be good today for gymnastics, nutritionists and gymnasts - where, of course, we are invited in our regions to answer why we MEPs are going to gymnasiums, as if we had so much time to go to gyms, other kinds of runs we have - to respond in particular, Mr President, from the means that they often plunder, rather than silence, that you hire so many people here, so many there and others. It would be good for us to defend ourselves, against the unscrupulous monster of populism, ourselves with the truth, with the authority of Parliament and, in any case, not with such arrangements, which are out of the basic arrangements that should exist, such as the question of the absence of Ministers from the honourable Members. I'm hanging up with this. Mr President, there must be sanctions against the ministers who do not come to reply to the House, thereby despising the National Representation. And if you tell me, as you said before, that this has happened in the past, I will tell you that any election campaigns cleanse the scenery and start at an empty table the new period. Don't keep invoking the story. Don't be historical. Look at what you are doing from now on, which, unfortunately, you are making progress on the issue of parliamentary control and decency which the ministers themselves have shown to Parliament. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Theonas, would you like to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u57	Let someone else speak first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u58	From New Democracy, Mr. Dendias is not here. We're continuing with Mr. Pappa. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u59	Madam President, we are first on the debate. I would like to address a matter of topical and urgent importance to the Greek people. We are here today, one year after the capital controls, one year after the Greek people's proud 'no' on 5 July 2015 and a few weeks after the formalisation, through the Parliament, of the occupation of our country for ninety years. We therefore address the Greek people and say: Golden Dawn welcomes the courageous decision of British citizens to say 'no' to Brussels' to say 'no' to German oligarchy, which levels people with austerity policies, which has trampled our national independence, which promotes illegal immigration, which imposes quotas even on the agricultural products we produce and does not allow us to establish strong links with the great power, with the united power, called Russia. The immediate political consequence of Brexit is the giantization of European patriotic and nationalist forces, with the pioneer of the Golden Dawn movement, which, in a Greece betrayed, in a Greece that is given wealth to foreign loan sharks, is the only force of resistance, the only power fighting for national independence. Golden Dawn has taken a stand in favour of the nations - states, noting that the way the European Union is now operating is an unhappiness for European citizens. The European Union has imposed austerity policies which have led thousands of our compatriots to suicide. It promotes illegal immigration and the globalisation plan, with the ultimate aim of dismantling nations - states. However, the result of the referendum is a victory for nationalism towards a European Union that is a German-government and which ultimately fights the nations - states. Finally, the position of Golden Dawn is the holding of a referendum on Greece's stay in the euro area. But at this point it is worth considering the political stance of the neoliberal SYRIZA on this issue. Mr Tsipras, speaking on Saturday at the SYRIZA Central Committee, said that it is absolutely respectable for the British people's decision, referring to Brexit and the referendum in Britain. Not one of those who were below found the courage to ask for self-evident: why is the British vote completely respected and was the verdict of the Greek people not respected a year ago, on 5 July, when he said 'no' to the extortion of national loan sharks? The Greek people under very difficult conditions, capital controls, closed banks, delays and reductions in pensions, wages, unemployment, psychological attack, in particular, propaganda and terroristism from the "mediums of mass deception", rejected the third memorandum, which, in a week's time, Mr. Tsipras was completely integrated, in exchange for his stay in power. SYRIZA sold the "no" of the Greek people by concise procedures and now says he respects the "no" of the British. Finally, the service of the closest and humble conservative interests for SYRIZA entails costs for the Greek people. This is the only red line for SYRIZA. As for the New Democracy? Clear as to his ethnicist conception by a cosmopolitan side, the current Chief of the New Democracy, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, reiterated his conviction of the separation of a state - Church at his recent meeting with Alexis Tsipras. We read features in the Sunday ‘REAL NEWS’: ‘The President of New Democracy is also alleged to warn the Prime Minister that establishing simple proportionality can lead to fragmentation of parties’. It also accepted the existence of a channel of communication between the two men. "I am not against the existence of a communication channel," he allegedly told Alexis Tsipras, to whom he proposed consensus in the constitutional review. "Let me agree to the inclusion of Article 3 in the Review...", i.e. the separation of a state-Church, "and you, Tsipras, in Article 16", that is to say to the private universities. Anyone who takes the majority in the elections, has the initiative to change them, that is to say, to be a stake in the elections and the constitutional review. What we see from the deal, from the agreement proposed by Mr.Mitsotakis, is that he has no problem consenting to the separation of the Church-State, which sedations the foundation stone of the modern Greek state, as long as he becomes his own favour, with the establishment of private universities. So in order to serve neoliberal plans in the field of education, it does not hesitate to comply with the dark pursuits of the other nationalists, the natives with left-hand identities, who want to get rid of Orthodoxy as a component of the Greek nation. Of course, Mr Mitsotakis' attitude does not surprise us at all. Liberalism is also anti-national, having a certain cosmopolitan perception of the nation's sacred and loyal ones. These new revelations of Mitsotakis are another resounding slap in the face of those journalists - "pads" of the New Democracy, who, with vile and cheap arguments, try to propaganda in favour of the New Democracy and against the Golden Dawn. These sad 'nationalists' are doing everything they can. However, Mr Mitsotakis himself takes care to expose them irreparably with his actions. Mr Mitsotakis, with his words from time to time, confirms that he is in constant war with nationalism and Greece and seeks his neoliberal, cosmopolitan degradation. Do not dare the patriots of neoliberalism to put back in their mouths the sacred trifle found at the core of national ideology, the "father - religion - family". Ladies and gentlemen, nationalism, in addition to electoral victories, is moving fast on the path of his ideological right. The repeated victories of the Golden Dawn, the 'no' of the Greeks of last summer and Brexit, the rise of the patriotic parties throughout Europe, are steps in this direction. Nationalism is the only supporter of the welfare state, the European worker and his rights, the motherhood and the family, the security and the freedom of the people. The dictatorial train of the proletariat, which would liberate the people, will not pass again, contrary to the new dictatorship established by the new order of globalisation, which makes proletarians all the citizens, even those who think that their financial comfort maintains in the unavoidable, opening a new circle of class struggles to its communist partner. Peoples have learned their lessons. The nationalists are the only ones who have solutions, we are the only ones who are not afraid to say them openly, despite the mechanics and threats, despite the magicians and the prophets. The future, gentlemen, belongs to the European nations. Together with Greeks and Europeans who are ideologically liberated by tyranny Left and Right, hope and desire for freedom is increased. The desire for freedom is growing along with the oppression of the European Union's cardboard system. European patriots must join together in the face of the globalisation policies that will determine our struggle and future. As far as our vote on the Rules of Procedure is concerned, our rapporteur, Member of the European Parliament, was well placed. I repeat that we do not consent to your plans for a regulation which you do not respect and which you do not respect, a regulation which, with legal tricks, introduces articles such as the one with which you legalise and make even easier the procedure of the urgent bill and which you would gladly bypass, as you would bypass Parliament itself, for the sake of your creditors. Somebody will ask: After you cut off and sew the procedures according to your Memorandum of Understandings, gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANELs, why do you not govern directly - in essence that - by means of presidential decrees, saving Parliament's costs? You will save Parliament's costs in this way. Gentlemen of coexistence, you have lost the true declared, the declared one to the Greek people. To know the Greek people today about the absence of at least the Prime Minister, because most of the Members are missing, almost all of them. The Greek Prime Minister is currently giving his credentials to the sovereign new master, the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schultz. The time when we are talking about the Rules of Procedure of the House, the Prime Minister is doing tennis in Schultz. In the time when we speak of all these nice, how many natural therapists, how many dietists, how many secretaries and phantoms will come in and be appointed - you will appoint - that is, - cosmo-historic changes. And you, the lords of the conflict, are ostracized and misled by the Greek people. The representative of the New Democracy has tried to convince us that the House is not accurate. Unfortunately, despite all his parliamentary experience, he is not accurate. Because the Mr of the New Democracy has not dared to mention how many millions of euros from the fall of the Greek people the New Democracy owes. What's the cost of the big party rodents? For example, what is the cost of the advisors of Antonis Samaras, Stavros Papastavrou and not just? And, in the end, what is the cost to our country and the Greek people of their anti-national and anti-popular votes in the nationally proprietary memoirs? Even the third memorandum - the poorly called left memorandum - went through with the votes of the New Democracy. Even the articles of the implementing laws, which we discussed a few weeks ago, were adopted by New Democracy by 60%. So let no theatrical opposition be held by the ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, because their role is now known. The best way to support SYRIZA is to stand alongside Mr. Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to repeat and make you aware of the truth, the reality that the Greek people know, and you are stubbornly doing what you do not believe. The Golden Dawn came not just to stay, but to expand and win. And because ideas are superior to any temporary conditions, from cells and bullets, neither illicit persecution and imprisonment nor male murders can stop a movement pulled out of the racing traditions of an entire nation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u60	Mr Loverdos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, it is today's birthday, the anniversary of the Capital Controls. And we have a great deal to say about this government, which has kept the Greek people with this very negative development. But I'll see you this afternoon. Today there is no government here. Today we are in a parliamentary procedure, and let us look at the modification of a specific chapter in the Rules of Procedure. However, in his long speech the President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, made two, three more general references to the relationship between parliament and government, and before I said two, three thoughts on the Rules of Procedure and its revision, I would like to make a comment on them. I do not have experience, as they have previously been, but also from my experience, to conclude that we have been living, for a year and a half, in the worst relations between Parliament and the government. Because the government does what it wants. I am not saying that there must be opposition from a parliament - government. That would lead to great instability in the country. There must be harmonisation of the functioning of the Government with the functioning of the House. Because the government, if anything, has, in addition to what the Constitution provides for, and the competence of the legislative initiative by the Constitution. So relations must be smooth, they must be harmonized. But not for the government to consider its Chamber of Deputies to do what it wants to do, to violate the Rules of Procedure whenever and as much as it likes, to be misled by Parliament. You are President, Madam President, of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. Do you know that in mid-June 2015 the Committee on Institutions and Transparency did not give a favourable opinion on the President and First Vice-President of RAE, the Regulatory Authority for Energy, and the Ministry with its leadership then appointed them? Do you know that we have addressed the President of this House, and instead the current leadership of the Ministry of the Environment and other matters has answered us, saying that he has well appointed them, because the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency has, as we are all aware, appreciated by a Member who has voted 'at present'? This has never happened before, namely that the House expresses an opinion that is unsatisfactory to a candidate and that the government appoints him, contemptuous of the House. And are we talking about improving parliamentary-Government relations? This is the seal of where relations between Parliament and government are today. The government ignores the House and does whatever it wants. That is not what we live every day, every week, with the sanctions for contracts, which are subject to amendments in violation of the Rules of Procedure, and the operation of this House by the guilty parties. Is this not the way the competent Standing Committee is avoided? Does this not prevent plenary and the debate on the amendments? Is it not the CEN, the Central Legislative Committee? Is this not the way to avoid the Department of Scientific Studies in the House? All of this is avoided, all the institutional guarantees of good technical legislation - substance and constitutionalities are another issue - the conditions of good legislature are despised in this way. To leave the amendments which come and are very large, on matters such as, I think, seven afternoons in the context of a directive. In order to be clear and specific and to know exactly what we are talking about. They are the worst relations between Parliament and the government, because there may be a good position of the Bureau in relation to avoiding parliamentary control by ministers, but there is no substantial effect. The aim is today, from what the President of Parliament has said, to speak more generally. Nor is the Prime Minister, Madam President, coming to answer the current questions. There are questions tabled ten, twelve, fourteen times in a world manner, not to exploit the position of Prime Minister here, and the Prime Minister is not coming. Let me remind you - because the President of Parliament said that it was better - to colleagues in SYRIZA, when was the hardest speeches by Mr Constantopoulos? When Mr. Simitis came to answer him. When were Mr Alavanos' hardest interventions? When Mr Karamanlis came to answer him. I remember that. When was Mr. Tsipras, the split-up party with DIMAR, a small party on the left? When Mr. Papandreou came. We remember these things. We have not lost a recent parliamentary memory in order to come and tell us what the President of Parliament has told us today. As far as parliamentary control is concerned, there is an unprecedented contempt for the House, because one minister may not be able to do so, it may be in Brussels or elsewhere, but on the pretext the ministers have State Secretarys. The Ministries have Ministers and State Secretarys. The Undersecretary may not handle the file, but has general information. The Government is obliged, within the framework of collective political responsibility, to take the cause of the State Secretary or Deputy Minister. Nor can we, if we do one or two exceptions, which we have praised. And I pray here to tell you about Mr Alexiadis. Otherwise, we have Mr. Stathakis, with three Undersecretaries, who never runs. You have to beg for this ministry to answer questions simple or timely, which any Secretary of State can answer. What are the Undersecretaries? They're members of the government. They may not be members of the Ministerial Council, but they are members of the Government and they are presumed to know exactly what is happening to their Ministry or can be informed of the needs of a question. Now, if they were to tell me to give the floor to the intervention of today's change in the Rules of Procedure, I would say that it is the institutional framework for the recruitment of "days". That is what I would say and I would base my intervention on what he said in both the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and, just before plenary, our special speaker, Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou, said. A characteristic phrase by the committee, when he said: 'Well, subcommittees, committees and so on'. That's what this is about. We're negative. I think that my colleague has expressed himself. We are in principle negative. I want to make two, three points, and I want to close them. I have not understood - and I have spoken with my colleague, Mr Papatheodorou, I have not understood - that we have not understood - what is the Secretary-General. While there is the Secretary-General of Parliament and the Special Secretary of Parliament, what is the Thematic Secretary-General, except for an intake "the next"? Do what? Does he pay the Secretary-General back? What's the expert doing? That's not good. These approaches are wrong. Do I have a problem? I'm creating a position or, more seriously, an agency. And as I say for Service, what is the Parliament's Legal Service set up? I feel it and understand it as contempt, firstly, the Legal Council of the State and secondly, the Directorate for Scientific Studies. He says: "But they will do specific work, they will carry out a specific project, which is related to ad hoc topics, the enclosure". Well, the booklet may require the assistance of some legal for ten months. Why would we have services here, I see that the chief will be in charge for three years, with terms of terms? What's this? What the oldest in public administration is done by the ministers and because they like it - for the majority - brings it to Parliament for SYRIZA to do so. And with the same logic, what is the coordinator of the media in the House? Now, we know who's doing this. He wants to hire. It does not have in mind the more flexible, the more rational functioning of the Parliamentary Service, but to open up positions to get posted. That is what this is all about and it is not a crime to confess, saying that the House needs employees, to get some more. Ask people out, ask citizens, do they have the same impression? The mistakes of the past are known and have caused the menstruation of the world. Are you here to repeat them, or to make them worse? In conclusion, the majority of this House has made a very big mistake, ignoring experiences of decades of public administration and administration in general, so that I do not rule out Parliament's issues. Faced with the existing problem or the new problem being created is old-fashioned, it is destructive, costly, administratively unacceptable and certainly inadequate to establish Services. Do I have a problem with consumption? General Secretariat of the Consumers. Has there ever been an appreciation of what the general secretariats offer? Has there ever been an appreciation for what the Parliamentary Services offer? How do you establish a new one? What's the targeting? There are no serious thoughts in the old argument of the 1980s, perhaps before, I have a problem, I create administration. I have a problem. Do I have any doubts? I'm making guarantees. What proved to be the case? Anything that adds bureaucracy, adds costs and adds grey zone, which, in order to overcome it, people must move in, which are not permanently or is not serious or is not decent. However, because we are talking about Parliament and not about public administration in general, let us keep, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, these arguments and your future speeches. You will vote today and you will pass this. However, we shall also be following you as far as the future is concerned, do not come back with this kind of logic. You are not helping either the operation of the House or yourself. When, Madam President, I close with that thought, people leave you, no matter how many you have appointed, you do not give yourself a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u62	Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, has the floor. Mr. Paphie, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u63	Our rapporteur, George Lambroulis, and I would just like to repeat a number of points, and the reasons, which do not allow us to vote for the amendment of the Rules of Procedure with everything that is positive or negative, in any case. As far as the first part is concerned, for the Vice-President and the letter of vote, we were placed and said that we agreed. But the question of abbreviating the procedures in the emergencies has two sides and, in our view, the latter is getting worse. The first aspect is that we do not have time to discuss matters that have been raised by others. The second is that such a sudden process is actually happening many times - not to say the most and not just now, but also all the previous years - so that it does not have time to answer the people and the labour movement itself and to organise it. Even in anti-grass laws and tough laws all the years, such procedures were followed, not always, but such procedures were followed. In other words, when it comes out one day and two days is over, of course, we cannot organise a mobilisation by the trade unions, by the mass organizations as a whole so well and nor can the Greek people be informed, although now things have escaped from every limit of anti-popularity as a whole. The second part concerns the second part. What's the matter with us? We have some positions of principle. First theme: We're talking about adapting staff to the new payroll, rating, and all the rest. We are opposed. We have voted against all these bills and we could never agree to vote in favour of this House as well. That is not the point of asking for the services of this House to be excluded. I'll say it later. On the contrary, it is not possible to agree with such things, which have the consequences, which George Lambroulis has described. The second equally important, and very important, is the issue of industrial relations, because everything relating to the dismantling of labour relations is now being implemented in the House, as well as the various forms of employment and everything else. We, unlike others - not to say to everyone -, when the eruption of labour relations began after the 1990s and accelerated after 2000, were opposed to all these bills and we are fighting for permanent, stable working with hours, with collective agreements, with whatever we are - capitalism - and it is not possible to agree on labour relations, which are, of course, everywhere - a jungle of capitalist - and now also apply to the House. Of course, the government, the majority, can say that it is done differently. I would like to make that clear. We do not ask that the officials of this House be excluded from everyone else, but we are radically opposed to all, that is to say, all this disgracefulness of whatever rights the workers have had. And from this point of view, we cannot vote. Some articles will be voted on. In other words, we shall vote 'the present'. But we will vote against them. And because we are not going to talk again, we are going to make it clear that, even to someone who might agree, when matters of this kind, of industrial relations and evaluation and so on, we will be voting in this sense, because we cannot explain in an article - because we would like many hours - which we agree and where we disagree. Let's say, with the cleaners, it's positive that the contractors are leaving because we know what's going on. We're talking about clean trade, about exploitation of a robbery, not to use any other expression. I don't know if it was happening here because I have no examples, but we knew what was happening in general, they sign up for 500 euros and they take 300 euros, and nobody dares to say anything, because they will be kicked out the next day. However, we cannot agree as a party with the individual contracts, which we have voted against, which we denounce. And we're fighting for collective bargaining. The government says it can't do any different. But we cannot agree on that. Finally, for this rise in fascism that is head-on - and, of course, the results in Britain and elsewhere are not charged to them, the great popular discontent is expressed, of course, and there are also such aspects of anti-prisoning - they have contributed to all those who supported the European Union, which started a terrible anti-communism, an equation of fascism - communism, especially after 1990 - has always been that way - and they have completely cleaned up, until they gave pensions to war criminals, fascists, and recognized them as anti-Russian, and many other things, beyond, of course, the economic conditions that have been created. There are huge responsibilities for this, for all the political forces that have in one way or another supported this policy. Of course they are also the deadlocks of the crisis. However, we say again, for those who listen to us and may be taken away from the so-called philosophical rhetoric of the Golden Dawn and other fascists, that fascism is a genuine child of capitalism, not even an illusion. It's the most aggressive form of capital power. It has also been used historically, with a classic example of Germany. Industrialists and bankers gave Hitler power with the tolerance of social democracy and others who refused any proposals made by the communist movement at that time. They gave authority because they believed Hitler could conduct the war better and victoriously to regain the lost markets they had lost in the previous period. Let me say one more thing. The fascism he had in World War II will have the same fate. And this time, in our opinion, we will do everything here and in all the countries of the world, where we can, it will not be time to do the damage it has done in previous years, no matter how much they seek to use as a reserve or, if you like, as a head of the spear, the interests of great capital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u64	The President of Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u65	I just need two minutes, Madam President. I would like to give two clarifications. In relation to the issue of the Vice-Presidents of the House, I have failed to say beforehand that the Rules cannot change at its core in relation to the formation of the Bureau of Parliament, at this stage we are. That is why, let me tell you, it is perhaps emblematic, to prove as such, going towards the next phase, that is, an empty position that has been left, to include, to fill from the first next party. In my opinion, this should be written in the Minutes and we should be in charge of this, because I believe that there will be a system of simple proportional, relevant articles in the Rules of Procedure for the next elections or for any elections. But then they must be matched by the number of parties or by the number of persons needed to meet Bureau positions and to carry out the procedure. That is to say, it is not a question that is being dealt with now or should be dealt with now, namely, that the core of this statute should be changed, for example, by the first party, in particular, by the Democratisation and so on. However, it is certainly an open matter to be more elected members and to all types, I mean more than ten Members, etc., who are involved in pre-daily discussions, and so on. To have a representative in the Bureau will be something that should be addressed at the next stage or at that stage, in any case, which could be a broader amendment. I would mention this because some thoughts have been expressed in the debate that has been held in committee on the part of parties, which are not represented in the Bureau today, on the basis of the completion we are now doing. The second thing I want to talk about, because it is right to have a dialogue on a crucial issue that has seen and with insistence the light of publicity in the last few days, has something to do with appointments and so on. I explained in detail why and how we have now reached the point where we are compiling a situation and closing the gray areas, which existed and allowed many appointments, which were not for the services concerned, but were then dispersed throughout Bui. I am sorry that the Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Incorporation, who is also an old parliamentarian, is also a key member of the governments of one of the two parties all over the republics who were responsible for the country's governance, spoke on this issue as if there were no obvious need for repair and institutional transparency in such a situation, so that there is no scope for such inappropriate or complex appointments, but also for other such situations. He referred to this issue, I guess he took it around - around, as if it had nothing to do with it, as if it hadn't happened. I have given very specific information which, if requested, will also be repeated by periods of Parliament and by number of officials and by service to the service of how many have entered and for what reasons. This does not concern the present government or this Bureau of Parliament at all. Today we are lifting a helmet to cover absolutely - and I repeat it for the third time, I regret that such a speech has been used - the extremely positive institutional steps taken in the House that are preventing these situations, namely appointments either from the window or otherwise from being worthy or of usefulness. The number of employees in the House is identical or less than the one who was 15 months ago. So I challenge that. Mr Papatheodorou, we have taken note of you for a week all the relevant file and the evidence. To continue - not you - in terms of your prolongation through Mr Loverdos to bring back and warm up this issue, I fear that it has to do with a poorly-quality communication policy use on elements which do not have any question and for which we do not even accept a fly in our sword. And if this goes on, it will go to as deep as it takes both time and people and responsibilities. There's no such matter. We assured you. I was detailed because they need specific support in specific sectors, precisely so that the House can do the work we are discussing. As there will no longer be any specific regulations and special appointments and the procedure for hearing by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, in relation to coordinators or anything else that has been mentioned, there is no such matter. To create impressions, when there is no issue, I believe that it does not make it easier to change the Rules of Procedure at all. I would expect far greater political enthusiasm and not absolute micropsy on a crucial issue on which our people are indeed extremely sensitive. Because there is, literally, a bowling in the public space against the employees in this House for special privileges, special salaries, special positions, for a client state, for customer relations, for relatives and others. He did not, possibly, listen to Mr. Loverdus all my long speech, as he pointed out. It can be twice as long on this issue, and as long as it is necessary, to see each party - and this concerns you - how many employees in this House are concerned. That is why I am telling you, come in contact with the relevant dossier as long as it is time to study the evidence. I would very much ask that this propaganda, which is against the Government and against the Bureau of Parliament, should be stopped, as I can see it, because we have a political rivalry here - but it acts in the medium and medium term is against Parliament and democracy and as such I do not accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u66	Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u67	What do you want, Mr. Papatheodorou?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u68	Answer the President. I've asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u69	Do you want to be second? Parliamentary representatives have not finished. Wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u70	I would like to reply because the President has mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u71	No, then in your dentistry. We must not give any room for tension now. I'll give you the floor right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u72	Now, Madam President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u73	Sit down and finish the circle of parliamentary representatives. Don't worry, the flow won't stop. Mr. Theonas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u74	Because he also referred to our parliamentary representative, I would like to speak on behalf of our staff. It's not a dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Theonas, do you want ten minutes too?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u76	Madam President, it's personal. You must give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u77	Do you think it's personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u78	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u79	How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u80	At least, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u81	You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u82	First of all, Mr President, because you referred to... I would like you, Mr President, to listen to me when you are finished. Madam President, keep my time, please and thank you. Mr President, if I may draw your attention to two things that you have said. The first is that the file has been put in my mind. No, you told me the file was up. And if he is ready, of course, and I will come to the committee because I have asked, apart from these positions which I have asked you to tell us how many he is, that the services of this House tell us what they are curing, so that we can compare to the rationalisation of the positions of this House. Secondly, because you had told the committee when there was no publicity, we could make it clear, Mr President. Mr. Loverdos said so today. Have there been bad past practices? There were. We invite you not to repeat them. First of all, that. Secondly, I am not here personally to do the census of the past and I will not do it and I do not care to do so. And, if you wish, reminders that we can talk about many years, previous and long periods and all positions, do not concern me personally and do not concern me politically in particular, for a very simple reason. That we can say anything. What we are considering, Mr President, is what we are discussing today, the Rules of Procedure for the future. From there on, I think that, as I have done, we must safeguard what you said before, the authority of the House. But that doesn't have to do with cover-ups. If there were either arrhythmias or bad choices, stop them. But everyone. Secondly, it is important with regard to the reaction, which was also in relation to what Mr Loverd also said and I had said. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Once the Government and the Bureau of Parliament today declare that they want to change this page, they will change it in terms which are transparent terms on the one hand and they will accept control as well. I'm not making setbacks. Personally, I do not care about the setbacks. Politically, I do not care about the setbacks. So such recollections, Mr President, I simply do not accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u83	Madam President, please, may I have the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u84	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u85	We're not talking on personal grounds, obviously. We are talking about the substance, to clarify a number of issues. I would not object to any of the parties - both SYRIZA and all the parties - on the proposed Rules of Procedure and the new arrangements and modalities that are being made, that there should be all the possible suggestions that can be closed down - and for now also for the future - and for 'doors' and 'doors' and problems, provided that we recognise that this very great effort is being made and that it is essential in relation to the past. Let me say that the representatives of a party - I repeat with the historical information we have here, of course, the PASOK party - may not today be responsible for anything that has been happening since yesterday morning or a year ago, but they must first recognise that there are very basic areas to change a post, which had opened up such problems. In other words, when this is not recognized - and that is why I made this intervention, Mr Papatheodorou, otherwise I had no problem with the others - when there is no question that the special regulations, with which the President - in this case now, I - could make any appointments and any remuneration...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u86	We have agreed to the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u87	You have agreed to the committee. I am sorry, however, that the parliamentary representative speaks here, and he says that the Rules of Procedure are coming to form a new framework for a party state and nominations from the current Bureau of Parliament. Please! I understand very well what you said. And because on the same canvas for fifteen days - and I do not blame any responsibility or relationships of interlocutory - approved or less-approved newspapers working on this scene, this will be cleared up. It'll be clear whatever we have to say. This was and has nothing to do with collective responsibilities, past and other. I should also like to say to you, in order to consider this as a party - the other parties have obviously considered it and do not raise this issue - if it is raised today - because this morning in an approved newspaper, it was predicted that this issue will be raised in today's debate in Parliament - so that there is not this special overtime allowance, which is all that has remained on the basis of Parliament's economic autonomy during the Constitution, on the basis of how the House operates, for all the officials and employees in Parliament to the Secretary-General, please submit the proposal here. Otherwise, you must conclude with us that it is legal and it is right and must remain rather than let me or officials or all the workers ahead - let us say - of leaks made in the press - not to you, to God - that a privileged regime is being built here, against officials in this House, which I repeat reaches the limits of the bowling, which is being carried out by forces that have been ruling this place for decades.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u88	Madam President, may I speak for thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u89	Now is that possible? Answer what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u90	If you'll excuse me, we'll solve this right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u91	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much. Mr President, for the overtime of employees, neither I have spoken to anyone else. Why do you put it? No one has spoken of the overtime of employees. Now, if you want to talk about the difference between the Secretary-General, the Special Secretary-General or any other Secretary-General of the Parliament in relation to the other Secretary-General, you have put it. I don't intend to at least answer here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Theonas has the floor. Mr. Theonas, try to speak less than ten minutes. We've exceeded every limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u94	I will speak as much as possible, but you will allow me to observe this: instead of congratulating those who are taking this speech at the moment on the bravery that had to promote changes in the Rules of Procedure that rationalize it and at the same time abolishing a reality that existed for years whole, we have found the opportunity. He never misses the chance of Andrew Loverdos. He didn't talk about the Rules of Procedure. He talked about what SYRIZA does, what the party does, what they do, what others do. I think that today we should congratulate Nikos Voutsi on these initiatives which he has taken in connection with the Rules of Procedure and which I consider to be extremely important and, above all, democratic, with all the importance of the word. In the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but also in plenary, there has been a huge issue of setting up a theme Secretary-General. It's been a matter of specific comrades. There's no point in saying their names. In fact, the issue - or rather the pretext - was that they were interested in why this Thematic Secretary should not be from staff. I think - and I am saying this - that it is not the main issue and the most interesting thing whether it will be from staff or not. The most interesting is what action the theme Secretary will take and what responsibilities he will have. We have heard that at the moment, even today, the House uses real estate and pays, finances these properties so that they can be fully operational, without the House itself knowing whether or not it owns them. Is it not necessary for a person - who will be the Thematic Secretary - to check and there he will be judged whether or not he does his job properly and whether he has a role to play? Shouldn't we, like, take over, be charged, identify all these issues connected with property, real estate, institutions and so on? I think we are hiding behind our finger because we need to make good criticism of the government even when it takes a proper, legitimate and democratic initiative. The second point I would like to make is about Parliament's channel. Many proposals were put forward in committee, but today the Committee on the Rules of Procedure must check the channel programme. But is that possible? So, we're going to check the programme of a television medium? Is it possible for that programme to be checked by a committee? Another thing that is being proposed. Here I think that the legislative improvement submitted to us by Mr. Nikos Voutsissis gives a comprehensive solution, that every six months - if we want to make it three months, make it three months - the coordinator of the channel should inform the Parliament's Committee on the Rules of Procedure of what activity the channel has developed, what measures he has taken, what results his action has taken, how it has been judged by his viewers and what conclusions the committee will draw from them and give an opinion on how the channel should develop its action further, not the employer of the channel who will define and the programme to be presented to the people. In the time that I still have to take note of the importance of this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, because the incorporation of the special regulations into Part II of the Rules of Procedure of the House is very honoured - I would like to note this - by Mr Voutsi. I have personal experience in this matter. In 2009, SYRIZA happened to have a parliamentary group that originally were thirteen members and on some course nine were left. I wasn't a congressman. Nevertheless, my party has taken care of me and made me be a coordinator of the parliamentary group. I've been looking for three years to find Part II of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I couldn't find it for nothing. It was a seven-sealed secret.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u95	You weren't diligent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u96	I wasn't diligent, obviously. I had to come to you, Mr. Tragakis. Probably!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u97	Wherever you went, you'd find it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u98	I didn't find it, though. I was looking for it, and I didn't find it, because I was told it wasn't published.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u99	Anyway, I didn't mean to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u100	I never use a lie to justify something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u101	Madam President, you have to manage the situation a little. It's not our fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Theonas, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u103	So I think that at the moment the incorporation of the special regulations into the Rules of Procedure of the House automatically abolishes this secrecy of Part II. I think this is due to the initiative taken by Nikos Voutsis, to rationalise, modernise, democratise the functioning of the Rules of Procedure, not the Rules of Procedure itself. That's what the House does, it doesn't do it alone. There has also been a lot of discussion about the cost of Parliament. I'll say a word and I'll close with it, don't worry about anyone. He's been bothering me since. There has always been a talk about the cost of Parliament, "It costs Parliament, to make them a hundred and fifty". So the small parties would not be represented in the House at all. So I say to you that this House of three hundred MPs costs less than the King's great captain. It is not a question whether or not there should be the incarcerator and the organs he used or the forces he used, but in the democracy expressed with Parliament, the cost that he might have been much less cannot be accepted. I'm saying it was much less than the cost that the groaner had along with what he had to do with the king's court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, too. I would call on the speakers not to ask them to give a second answer, because it will be extremely far and painful to vote. I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u105	I would like to say a second word, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u106	All right, let's start with two minutes to each. Mr. Syragos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u107	Madam President, I will try to reduce my time as much as I can, just a few issues have been raised and we need some answers. I will start by saying - I did not intend to do so - that when there is a criticism, which is largely based on suspicion, I think it is unjustified and wrong, because the criterion it uses is subjective. If it is based again on past mistakes, it is not complete if it does not say who made these mistakes. I'm closing this chapter. I'm making a wish. As this debate so far has taken place in Part B, there has been - and as soon as possible - also in Part A, for which much has been heard. This requires many improvements, so as to favour the practical spirit in the discussion and the cultivation of dialogue, and from there on all these procedures will tend in that direction. I am ending this issue here. Following the legislative improvements - I think fourteen - and the statements, explanations and detailed speech of the President of the Parliament, I think that many issues have been resolved on many issues from which any doubts or issues have been raised. I should briefly like to mention, repeating the proposal, that the subject of the thematic secretary was cleared, which is an important matter. We have clarified its responsibilities to the extent described and of course a clear position in the hierarchy. There has also been a legislative improvement. The role of the Strategic Planning Committee, which is advisory, advisory but is not something that exists elsewhere, has been clarified. As I mentioned in my prototype and in other parliaments there is this principle and in the European Parliament. There's no excuse for seeing her with suspicion. Article 24 concerns the Legal Service. I have pointed out here and now that its role in relation to the Scientific Service of Parliament, which, due to its specificity and seriousness, is enshrined in Rules 160 to 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the House of First Instance. Its operation, its councils, shall be guaranteed. No relationship with each other. The roles are distinct, and therefore also a legislative improvement that I have seen, which is not about the Scientific Agency but about the Legal Council of the State, I think it is clear now what we are talking about. We cannot go into conflict with any authority or committees. For Articles 29 and 30, a legislative improvement was made with regard to the transitional provision. I would once again like to point out that it is a transitional provision and so it needs to be seen. I mean, he comes to heal temporarily until things work out. In any case, with the explanations given and some legislative improvements submitted, I think that there too, whatever fears may have arisen, must be taken into account. Finally, I'm coming to the channel. The Parliamentary channel plays a central role. It is an mediator and must be independent on the one hand. On the other hand, we have some safeguards. In other words, we have a involvement of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure in this procedure and of the plenary, either indirectly or at some point, if necessary. We must not forget the existence of the Committee on ethics, which deals with issues that may arise. It is also safeguardive as to the control of the channel, but in general, to check whether anything happens or there is a breach. That is something that must not be omitted. This committee has an important role and has, as you have seen, prominent figures. Finally, the workers on the channel are not absent from this process. I should like to close, Mr President, by wishing, as I said at the beginning, that the same debate should take place in Part I of the Rules of Procedure. I would also like to say thank you to the employees. But there is a risk that I might be misunderstood "when everyone said, as if you were now." I just want to say what I have to say - and I believe that it has been cultivated by all parties and by me personally - is that this proves in practice. I feel that by experiencing the cooperation that officials have with us, it is what they see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Tragakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u109	I have a lot to answer. I will not be tempted to respond to political questions, because from the outset I have said that it is the procedure for Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I did say it was a completely consensual process. But I have to answer some things. I am pleased, first of all, that Mr Voutsis, the President of Parliament, fully agrees with what the Chief of Staff Response has identified as the parliamentary-Government relations and the difficulties that exist. I do not want to talk about details. The President said there was a complaint from the Chief of Officerial Representation, which was reasonable. I would remind you, Mr President, that the Conference of Presidents has repeatedly raised the question of the fact that the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry submitted by the New Democracy is pending. It is even a proposal, which has been submitted earlier than the proposal for a committee of inquiry which the Government had submitted. I think it is not your concern, and that is why I do not mention it. It's about the government. It cannot be ignored by the government, by the fact that a request has been submitted first signed by the Chief of Staff and by the entire parliamentary group to set up a committee of inquiry and ignore it. But I'm glad you've agreed with what the Chief of Staff has said. I am also pleased that the President recognised that at the end of 2014, the staff of the House were exactly half of them since 2004. Just half! It's not an exaggeration, it was exactly half.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u110	Just twice as much. In 2015 and 2004, there were a thousand five hundred and seven hundred respectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u111	No, the staff who left - that is what I mean - since 2008, when the staff started leaving and became less than six hundred, the officials of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u112	Let's see the relevant evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u113	You should check out the relevant evidence. It may have been the voluntary or the fact that they all wanted to catch up with some things and we had a rapid fleeing. So we've had a reduction in staff. As far as the specific regulations are concerned, Mr President, I would remind you that in November 2015 we agreed together and you consented. It was a commitment, that is. The request was submitted by me. But you're tied up. So your commitment has been valid since then, that the special regulations had to come and be incorporated. I therefore welcomed the incorporation of the special regulations as a very positive step. I would like to reply to you, Mr President, on the subject you have raised, that the special regulations established customer relations. You said it, but you said then - by complementing it - that it was necessary, because under the special regulations certain units, organic units, which were necessary to be framed by a certain staff with certain competences and certain qualifications, are created. I would like now to go to the subject of the establishment plan. I'll agree with you. It doesn't create many new posts. He creates, but he doesn't create the point where he leaves implied. Because it ignores the fact that the positions adopted on the basis of the establishment plan are the incorporation of the specific regulations. I have to say it because I want to restore the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u114	In fact, these positions have not been paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, I want to restore the truth. The two colleagues have said that they are coming from PASOK. They said that there is intent and on the basis of our establishment plan, the right is given, and so on. Not to you. Indeed, Mr Papatheodorou was very careful in the committee and I was surprised when he said, 'Mr. President, what I shall say is not about you are about the future president who can be anyone else'. I am saying this to solve this misunderstanding too, because I saw that you crossed swords and did not have to have such a day's reaction. I am pleased and welcome your commitment - because it was a commitment to me after you said so - that the first special thematic secretary to be appointed will come from Parliament. This gives us the right to hope that one of the members of this House will be the one to give the following. Because as I had said to the committee, it is the special thematic secretary who gives the follow-up, because the Secretary-General and the Special Secretary are posted officials. That's corrected. The proposal was - and Mr Papatheodorou and I, and Mr Lykoudis and all colleagues - that the special thematic secretary cannot take the lead of the Special Secretary. So with the legislative improvement you have brought, the Secretary-General will be replaced by the Special Secretary and the Special Secretary will be replaced by the Special Thematic Secretary. For the book now. The subject of the property I personally put it for many years now and because of my specialty, because I am an engineer. There are indeed difficulties. There should indeed be an agency dealing with this issue. Of course, what you mentioned about the plot which exists there in Ano Liosia is a plot which was donated to the House, provided that the House is transferred there. In other words, the donor had a prerequisite - if I am not mistaken - that is where the House should go. As you can see, there has been a study of whether certain services in this House are going. It's unsolved. It's not closed. You saw that, with reference to the amounts of Parliament's budget, which from 226,000 in 2009 went to 136,000 now in 2015 with rapid reductions, I did not mention at all the reduction last year's with this year's budget, because I took account of the 11,000,000 that, in fact, are needed to reform and reform the Benaeus Library. Together we claimed the Old Parliament, together we are trying to do the work at the Benacio Library. However, I have to make a few comments on the legal service. I will insist here, Mr President, and I do not do this for any other reason, but because, indeed, it will deal with a particular subject, after having specified its responsibilities. You will remember that in our original text, responsibilities were not specific. Now we've done some specifics. I really do not understand why - I am speaking to you, I do not understand and I want a convincing explanation - because when the head of this Legal Service comes from the Scientific Service of the Parliament, it does not belong to the Scientific Service of the Parliament. I don't get it. I'm really talking to you. In fact, I'm impressed by obsession. There is an obsession, which is inexplicable, because once we have laid down what responsibilities - we have placed them on the table - I think there should be. Think shortly before the vote on this article, because I do not see why we should have an argument on such a matter. Now, as far as the address is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Tragakis, you don't have any more time. Eight minutes you've been talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u117	I don't accept it. Excuse me. I am trying to clarify my proposals for articles, so that I do not take the floor in every article, and I am placed in every article as I have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u118	Right to every article? Who told you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u119	Please, Madam President, not me. Please. Well, as far as strategic planning is concerned. That's not how it went at first. The original intention was not strategic planning. I can have the fatherhood of the name of the strategic design. It was called surveillance. It was internal affairs. The fact that there are also other parliaments is mentioned is certainly there. But which parliaments are there? There is the English, French, Danish and European Parliaments. They have above and below the House. They have Senate too. There are therefore a number of questions of competence overlap. Since there's a overlap of responsibilities, a control service could exist. I shall disagree here, Mr President, on this matter. I would also like to refer to the article on European programmes. The President was right to say that the European programmes offer the House. As long as I can tell you that the committee has been able to get a programme from Serbia of EUR 1,400,000, i.e. warm money, which came to Parliament. We received a programme from Turkey the other day, amounting to 1,000 000. Turkey calls for our own advice and contribution to the absorption of European programmes. It is a programme in progress of about 1.5 million from Croatia. So here I would like to congratulate the committee' s role, except that I want to praise - because I see friends and colleagues - and the fact that the Directorate-General for International Relations is doing a great deal of work. The President has recognised the multitude of activity that our Parliament has in all its agencies. There is no body that does not have a leading role. I mean that! There is no international organization where our Parliament does not have a leading role. Irrespective of the Groups of Friends. I'm talking about organizations. So we must also say there that a great deal of work is being done. As far as the evaluation is concerned, Mr President, I will still disagree. We're not going to vote on the article. I shall be speaking during the vote, because I come from a region where the word 'basa' is very important. So when we all agreed on the 30% proposed by the President in terms of evaluation, and on this issue - I'm sorry I'm a little tough, but I have to do it - the mobilisation of the interview, we had to stay at 30%. I don't see why we're ruining our hearts for the five more molecules you want to give. I don't want to get into any more thoughts about what it might hide. I'm sure he doesn't hide anything. Why not do so after we have all committed ourselves to the committee? We all left the committee that day, believing that the interview will be thirty molecules. Why are we now coming back and saying that because of the fact that L.4369/2016 we have to put the thirty-five molecules? The House has, indeed, activities it grants. I'll tell you about an activity. Apart from the fact that we have adopted all the children who have been in favour of patronage - because they have actually fallen in favour of patronage - we have other donations that we are giving. Do not forget that it is a great achievement of the Teenagers House and it is not a small sum of the Teenagers House. It is a multitude of activity, which offers, regardless of whether it has its positive or negative comments. I will make two comments and close, Madam President. The President said about the positions of the Vice-Presidents and to see - in the next House, he probably meant - whether there would be a choice for other Vice-Presidents. Many Vice-Presidents I see and I don't understand why. Because I made a reference to my prototype, as far as the electoral law is concerned, and as far as the association of electoral law and constitutional reform is concerned, I will repeat it once again. Do not connect the electoral law to the constitutional review. Another procedure, another procedure. With the electoral law, which is likely to be vacant, which will bring out ten, twelve, fifteen parties, will we have fifteen Vice-Presidents? To be the number of Vice-Presidents appointed now. If you want to add another one, because the House has many activities to add. We must not, however, get to the point and each party has Vice-Presidents. As far as Part I is concerned, which will be discussed in detail, I will set an example today, Madam President. I will take the example of the bill, which is submitted within a few hours, the bill for COSCO. So there comes a bill, in accordance with the urgency procedure, and we are now pressing on with the urgency procedure to vote for a contract - that is, it is a bill that validates a contract - which has been known for six, eight, ten months, to ratify it at the last minute, invoking the reasoning that the Prime Minister is going to China and has to have it. Of course he has the contract ratified by the House. Why wouldn't he have come under the normal procedure, since the last two, three weeks, we haven't had much legislative work? So why wouldn't he have come in this process and come with such pressure now? So the accusations he has said - not for you, for the Government - the Chief of Officerial Responsibility, are abundantly vindicated by this example that I mentioned now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Tragaki, you've spoken twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President, for recognising it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u122	And you threatened me already that you could talk that much. As an old parliamentarian, you should know that the entire parliamentary procedure needs clarity at a particular time. That's the talent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u123	Do you notice me now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u124	No, but don't say we'd have more time under article. If you want to be here until the afternoon session, at 18: 00, I'd be happy to. Mr. Rabbit, how much do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u125	Not very much. Not as long as Mr. Tragakis, at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u126	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u127	I would like to mention once again the hypocrisy that exists in this Chamber in discussing these things. We are talking about democracy, we are talking about the same rights that must exist, but the third party in the Greek Parliament does not have the right, as should have the Vice-President. This is done with the agreement of all parties, for the first time in the Greek Parliament and only for the Golden Dawn. So you are talking here about democracy, about institutions and about what you respect, about having Vice-President of the Greek Parliament, the fifth or sixth party, but not the third party. So let us see whether that is right and whether it is democratic. Because it is nice to say that there is democracy, but democracy means doing things that do not suit us, doing things that can be contrary to our ideological convictions, perhaps. If anyone has ideological differences, we don't look at him disappearing or sneezing him. I think so, anyway. So let us look at what happens in this case. Let us look at why the channel of Parliament - which now employs tens of workers as if the BBC were the BBC - never calls for a representative of the third parliamentary force - I repeat - in order to speak in order to express himself and see whether the Greek people agree with what we say or reject. If there were a normal democracy, then, it would not be afraid of these issues. Since the President of Parliament is in the Chamber right now, I would like to remind him of a debate which he shows, because in this area he will never reach the knife in the bone. Because they have been involved by all parties in the scandals that have taken place for so many years. So at a meeting with some managers, I think of the OTAs, Mr. Voutiss had said. Don't look now, bring on the surface the financial scandals that have happened here, because the only win will be Golden Dawn. That's the reality. If the knife reaches the bone, if we look at what has really happened, the only win will be Golden Dawn. Because never any Member of Parliament, no member of the Golden Dawn, has ever been involved in economic scandals, with dishonesty and with irregularities. We will, therefore, urge and tell Mr Voutsis and anyone else who wants to get to this point and even punish people who have been directly or indirectly involved with the parties in which these people are serving and are with them. Then we will see that there is a real democratic feeling. Then we'll see that we really want to clear the day out of the wheat. Otherwise, everything we're talking about is having to talk. Once again the Greek people's impression that the Greek Parliament is a group is an S.A. - to say this - it is an operation that works for its own interests and not for the interests of the Greek people. We are at the gruesome point, the Greek Parliament cannot legislate unless it is approved by the European Union. So these things should be solved. I would also like to ask a question, because we are not often given the opportunity to put questions and to answer them. A short time ago we had seen that there was a reserve of the Greek Parliament - which had been asked to be deposited in a common fund - which, if I am not wrong, was about EUR 65 million or EUR 67 million. I would like to ask, because I am not aware of this: Where are these reserves in the Greek Parliament? What's the Greek Parliament? Is it a business - I repeat again - which has financial resources? Who knows these resources? Does the Greek citizen know them? We do not know them, however. So where does all this revenue come from? Where are they going? Who's running them and what's going on? The ordinary Greek citizen does not know them, nor do we know them. We ask these questions, in order to answer them, if you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u128	Thank you for the time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u129	Madam President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u130	You want to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u131	Only in this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u132	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u133	It is a delicate matter, because it concerns economic matters and must indeed be in your knowledge and knowledge of other Members. First of all, every public body and the general government has a reserve. In the budget there is a special code, where two, three, five, ten million, included in the budget, are deposited each year in the reserve. The purpose is - if you see the special regulation - basic for building extensions and investments and such projects. In other words, it is neither sponsorship nor a man puts a hand in it. He's in forward accounts, with special contracts made with the banks, and he's still like that. In other words, there is no transfer of funds through there. If it moves, it will be for a specific large or smaller project that the House will probably do at some point. From that sum, which is of the order of 77 million, 67 million - if I remember well, because I have signed it - went to the Bank of Greece, as all the other bodies of the general government did - this was also an element of doubt as to whether or not they should have gone through - at a much higher interest rate. Perhaps in some respects it has been said that we have a greater risk. It's not like that. It doesn't matter. We are not talking about this now. However, these are the data, and in any case each party must know. There is a special agency of the House that manages it. It is independent of the reserve of the Foundation for Democracy and Parliament - which is another reserve, much less - and independent of the budget and management and the funds that exist within the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Papatheodorou, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u135	I will surprise you, Madam President. I need three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u136	Thank you. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u137	It is also expected that there will be an interest and a great debate when it comes to our attention is the new Rules of Procedure and the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the House, because in any case Parliament remains a constitutionally protected institution and, of course, an institution which has its own function, so like him to be likened to other institutions provided for by formal laws, I think it is not very helpful. We have urged the Government and the Bureau of Parliament to make as much consensus as possible on the remarks and criticisms we have made. It seems that at the end of the day, and I want to say this, there is this adjustment, for example, on the subject of the special thematic secretary, where the Secretary-General will now be replaced exclusively by the Special Secretary of Parliament. I think it is very positive. If I asked, Madam President, for a little time, it is because I wish only to make a few comments on the legislative improvements tabled by the Bureau. I say this because I consider them to be particularly dangerous. I did not expect, for example, that a major issue such as the control of services, the control of computer systems, would become the subject of a legislative improvement. I read in the famous planning and strategic planning service: 'Control of computer systems to determine whether they meet their objectives and whether they have been incorporated into them sufficient insurance'. That is, very simply, if you were to talk to a informant, he would tell you that this department is simply checking the computer systems. That and the Members of Parliament should also know that, but the officials should also know that. When we talked about confusing responsibilities in the programming unit, we meant that there are also such risks. And I would like to tell you that this danger is described here and, of course, we disagree with such a perspective. I do not think this is the case in the House. Other services take such procedures and actions. Finally, I would like to say this: the question of duplication between the coordinator and the channel board is reintroduced. I won't go into details. I will tell you that even in the legislative improvement - so if you wish, we are so cautious - we read that the coordinator of the station or the board of directors informs us every six months. After 15 days of discussions, what exactly do we want? Do we want to give this responsibility to the coordinator and it ends up from there and beyond any other debate or the board of directors? I think that one of these details is judged, if you like, and the way in which we have considered some of the most important regulations in this regulation. I repeat, and I do not want to abuse your time any more, that because there has been an inclination before about the lack of malignancy of certain parties against this debate, I would also say that, when 40% of the interview in law-making is going through 35%, then we are not talking about defective malignancy, but we are just talking about a normal arrangement, which reaches its limits. I fully understand that 35% is the limit on which the interim evaluation of officials can be based. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u138	Thank you. Mr. Lambroulis, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u139	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Lykoudis has the floor. You, Mr. Lykoudi, said you wanted to talk for two minutes. You mean it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u141	I may reach three or four minutes, but I will not go any further, precisely because I will use them to protest about the mismanagement of the time that is taking place today and every other time. Our very good colleague, Mr Carras, who has a particular sense of humor, has said many times that there is a distortion among the lawyers, a legal perversion to develop an indiscriminate argument, while reposing the detail and subtle detail of detail. This is a common phenomenon for lawyers. There is another type of distortion here, the parliamentary perversion. It is incredible to violate the agenda made by any Member who speaks! That's what I can't deal with. I mean, I can't deal with it. There is not only a derogation from this point of view from fellow Members, to say something else. They only say different things. There was a party representative here today who spoke thirteen and a half minutes about the Rules of Procedure and said completely different things, other issues, from Brexit to whatever else one might imagine. This cannot be tolerated, Madam President! And it was with your tolerance, with your involuntary involvement in the process. It cannot go on! Madam President, I myself a week ago in the development debate had formulated a text and a position, an intervention, in my opinion, very interesting. I did not get to do it because I was not present when my name was formulated, as something personal had happened to me. Let me say today, since I have ten minutes, I will cut off my speech the other day, and let us speak today about the Rules of Procedure, I will talk about development! This story can't go on! The parliamentary procedure is not being led anywhere in this way. I've already talked one minute and thirty seconds, and I'm coming to the rest of my minute and thirty seconds to talk about the Rules of Procedure. I believe that there has been a very good discussion in both the committees and today, and I would like to agree with what President Voutsis said, that I wish we had these kinds of debates in this House all the time. This, of course, also has to do with how we dealt with the debate on the Rules of Procedure, the Party of Officers, Mr Tragakis, who really has not only been substantial, but has made a great contribution to looking for and finding common places in the Rules of Procedure, because it concerns us all. In this sense, then, I say that in most cases, we have agreed. We agreed and voted in favour of the principle. However, three issues have remained, in my opinion. The first is - and I quote it in my prototype - the issue of moleculosis, where I believe that what Mr Tragakis has said is right. There's a matter. Why can't we agree on what we agreed on in the committees as well? The second has something to do with which I am not convinced, namely that the question of the committee on legal support is such a simple matter and that it has nothing to do with one, I feel, of the scientific service. The third is what I had put forward for Article 48, but I have to tell you that I had a one-minute conversation with the Secretary-General, the objections and the feeling I had with regard to the wording were ambiguity. I think you have convinced me, Mr General, that there is an approach that is reasonable on this issue. But on the other two issues, I still object. Generally speaking, I repeat and insist that the assessment we have made from the outset that it is a promotional regulation that is being shaped today and because, in general terms, something that we think works forwardly, we have no reason but to support it, we are voting in favour of this Regulation. I would just like to say something, Mr President, Mr Voutsi, in relation to what you said at the beginning. There's a matter. The unfinished issues that you showed up, why have they been unresolved for so many years? I am referring, in other words, to matters relating to the property of the Greek Parliament. How can we easily now say that we do not know where it belongs or know where it belongs and does not belong to the House, or that there is a territorial area in North Attica that we do not know what is happening or, in any case, what the House's relationship is with the Old Parliament's building etc. That's not details, it's not evidence to talk to each other and say, you see, my child, we haven't solved that yet. These are colossal issues. How have these years been left in the inertia? In any case, if we are now pointing it out, Mr President, something needs to be done, is it not? There is something we need to do with these issues. It is not enough to point them out today in order to record them between us and to be happy, to be satisfied that we have now agreed that we are now in the process of finding a solution, we must also find a solution and find it quickly. I repeat, Madam President, that we are positive, first and foremost, to the objections which we have, we shall vote without prejudice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Carras, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u143	Yes, Madam President, if you would be kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u145	Madam President, I would like to stress the fertileness of dialogue, the usefulness of dialogue and to note that, in spite of all the efforts of all sides, there are still a number of issues on which we are reserved and which I only say briefly: I do not understand why moleculosis in evaluation, the permanentity, which comes with Article 29, should be differentiated in the first application of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Rule 30. We could therefore stay in the established rules of Article 29 without changing this molecules. Of course, the issue of the Legal Support Office of the Parliament remains my reservations. However, I have to say that at a more specific point for the Thematic Secretary, I still have reservations, although there has been a wide debate, because - and my reservations are there - Parliament's own services could offer this work, could a department or a Parliament's department meet the needs. I consider the fact that there is no ownership or there is no record of the property or that Parliament's assets are being sought is an internal issue, which can in time be covered but should not be wasted any more time, Madam President, because, although the public has the privilege of irreversible rights but when real situations arise, they cannot be dealt with. These are my remarks and I shall return to the vote. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, the proposal: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the House - Part II' (VAT 51 A'/10.4.1997) and Part Parliamentary (VAT 106 A'/24.6.1987), as applicable'. Does this House accept the proposal in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u147	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u148	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u149	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u150	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u151	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u152	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u153	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u154	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u155	Consequently, the proposal: 'To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Financial Affairs 51 A'/10.4.1997) and Part A (Financial Affairs 106 A'/24.6.1987) as in force' was accepted by a majority. We are entering the vote on the articles on Part II of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Does the House agree to Rule 1?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u156	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u157	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u158	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u159	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u160	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u161	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u162	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u163	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u164	Article 1 was therefore accepted by a majority. Does the House agree that Article 2, as amended, is to be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u165	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u166	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u167	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u168	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u169	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u170	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u171	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u172	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u173	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Does the House agree to Rule 3, as amended?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u174	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u175	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u176	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u177	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u178	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u179	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u180	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u181	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u182	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u183	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u184	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u185	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u186	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u187	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u188	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u189	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u190	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u191	Article 4 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 5 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u192	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u193	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u194	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u195	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u196	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u197	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u198	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u199	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u200	Article 5 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u201	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u202	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u204	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u205	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u206	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u207	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u208	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u209	Article 6 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u210	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u211	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u213	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u214	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u215	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u216	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u217	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u218	Article 7 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 8 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u219	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u220	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u222	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u223	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u224	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u225	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u226	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u227	Article 8 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u228	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u229	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u231	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u232	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u233	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u234	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u235	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u236	Article 9 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 10 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u237	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u238	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u239	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u240	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u241	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u242	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u243	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u244	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u245	Article 10 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u246	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u247	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u249	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u250	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u251	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u252	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u253	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u254	Article 11 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u255	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u256	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u258	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u259	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u260	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u261	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u262	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u263	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 13?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u264	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u265	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u266	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u267	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u268	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u269	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u270	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u271	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u272	Article 13 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 14 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u273	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u274	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u275	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u276	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u277	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u278	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u279	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u280	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u281	Article 14 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 15 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u282	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u283	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u284	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u285	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u286	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u287	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u288	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u289	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u290	Article 15 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u291	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u292	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u293	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u294	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u295	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u296	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u297	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u298	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u299	Article 16 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u300	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u301	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u302	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u303	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u304	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u305	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u306	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u307	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u308	Article 17 has therefore been unanimously accepted. Will Rule 18 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u309	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u310	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u312	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u313	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u314	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u315	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u316	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u317	Article 18 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted, as amended?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u318	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u319	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u321	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u322	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u323	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u324	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u326	Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Will Rule 20 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u327	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u330	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u331	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u333	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u334	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u335	Article 20 was therefore accepted by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 21?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u336	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u338	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u339	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u340	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u341	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u342	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u343	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u344	Article 21 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted, as amended?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u345	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u346	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u348	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u351	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u353	Article 22 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u354	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u355	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u357	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u358	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u359	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u360	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u361	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u362	Article 23 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u363	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u364	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u366	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u367	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u368	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u369	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u370	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u371	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Will Rule 25 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u372	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u373	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u374	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u375	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u376	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u377	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u378	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u379	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u380	Article 25 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 26 be accepted, as amended?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u381	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u382	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u383	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u384	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u385	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u386	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u387	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u388	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u389	Article 26 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 27?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u390	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u391	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u392	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u393	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u394	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u395	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u396	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u397	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u398	Article 27 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 28 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u399	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u400	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u402	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u403	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u404	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u405	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u406	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u407	Article 28 was therefore accepted by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 29, as amended?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u408	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u409	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u411	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u412	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u414	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u415	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u416	Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Will Rule 30 be accepted, as amended?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u417	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u418	Proceedings of the Court of First Instance
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u419	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u420	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u421	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u422	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u423	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u424	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u425	Article 30 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u426	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u427	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u429	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u430	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u431	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u432	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u433	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u434	Article 31 was therefore accepted by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 32?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u435	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u436	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u437	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u439	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u440	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u441	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u442	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u443	Article 32 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 33 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u444	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u445	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u447	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u449	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u450	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u451	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u452	Article 33 has therefore been accepted by a majority. Will Rule 34 be accepted, as amended?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u453	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u454	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u456	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u457	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u458	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u459	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u460	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u461	Article 34 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Will Rule 35 be accepted, as amended?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u462	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u463	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u464	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u465	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u466	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u467	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u468	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u469	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u470	Article 35 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u471	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u472	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u473	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u474	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u475	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u476	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u477	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u478	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u479	Article 36 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 37 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u480	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u481	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u482	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u483	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u484	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u485	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u486	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u487	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u488	Article 37 has therefore been accepted by a majority. Will Rule 38 be accepted, as amended?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u489	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u490	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u491	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u492	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u493	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u494	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u495	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u496	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u497	Article 38 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u498	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u499	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u501	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u502	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u503	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u504	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u505	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u506	Article 39 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 40 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u507	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u508	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u510	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u512	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u513	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u514	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u515	Article 40 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 41 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u516	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u520	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u522	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u524	Article 41 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 42 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u525	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u527	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u529	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u531	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u533	Article 42 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u534	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u538	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u540	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u542	Article 43 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u543	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u544	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u545	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u546	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u547	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u548	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u549	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u550	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u551	Article 44 has therefore been accepted unanimously. Will Rule 45 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u552	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u553	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u555	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u556	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u557	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u558	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u559	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u560	Article 45 has therefore been accepted by a majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u561	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u562	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u563	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u564	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u565	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u566	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u567	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u568	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u569	Article 46 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u570	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u571	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u572	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u573	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u574	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u575	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u576	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u577	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u578	Article 47 has therefore been accepted by a majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u579	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u581	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u582	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u583	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u585	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u586	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u587	Article 48 was therefore accepted by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 49?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u588	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u589	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u590	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u591	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u592	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u593	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u594	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u595	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u596	Article 49 has therefore been accepted by a majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u597	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u598	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u599	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u600	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u601	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u602	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u603	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u604	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u605	Article 50 has therefore been accepted by a majority. Will Rule 51 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u606	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u607	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u609	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u610	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u611	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u612	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u614	Article 51 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 52 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u615	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u616	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u618	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u619	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u620	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u621	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u622	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u623	Article 52 was therefore accepted by a majority. We move to Rule 53 on the Special Rules of Procedure of the State Budget Office in Parliament, including the Rules of Procedure (Articles 1 to 8). Will Rule 53 be accepted, with the amendment of Nos 2 and 8 of the Special Regulations?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u624	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u625	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u627	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u628	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u629	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u630	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u631	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u632	Article 53 was therefore accepted by a majority by the amendment of the Regulations Nos 2 and 8. Will Rule 54 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u633	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u634	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u636	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u637	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u638	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u639	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u640	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u641	Article 54 was therefore accepted by a majority. As regards the parliamentary part of the House's Rules of Procedure: Will Rule 55 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u642	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u643	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u644	majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u645	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u646	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u647	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u648	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u649	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u650	Article 55 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u651	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u652	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u653	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u654	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u655	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u656	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u657	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u658	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u659	Article 56 has therefore been accepted unanimously. Will Rule 57 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u660	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u661	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u662	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u663	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u664	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u665	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u666	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u667	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u668	Article 57 was therefore accepted by a majority. We are entering the vote of the President-in-Office of the Council. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u669	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u670	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u671	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u672	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u673	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u674	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u675	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u676	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u677	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The proposal of the President of the Greek Parliament was therefore accepted in principle and on articles. Does this House also accept the proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u678	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u679	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u680	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u681	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u682	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u683	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u684	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u685	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u686	Consequently, the proposal by the President of Parliament: "To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Government Gazette 51 A/10.4.1997) and Part Parliamentary Party (Government Gazette 106 A/24.6.1987), as in force", was accepted by a majority in principle, articles and all. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u687	The House therefore granted the authorization requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-06-28-S1-commons.u688	With the agreement of the House at 15.13 p.m., the meeting for today, Tuesday, 28 June 2016, 18.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: One discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Articles 19, 20, 29, 30, 33, 35, 40 to 46 of Directive 2013/34/EU on 'the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC' (OJ L 340, 30.12.2013, p. L 189 of 29 June 2013) and Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU. L 330/1 of 15 November 2014) ‘amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards the disclosure of non-financial information and information on the diversity of certain large enterprises and groups’ and other provisions of the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism’.
