ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is tabling its report on Parliament's draft budget for the financial year 2017 and on Parliament's statement of expenditure for the financial year 2015. Furthermore, the Ministers of Finance, Economy, Development and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights submitted a draft law on 11-11-2016 on ‘Compatibility of legislation with Directive 2014/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements for consumers of residential immovable property and amending Directive 2008/48/EC and other provisions of the Ministry of Finance’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with our second question with number 187/8-11-2016.Piraeus II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamantos Manolakos Manolakos to the Minister of Health, on the risk of stopping the endocrine clinic of the Hospital of Nice "Agios Panteleimonas". The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Paulakis. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the endocrine clinic at the Hospital of Nice for years has been experiencing problems due to the subsecution to serve increased needs of the hospital. Now it is at the risk of stopping its operation, because the manager is retiring and there will be no scientific person responsible for the unit, after there have been two subsidiary doctors left, one on 25 November, namely, in ten days, he is fired. At the same time, three specialists who are doctors will leave and will be forced to continue their specialty in another hospital. The negative effects will be immediate as this clinic serves dozens of patients in the external hospitals, monitor chronic patients and also meet needs with endocrine problems treated in other hospital clinics. It also has four beds for hospitals, covered by a nurse, who, of course, does not belong to this department, but to the First pathological. You see, how many shortcomings there are and we go to worse situations. Lacks, of course, exist in other departments and in other hospital clinics. The current situation will deteriorate due to the gradual dismissal of subsidiary doctors whose contracts expire in the coming months. Of course, this cause of depression and deterioration is that the government is trying to save funds from the state budget by cutting off health in order to strengthen business groups. That is why there are so many shortcomings. What we are asking you to do - if you want to do so - is to directly cover the position of the director of endocrine clinic in order not to close this section, strengthen the endocrine clinic and the Nice Hospital, by recruiting the necessary staff, full-time and permanentisation of all subsidiary doctors and other workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Manolakou, thank you for the question. I'll be very specific. Firstly, there is a problem, because this clinic has had only one specialist for a long time. The others had left in previous years, whether by retirement or because they chose the private profession. It has been reinforced with two auxiliary doctors. There is now a process, which will be completed in the next few days, to transfer a colleague who works in the hospital, but she has acquired the expertise of endocrinology and will be appointed by transfer as curator II there. This process has started since October and is being completed in the next few days. Also, on the occasion of this Director's position, we are in agreement with Mr Vernardakis and Mrs Gerovassili was informed about this: in the parallel programme we predicted that the position of a coordinator - or director retired by the health system - might be called six months before that day. Unfortunately, the thing is stuck -- but it's going to fall off -- the bureaucratic hardening of the General Accountancy. The state budget provides for a budget for the man who serves. If I am a permanent doctor of the ESS and retired on January 5, 2017, in the state budget, a credit has been provided for me for all of 2017.Just when I retire, the General Accounting Office will be informed to stop my payroll. This recruitment, therefore, is provided for in the State budget. So what we are now preparing with Mrs Gerovas is that we will automatically be granting the approval of the declaration of posts retiring from the time the state budget is provided for, because we want the seven hundred sixty permanent doctors' posts that we have called last year and the two thousand already in the process of being called for the time to be added to the system rather than to balance out positions that go away. Of course, this makes it possible because, as you know, the medical potential, which serves in public hospitals leaves the limit of 1 to 5. There is no commitment to leaving five and recruiting one. There's no more that for medical potential. The reason for this is that, on the one hand, the fine cannot be imposed above the head of the Greek state because we do not keep doctors' hours and at the same time, while we guarantee the credit, does not allow us to appoint new permanent doctors. For the time period that will be necessary until the manager's post is announced, the matter will be covered by a transfer to the management position of a curator I or director from the healthcare district. It is not going to stop the training of the qualified, nor will the operation of the hospital be stopped. In my dentistry, I'm going to answer you more overall for some things that concern the hospital. However, this will also be the new curator II, and the position will be temporarily covered by a doctor's move, who will take over the scientific directorate and be proclaimed in the way I said, and it is not only about this position, but about several posts throughout Greece. The next time we can call the post earlier for managers who approach the sixty-seven-year limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. Mrs Manolakou has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u7	Minister, I do not question your programming, although it is late. I say this because the board of directors of the Hospital of Nice has already been acting unanimously since March, and has informed you and asked for the post to be filled. Of course, it's not a place. Two places will be evacuated. She's the assistant doctor and the principal. Therefore, staffing has already been lacking. At least to replace these two posts. It's a clinic that works over her powers. This seems, if you want, also from the move in the incidents he has and by how many patients he serves. I inform you that from official evidence of the movement of external medical services for 2015, the endocrine department covered over its capabilities, over the normal program that had 133% in diabetic and endocrine incidents. This shows how necessary it is to maintain and strengthen the staff-related clinical. What are we worried about? I'll tell you clearly. He's leaving a director who's experienced. In order for this man to be able to deliver, he must already have the staff who are going to have a time of collaboration so that he can get into the process very quickly. And one second: you say that there will be a transition to the mid-term from the health region. You are not asking for a move here, but for one of the "holes" that exist, not creating another "holes". There is a need for the notice to cover the gap, what the management board of the hospital unanimously requested eight months ago. There is a need for them to be quickly recruited. I'm telling you, on November 25th, an adjunct is leaving. At the same time this is seen by today's - if you like - a great mobilisation of hospital doctors, but also of dozens of clubs, trade unions and people's committees. I inform you that, in order to maintain the endocrine clinic of the Hospital of Nice, not only hospital doctors and nurses have been mobilised, but also the popular committees from Nice, Keracini, Perama and Drapetsona. In this sense, we are asking, directly and quickly, not only for appointments to be made, but for no subsidiary to be fired, given that he has acquired the experience of the unit in which he works. Although our criticism is not personal, but it is being done in the government as a whole, to you, Mr Polakis, I would say that you have been a doctor in the State of Nice. You know it's a hospital serving workers, people's neighborhoods that poverty has increased because of your policy and yours and the previous ones, and the situation has deteriorated. Therefore, having a state hospital is a necessity, it is not a luxury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u9	Well, listen to me, Mrs Manolakou. Firstly, the supplementary colleague whose term of office will expire will be immediately replaced, because the procedure has been simplified. It is now made by the health region and not by the Ministry of Health. Appropriations for supplementary doctors are abundant. In fact, not all of the anticipated ones will be covered, especially in primary school. Through a process that will last from one week to ten days or she will go herself, if there is no one else on the list, or if there is someone else on the list. Also, you should know that we have extended the term of about five hundred adjunct doctors who came from previous years and who, if they left on 31-12-2015, when we tried to stabilise the system with our first steps, we would really have a very big problem. We have appointed another thousand two hundred such doctors appointed for a two - year and three - year term. And now I'm going to say certain numbers for the State of Nice, because you tickled me sensitive strings, and I'm fully aware of what's going on. Also, let me tell you that we did not declare the director's position, because in these seven hundred sixty positions we wanted to put new potential and have announced curator's posts across Greece. Specifically for Nice, I know this hospital very well. I left ten years of my life and of my soul there. It's one of the places I've loved as much as anything in my life and I'll say some things. In 2015, the State of Nice - badly - was scheduled to receive EUR 18,436.00 from the state budget from the government of Samara - Venizelos. We, at the end of 2015 and with all that we took in 2015 with negotiation, compromise, elections, etc., at the end of the day, at the end of the day, gave EUR 19 856.445. In 2016 we predicted that the hospital will get 23,231,000 euros from the state budget. At the moment, until today, the hospital has received 20,895,000 euros and another 2,336,000 euros are left to it until 3 December. I see no transfer of funds for big capital. It is the support of the hospital and this hospital needs to be strengthened in particular, because there is indeed a smaller funding than the "Attica" which also produces a project. Secondly, because we have to say some things and not do the hair, in this hospital has been proclaimed by the positions of the seven hundred sixty, eight permanent doctors of the ESS, who are in the process of filling, from old places that our predecessors had frozen. Because while they had credits, they did not publish them, because they wanted to do everything in the private sector. This year in 2016, nine permanent doctors from old notices have been to the hospital in Nice. They've been serving permanent doctors - a nurse, a surgeon, an anaesthetic, a child surgeon, a psychiatrist, a orthopedic, and three in the TLP. This is hospital reinforcement. Also, because it is interconnected with the hospital "Agia Varvara" - the old "Lomamonos" - the same procedure is under way, it is not complete - the ones I tell you have been completed - for two positions to strengthen the "Lomadon" because it is interconnected. Also, to continue, at the present time in the State of Nice, there are twenty-four auxiliary doctors who have gone to the last appointments this year with a number of them. It's clear to reinforce the hospital. Also, since last October-November, 4K and 5K, the hospital have been and have been serving four of the five Municipalities, three of the four Municipalities, seven of the seven Municipal Assistants of Nursing and an ICP of Administrative Secretaries. They're on it. For the first time in many years we have permanent staff in the system. Also, they've taken on two other traumatists. They are eighteen people who have been on duty this year, in 2016. Thirdly, it is in the process of taking office eight people - the decision has been made, we expect approval from the General Accounting Office which is a formal procedure - from the administrative sector that is from the 1998 SAPA competition. And with all this bureaucratic delay and all that rotting - I say it this way - we are in the phase that these are their names and they will take office in the next few days, but certainly before it ends in 2016. We are also talking, for this year, of the five hundred and fifty-five of the notice of other ancillary staff, in the State of Nice, two nurses, two obstetricians, a computer, an assistant nurse, an OHP. They are seven persons and we have extended to the other five who have served since previous years as subsidiary staff. Seven of the twelve came this year. Also, since the CEDEFOP notice - I'm telling you why you've caught endocrinology and you've done "the hair hair" and the rest of you don't see it - they've been serving a doctor in the unit, three nurses, one IC nurses and they're re-approved - and raised - eight other nurses and a doctor at the Artificial Nephrous Unit. As far as the proclamation of the thousand and thirty-eight, the six hundred ninety-one of them are concerned, because there were identical positions in the 4K declaration, 5K, and it concerns the rolling tables, so that they do not reapply there - from the previous rolling table. The results have been obtained for twenty - nine people. The last ones who were PPC last week were completed and now they get a distribution from Administrative Reconstruction to start calling them. They are ten AD nurses, nine AD assistant nurses, three AD chief secretarys, seven traumatists. They've come up with the results, they're waiting for the distribution from Administrative Reconstruction to be sent to hospitals. Of the remaining eight hundred forty-seven to one thousand-six hundred-eight, the whole of the second proclamation, there are six other assistants, medical laboratories and an IP engineer, who will go with a regular proclamation. They will be late, i.e. they will go according to the normal ADP procedure. Finally, I should like to say here that in the State of Nice, the four thousand programme which we announced would be implemented with the money for channel licences, of course it will now be delayed. Since the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki has promised that this will be implemented, it will therefore be implemented - I am officially announcing it - by redistributing national resources through the OAED. It will be a 12-month-old programme, with full pay - and pay and insurance - with PT, PT and HS, with normal working hours, with circular hours, which will cost EUR 65 000 000, which have been guaranteed and when the money from licences comes, these budgets will be strengthened. But also a drachma not to take, this programme will also be carried out through this programme, the State of Nice is expected to be strengthened with some sixty people. That's the situation, that's what we've done, that's what we'll keep doing. Of course, you must acknowledge, Mrs Manolakou, that this is the first time in the history of the Greek state after the relocation, where the insurance funds and their Catholic successor, EOPYY, have, so far, given the state hospitals EUR 200 million real money, not credited, given another EUR 200 million in the next few days - they are duplicated with this Commissioner - and will receive another EUR 100 million in December. In order not to count these 50 million allocated and the 30 million allocated to military and university hospitals, the 30 million that he has received and another 40 million planned for "Papagorgio" and the 37 million that he has taken and another 8 million that will take "Onceo". This brings out a sum of more than EUR 600 million. Never in the history of post-multi-population, and even in times when dogs tied up with sausages - he recalled Mr. Kremastinos at those periods when the paper was handed over by Mr. Avramopoulos and others - did not finance the public health system from the insurance funds with these amounts. The highest amount that has come together in all the best times - and I mean also the One and Papageorgiou and all this - was about 220-230 million euros. And we, in a year of crisis, will reach 600 million. You need to recognise that, too, this conversation that this government takes money to strengthen business groups, makes a monotonous little song. Look at the specific elements and recognize us that we show a clear class division in favour of strengthening the public system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u10	It never became doctors and people on the streets to ask for public health and hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u11	Don't be a party to the WTO. Today the mobilization had seven subsidiary doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u12	Ms. Manolaku, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u13	Don't look at the situation. You can't fool.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u14	Ms. Manolakou, I responded with evidence and you responded with an ideal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Polakis, everybody calm down to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u16	We're calm. We're fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u17	If you're like this, you're not calm.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u18	We're a little stubborn. We're alive people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u19	It will now be discussed the first under number 181/7-11-2016 topical question of the second question of the New Democracy MP, Photinis Arabatzis, Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, regarding the prosecution investigation into the imposition of capital controls. The Minister will answer Mr. Contonis. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on October 22, 2016, the newspaper "GORRA" published information on its front page that judiciary has launched an investigation into the imposition of capital restrictions. The investigation began on the occasion of dozens of monthly reports by citizens who resorted to justice denounced that due to the restrictions on the movement of capital they were in a bad financial situation, since they could not even provide the necessary biopolitics. And of course, Minister, the citizens said nothing different from what is deeply pictured as an unsold trauma to the body of the Greek economy, namely the loss of GDP in 2015-2016, which amounts to an average of EUR 21 billion in the Greek households, EUR 40 billion lost by the closure of the banks and the way the recapitalisation took place, about twenty-six thousand, is being recapitalisationed to small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, many other material consequences. Indeed, Minister, on the basis of the press release, the public prosecutor is studying the case-file and the possibility of committing felony acts, even the state, namely the last betrayal, for Mr Varoufakis, who signed the imposition of capital controls and, of course, all other policies, which may be or may be involved in that design at that time. Always according to the report from the prosecutor's office, dozens of citizens have already passed, but also economists, who are called upon to answer the prosecutor's questions and, above all, to the basic, i.e. whether the capital controls were imposed by absolute need or by errors, omissions, and, most importantly, by intention. According to estimates - as is said - the prosecution investigation will be brought to the attention of the government's members and then, of course, the case-file will be transmitted immediately to the House for the further. I would therefore ask you, Mr Minister, what of all this is happening if it was in the knowledge of your predecessor, and since then, if you and, of course, the Prime Minister have been informed of its research and progress. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to your reply which, of course, goes without saying that the Minister is not taking part in justice, as I am asking my question, Minister, I am not asking for an intervention, but for information on a major political issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. Before I give you the floor to really wish you success in the new Ministry, Mr Contonis. Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President, and your wishes. Ladies and gentlemen, today's question, which I have to answer, raises most of the questions. Because it is assumed that Greek MPs and Greek MPs know only the basics. Article 241 of the Code of Criminal Procedure states that the preliminary examination, which has been ordered, either following petitions, or reports of formal notice, or of its own motion by the competent prosecutor, has two features: the press document and the absolute secrecy. Today, therefore, the New Democracy Party is coming here by the honourable Member who asks the timely question and asks for information on the course of the case. In other words, it is called upon by the judiciary of the Minister for Justice to unlawful and request information, and by the public prosecutor twice and to give it to him. Otherwise, Mr President, we have a situation here that should be even more concerned with us. In other words, in this way New Democracy has been dealing with the public prosecutors in previous years, and in this way it thinks it should be dealt with in the future if it ever takes the popular mandate. Because it does not make any difference to ask for information - as the honourable Member said at the end of her speech - when she says that a preliminary examination has been ordered, which is completely secret - I repeat - as laid down in Article 241 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. So here we have to say the truth. And the reality is that this government fully respects the independent role that justice plays as a pillar of the democratic culture, never interferes with its work, nor asks information or asking for information to indicate the course of a case indirectly. Justice - we stress it and we have said so on several occasions - will inevitably do its job. The government shows unequivocal confidence in Greek judges and Greek judges. And to prove what I'm saying is that we have repeatedly legislated to serve most of those bodies by ordinary judges. Last time I introduced to the National Representation the staffing of football disciplinary bodies with regular judges, which New Democracy did not want and asked for a roll-call vote. So here's how the intentions are proved and how the sinful past, in this particular case, seems to be following the current leadership of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Mrs. Arabaji has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u24	The Minister, who has given us lessons, will say, Minister, that the question I have tabled to you was not even to tell me the obvious thing: of course you cannot intervene in justice, which I did not ask you with my question or, of course, to urge you to intervene in it. And of course, Minister, from this step forward, there should be a little bit of gloomy in this way. Why are you actually talking about bringing the newspaper's headlines on your site, the private life of judges on your handkerchiefs? I mean, Minister, that secrecy in the conduct of a judicial investigation, which you have so diligently referred to, concerns persons alone. At what stage is such a case of a major political and economic issue, you have an obligation to inform us. And I will remind you, Minister, that under Article 30 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Minister has the right to order a preliminary examination to the prosecutor, when matters and consequences arise, such as the ones brought about by the capital controls. With regard to what you said about Civic Opposition, Mr Minister, because we are not the same as your Government, we have brought the request for a committee of inquiry, which you, after being prevented for four months, brought it here in Parliament and as a government majority as you will remember, rejected it. While the New Democracy set up a committee of inquiry for the lending of parties and the media, as you well know, signed them. And I wonder, Minister, what you have to say about the revelations, not only of the publication, which come after July, when you rejected the New Democracy's request to set up the Committee of Inquiry, but also from important people within the country and from European politicians, who played a role in the country's euro stay at this time of critical negotiation. I would remind you briefly of what the European Commissioner, friend of Greece and the supporter of Mr Tsipras' policy, Mr Moskovis, said about the Minister of Finance, your first seven months. He said, therefore, that he had unleavened narcissism and added to it: "Today I can say that his action and style not only made Greece lose six valuable months, but they led all Ministers to adopt a competitive attitude towards him and his Government." I would also remind you of the heavy burden of the central banker, Mr. Stournara, on the Committee of Inquiry of Parliament, who said that in 2015 the European Central Bank stopped accepting Greek bonds, following Mr. Varoufakis' statement to Mr. Draghi that he was Minister of Finance of a bankrupt country and that there was no return to what our European partners wanted. As you understand, Minister, all of these and only these testimonies are enough to set up a committee of inquiry and shine the truth. Of course, all of this also relates to the famous revelations of Plan B by the French President, Mr Olad, who in a recent book records a conversation with the Russian President, Mr Putin, who says to him: 'I have to give you a piece of information. Greece has asked us to print drachmas in Russia because they no longer have printeries to do so." Not to mention what Mr Galbraith said in his book on coup d'état, on an emergency statement, direct nationalisation of the Bank of Greece. So you understand how important these recorded revelations are and how important the investigation initiated from the point of view of justice is. Of course, even if everyone throws the damn thing today to Mr Varoufakis, it must not be forgotten that there was a political leader both for the choice of the ministers and for the policy being pursued.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u25	Mrs. Arabatzis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u26	I would like to ask the Minister present: will you ask the public prosecutor to speed up the matter, as you are obliged to do, because this is a major national matter? And, of course, make a commitment if this time on the basis of the findings of the Prosecutor's inquiry the case comes to Parliament, as a parliamentary majority you will be assisting and advocating the establishment of a committee of inquiry in order to investigate and give rise to the responsibilities of both Mr Varoufakis and all the others involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u27	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. It seems that my dear colleague understood that the contents of her question exposes her and her party. For this reason, it has been extended to other types of questions, the press: 'If the proposal for a committee of inquiry is here, what will the government do?', 'if one is to be asked' and 'if the other'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u29	Of course, it's no different, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u30	So I repeat once again that with regard to the preliminary examination ordered by the prosecutor and which the press reports, this is a secret and do not come back, it hurts you. Don't come back. Let justice move on to what the prosecutor has decided to launch. More and more are harming both justice and Parliament. Secondly, the impressive thing you mentioned from this preliminary examination will arise...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u31	If they come up, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u32	No, you said "will arise" in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u33	No, Minister, if they do. It was clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u34	'You have said that responsibility will arise with certainty' - you said -'members of the government'. How do you know, colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u35	What does the Minister say, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u36	What you are hearing, my colleague, you said and you will see it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u37	If they'll come up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u38	If they come up, what? Is it going to be a committee of inquiry, will they?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u39	I want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u40	So here, my colleague, not only are you asking for information, which I cannot give you, because no public prosecutor can give such information, but you are predetermining the course of the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u41	I want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u42	So be careful in this situation you are in, and don't try to draw any arguments from where they don't exist. The last thing I wanted to say is that you know very well what happened with the control of funds. You know very well that the European Central Bank, as soon as the Greek Prime Minister announced the government's intention to hold a referendum, abolished ELA. You know that. And that, of course, was because it was the last hope of an anti-population that had been fully identified with the interests of winning the referendum. However, the referendum also lost opposition and elections, which followed the referendum through a regime of capital control. Does that mean anything to you? Does the fact that this government, under these circumstances and with this agreement it brought for approval to the Greek people and not to the bypasses, as they came from 2010, won the majority in September 2015? Is that what they're telling you? Because they tell us a lot. I would also like to point out that today there is a process of relaxing these controls.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u43	How, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u44	You know them very well. More deposits from 22/7/2016 can be received at 100%. The improvement of the economic climate in the country and, in any case, the improvement of economic indicators seems to be apparent. Already the Commission said yesterday that growth is projected in 2017 in Greece of 2.7%. You realise that the fund control regime is coming to an end and that the situation in the economy is normal, despite the fact that conservative circles, in order not to describe them otherwise, have sought to close the funding. Neither did they nor their domestic representatives. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, if he gets the floor again, I'm going to have to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u47	Mrs. Arabatzis, I would ask you to listen a little bit. Unfortunately, there is no tritology, neither for the Minister nor for the Members. If you take the floor, the Minister will then have to answer. There is no tritology under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u48	For a minute, Mr President, then give me the floor for staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u49	If you want to clarify something from what you said, okay, but not tritology. In other words, I will give you the floor to explain what, in your opinion, has not been properly said by what you said, but you do not have the right to tritology, that is, to express your opinion and ask a new question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u51	But please, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u52	I would like to make it clear - because I am simply surprised - that I said in particular: 'If all the information contained in the publication is valid', 'if it was in knowledge of your predecessor, you yourself and, of course, of the Prime Minister's own and at what stage'. That's all. Neither any person nor anything at all that you implied. And if responsibilities arise and is transmitted, as is usually the case,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u53	All right, you've made it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u54	... what will the government's majority do? If responsibilities arise! Clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u55	But we will not have a debate on this, Mrs Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u57	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u58	Madam President, you are coming back to something that I have answered to you that is not legally possible - and I mentioned the article in the Code of Criminal Procedure - to ask for information either I or my predecessor, Professor Paradise, and to have information. Because we, too, would be illegal as would the D.A. who would give us that information. So do not insist on something that I have explained to you that is wrong. You're asking the wrong question today. What you ask and are persecuted in the text of your current question is completely unfounded. They can't answer. You can't let any public prosecutor give us that information. On the other point, I accept the clarification you have made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u59	You twisted it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u60	You're welcome, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u61	In your prototype, you said something else. You'll see it in the Minutes when the practicers bring it to you to correct it. And fix it there too. I'm telling you, that's what you said in your prototype...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u62	What, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u63	Once you say 'if', this is not in your question. It's a question, which you invented right now,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u64	What?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u65	...equitably because you're in an absolute impossibility to support something that the law forbids. And here, literally, you have my sympathy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u66	You are causing, Minister, abuse of the right to end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u67	Mrs Arabaji and Mr Minister, thank you very much. We move on to the discussion of the fourth under No 156/31-10-2016 topical question by MP for the second cycle of the new Republic of Piraeus Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the delay in the payment of the pensions from the General Accounting Office of the State, following their incorporation into the Single Social Security Agency (ESA). The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mr. Petropoulos. Mr. Katsafantus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, the President has not told you the good news of your new duties, because you do not have any new tasks. Unfortunately, you have a glorious role against Mr Katrugalos, who preferred to escape from this bill, which brought about, where he should define all these problems that he created in the insurer, but also in the pensioners, with all these reductions, which are experienced every month in pay, which they had from pensions and from their subsidiary funds. Minister, as you know, according to Mr.4387/2016, which you voted on in May - we talked to you about amateurism, we talked to you and told you about the sloppiness with which you submitted it and the problems that will arise - incorporate all civil servants, municipal officials, clerics, security bodies, the Armed Forces and the Firefighting in a single insurer, to EFKA. As you have said, in paragraph 2b of that Article, it is laid down that in respect of pensions of those persons referred to in paragraph 1, they shall apply for a retirement pension from the entry into force of this Law until 31 December, they shall not change anything and shall operate from 1-1-2017. However, Article 6(4) stipulates that the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 6 shall apply from 1-7-2016, without, of course, giving any justification to the legislator for why this distinction is made to the representatives, contrary to all other public officials. I would therefore ask you, Minister, why the matter has arrived at the unprecedented - for all those who have submitted their papers to receive the pension and do not even receive a temporary pension - for those who have submitted a pension from March onwards, who are going to the General Accounting Office of the State and who are told that, unfortunately, they are waiting for detailed circulars because they are irresponsible and do not have the power to determine their pension, when they will be retired, on what status and how their pension will be calculated and whether they will receive a temporary pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Before you take the floor, Minister, I would like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, twenty-two students and four educational escorts from the 6th Kastoria Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Unfortunately, follow the last question. Today the sitting is dedicated to parliamentary scrutiny, where Members come and ask questions to the relevant ministers. That's the last question and you'll watch for the last few minutes. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u70	To tell the little students to love their land, which I love. Kastoria is an excellent area and I visit her often when I can. Mr. Katsafade, none of us are escaped and it's not good to say it when George Katrugalos is away from here. He will perform his duties from better positions, where the need for the government is great and under no circumstances is to avoid responsibility on his part. But George Katrugalos doesn't need a counsel and we don't need to talk about these when he's gone. You've done a wrong reading of the law. You wouldn't ask this question the way you do it if you had correctly identified the different points to which you referred. All 1-1-2017 join the FBI. It's true. However, they are all subject to the provisions on the issue of pensions after 13-5-2016. The new provisions of the law take over those who leave their working relationship or entrepreneurship or public relations - the same applies to the task force - after 13-5-2016. It is therefore a question of applying the provisions of the Pensions Act. But especially for the teams, we have predicted that we are making sure that problems do not arise. Of course, I must say first of all that, where there are problems, we will resolve them. Our law is the law and always the legislator corrects, where necessary, those provisions that require correction. But in this case you are asking, as far as the uniforms are concerned, because, according to the law, their retire ment takes place 15 days after the date on which the administrative act in question was published in the FEK, it was only reasonable to ensure that we transfer the time of membership at a later date. That is why we specifically put 1-7-2016 in uniforms as the day that will apply to their own pensions. This is therefore something that is favourable. I would not say it favourably, but something very reasonable that we had to provide. We have set a time-limit for the entry into force of the law on the determination of their own pensions. That's the distinction. It is no longer the distinction. It's a reasonable prediction. With regard to temporary pensions, the General Accounting Office of the State has the power to issue the pensions of all civil servants by the end of December 2016, this year. From January 1st, the FBI will issue them. The General Accounting Office of the State, which is subject to the stricter formalities laid down by the Court of Auditors, is responsible until then. The Circular has been signed by me as early as August and by the relevant Minister as well. It shall also be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, the fact that temporary pensions are issued shows that they have already been issued in the IKA near the three thousand pensions as temporary in this period. It is therefore not accurate that temporary pensions are not issued. Indeed, yesterday or yesterday - on Friday or Thursday, I do not remember well - I signed a Ministerial Decision giving temporary pensions for widows' pensions, because ELSTAT has not yet issued the relevant rates for the adjustment of pensions based on previous years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u71	Before I give the floor to Mr Katsafados, I would like to inform the House that with his written document the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogeros, is aware that the third with number 167/2-11-2016, the first-cycle question of the Member of the Union of Centres, Mr Anastasias Megalamustakas, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problem of increasing the population of stray animals in our country, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mr Apostoloulos abroad. Also, they will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the competent ministers and will be redefined for discussion the following topical questions: The second under number 182-7-11-2016 topical question for the second cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the management of the red loans of the former ATEbank, in an unfair manner for its debtors, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou. Cause: workload. The third, with number 164/1-11-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Ministers for Home Affairs and Rural Development and Food, on the problem of heavy rainfall in the Prefecture of Eotolokarnania, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Skourletis. Cause: the Minister's information on matters of the Ministry. Also, the sixth question, under number 62/10-10-2016, of the second question of the Evian MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Interior, concerning the displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred, six hundred, nine hundred Greek children from the day-care stations will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Skourletis. Cause: the Minister's information on matters of the Ministry. The fifth, with number 127/18-10-2016, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problems of student housing at the University of Epirus, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr.Gavroglou. Cause: the Minister's information on matters of his Ministry. Also, the seventh question under number 173/3-11-2016, on the adoption of the medium-term business plan for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki, will not be discussed as a result of an obstacle of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Kourublis. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. Finally, the first 180/7-11-2016 question of the first cycle of the New Democrat Arta, George Stylios, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the blockades in the start of the work of restoring the old Grand Justice Artas, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzi. Cause: workload. Mr. Katasfados, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I want to be well-off, and I want to believe that your partners have not informed you properly. No one in uniform, whether he was serving in the Armed Forces, or serving in the Security Body and in the Firefighting Body, from March who has filed his papers to come out of the pension, has received a detailed reply from the State General Accounting Office or on how it will be calculated, nor on when it will be retired and has clearly not been retired. This is something that is undeniable. And to all these people, under these very difficult economic conditions, which we all know, who had a high sense of duty, served in their homeland, served in society, served all citizens, in all these people, so under these unfavourable economic conditions, the answer given by the General Accounting Office, Minister - not the answer I give - is that it is unreliable to answer them and awaits clarificational circulars from the relevant Ministry. So I ask you, Minister: is he amateur and clipboard at least the way you dealt with the matter? How long must it take, Minister, for this large portion of the officials who have done their duty too many times, to put their own lives at risk? When does the matter have to be resolved? How long will it take? You know that we are talking about people who are not at a higher economic level. We are talking about people who really need this money and are four and five months that have not even received one euro. They're not awkward, they're not asking, they're not happy. It is what the state owes to people who have huge obligations, who have children who are studying, who have children who are in the province. How can this economy and this household cope? When you built the EVKA and the structure by which you build it now - because now this single body is organised - you should, if anything, have made it possible for there to be a transitional stage, because we knew how long it will take to set up this new body. We are talking about people who have fought and fought in their lives for national and social interests, for national and social peace. I would therefore ask you, because they do not deserve and do not deserve to be in a state of dismissal, as soon as possible to take off these clarificational circulars and to reply to us if you can today and from here, when they will be able to receive a temporary pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u73	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not questioning your good option, Mr. Katasafandos. I explained what I said during my first speech and it is exactly what I said. I have no objections to your statement, because it is mine too, that pension payments are being delayed in this population. I said that it is not a general problem that arises from the law. It doesn't result from the law, because IKA already...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u75	Is this a special problem? Just for them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u76	I'll tell you. I said that by the end of the year the General Accounting Office has the power to give these pensions. He doesn't have it. This does not mean that I am dismantling my own responsibilities to take care of and contribute to the faster issue of pensions for those citizens retired from the General Accounting Office of the State. I can assure you that the problems involved will soon be resolved. These are issues of scrutiny by the Court of Auditors. There are new issues in the law. The Court of Auditors makes its own approach to the legal correctness of the provisions and does so in accordance with the procedures laid down by the Court of Auditors. That is obviously because of the delay. The relevant circular has been issued. What exists and prevents our own omission, I can assure you that it will be abolished too soon to proceed with the extradition of these pensions. It will be done and I have no other sense but the one you have, that there is a bad delay in paying pensions to these people. This problem will be solved as soon as possible. I'll see it too. I would also like to say that I am going to try to resolve any problems that may arise as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-14-S1-commons.u78	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.05 the sitting on Wednesday, November 16, 2016, at 14.30, on the subject of this House's legislative work is closed: according to the agenda distributed.
