ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 4-2-2016, the minutes of the Council meeting held on Thursday, 4 February 2016, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Standardisation of the Arms Trade Treaty’.]] I have the honour to announce to the House the FAQ on Monday, February 8, 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 483/2/2016 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Gerasimios Balaoura, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the cost of using electronic means of payment. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 484/2-2-2016 of the Greek Congressman, Mr. Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the absence of the state in the necessary projects for the protection of Hymittos. 3. Under number 475/1-2-2016, a topical question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on "Greek olive oil and large multinationals, its placing on the market and the workers in it". 4. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniatis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the operation of the Department of Theatre Studies in Nafplio. 5. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the closure of the "SOFTEX" plant in Botanic. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 490/2/2016 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Triantafyllos Mitafidis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the abolition of the sub-paragraph in paragraph 1 of Article 1 of the Act. See also Commission Decision No 4254/7-2014 entitled ‘Deleting obstacles to retail competition — arrangements for the disposal of books’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 485/2-2-2016 by the New Democracy MP Mr Ioannis Brutsi to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the interruption of the disclosure of the information of the ‘LIOS’ system. 3. The Question by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the problems of workers at the CONTITECH IMAS SA company in the First Industrial Area (BIP) Volos. 4. The question by No 449/25-1-2016 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the "Greek Government's position regarding the question" by Turkey of our country's dominance on the rocky Imias. 5. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the progress of the projects for the development of the former airport of Greece. 6. The question under number 427/19-1-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the relaunch for this year's additional Teaching Support and Empowerment in the schools of the country. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 429/19-1-2016 of the Athens MP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the resolution of the "SAPIS" Group's problem and the determination of the time schedule for the payment of the compensation to the beneficiaries. 8. The question by No 444/25-1-2016 of the Greek MP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the changes in the administration of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue of the Ministry of Finance. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 745/38/2-11-2015 by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the stay of Kim Glen, as Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The sixth question will be discussed under number 493/2-2-2016, on the fines of the National Broadcasting Council (NSP) in the media (SMEs). The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Here, Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is a well-known matter. Very often, we are witnessing multi-faceted cases with supergae fines imposed by the National Broadcasting Council in the media. Features are the cases of the latter, if you would like, month, where the Council of State ratified two major fines at the expense of a channel totalling EUR 1,50,000, imposed by the PSE, which involved illegal lending by its main shareholder. At the same time, more than three hundred files are pending from earlier complaints and audits of the PSE. Inside these files there are fines on satiric emissions, news releases, information broadcasts, even on series, and - according to information - fines relating to the election period are also included, when the channels were orchestrated, terrorizing and propagandaing the 'NAI', which did not prevail in the end. We all remember the fine for the use of a fake photo showing a grandma in a cricket role outside an ATM. It's not funny. It was a funny picture, but it was a tragic moment and a time for publicity. Finally, another very spectacular case was this little Annie from Bulgaria. In particular, the PSE imposed a fine of EUR 30 000 for the presentation of the four-year-old girl's murder by Bulgaria, small Annie. On the subject itself, the PSE also recommended that another channel respect the presumption of the defendant's innocence. In view of the above, Mr Minister: Firstly, what is the number of fines and what is the total amount of everyone who has been imposed and confirmed by the National Broadcasting Council, both per broadcast and per radio, paper and electronic media from 2010 until today? Secondly, how many of these fines have been collected by what body? What time horizon is there expected to be collected? Please provide the relevant documents. At least our government, which has come out with a thousand difficulties both with enemies across borders and outside borders, and since we have in front of us the bill on the television licences of the honourable Minister of the Poppa, we must be strict and make a thorough check on when the fines have been charged on the channels and if they have been paid, to see what has been done for the past five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Chamber and informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, thirty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the General Lyceum of Avdirou Xanthi, as well as nine students and students and two educational attendances from the 3rd EPAL Tavrou. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, Mr Papoutsis, unfortunately things are worse than you describe in your question. We asked TAXIS to inform us of the details. We've got the answer and we'll testify to it in the Minutes for the full briefing of this House. Turns out from the information we keep in TAXIS, from 2010 to 2016 we have seven hundred ninety-four fines. The total amount of the certificate is EUR 23,332,000 and, unfortunately, only EUR 9,351,000, i.e. they owe fines to the ERR of EUR 13,981,000. These fines are a hundred eighteen for 2010, for 2011 a hundred thirty, for 2012 a hundred twenty-four and goes by saying. The year with most fines is 2013, where we have a hundred and seventy-five fines, with a total of EUR 8,133,000 attestation and a total recovery amount for the year 1,870,000. We, as the Ministry of Finance, can only receive from any body that testifies to a fine, the fine and take care of its recovery. We will investigate immediately why this has been delayed, and we will investigate immediately whether there are any responsibilities or whether there are any judicial developments on the subject and prevent these fines from being collected. In any case, the regime that existed and allowed some not to pay, stops. Everyone will have to pay, especially those who, every night from the eight or Sunday shows, shed crocodile tears and spend too many hours on the world's debts, how they pay them, while they do not say what debts they have. On the part of the question you ask about each instrument, per broadcast, per radio and others - because these are the fines of the PSE, they concern radio and television - I would like to say to you that we are bound by tax confidentiality - and we are very rightly bound by it - so we cannot say by a company what the debt it has is. We can give the sums as a whole. It is now a matter of other bodies - probably of the PSE, I do not know the legal status - to inform what the debts are per year and per channel.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Cammane, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'm amazed! We could raise the tons, and we have to. Can it be unreserved, if I understood correctly, almost EUR 14,000,000 in fines? When we're chasing Grandma for 500 euros or every Greek taxpayer, we tell him the debt, we block the bill, so the natural person can't go to the supermarket, while the legal person can't pay the payroll, the supplier and his employees, because he owes the public, is it possible to have channels that have certified fines and have not paid 14,000 euros? This state, what did it do for four years? Do we have to solve everything? Minister, we are responsible. In the good sense and with all due respect, I make you politically responsible. Fines must be collected. We will give a margin, if you want, of little doubt to see whether there are any legal claims or arbitration in relation to fines, whether there are appeals or whether there are pending legal claims or retaliations between the PSE and the channels. I would like immediately, in this month, to have the full list of what is pending in court and what is not. Because if there is no pending legality in claiming or in guaranteeing the fine, it is not possible for anyone not to pay because the IWC does not call him or why they do not block the bill for debts. I repeat that there are debts of EUR 14 million. We have four systemic channels, which are interconnected with their radios. That's well known. So we're talking about the same shareholders. How can they all work today? Let me remind the House and the honourable President of this House that we have had an indirect acknowledgement from the International Monetary Fund that in recent years there has been a involvement and involvement, to say it - not to use the other word - between the IMF and the lenders with the Greek journalists. It's not a secret. We also had journalists' statements. Mr Protender said 'I was told what to say'. There was, in other words, a direct relationship between lenders and the media. We saw what happened with the poll companies just before the elections on 20 September and 25 January. I said in a statement last week that parties were created within the House from the polls and the media that did not exist. The constant projection of people who had nothing to do with political life led them into the House. That was the creation of the media! Should I think, then, that they did not pay from 2010 to 2014 their fines, because they had a relationship with the previous governments? This should be investigated. Why were the DUs four or five years not confirmed and not collected? You'll have to do a CSR. We should see which DWO he did not receive and why, on what grounds. Why is a canalarch, who may be persecuted on other issues, beyond the issues of his television station, in relation to banks, property, landbreaking and anything else, the same person who does not pay and his fine? They're protected by someone? Was there any reason to protect themselves and not to pay? Also, because I know that you have the number, please tell us what they have not paid from ads and other taxes. Let's see centrally the tax that counted along with the fine because it wasn't paid. What's the amount? And today we see all the media coming against this government that wants to bring a regularity, laws, rules of involvement - in the good sense - of the relationship between the state, the citizen and the media. There's a clear move and a clear relationship. They must be charged and collected. I repeat and close - politically responsible for collecting these debts and finding the relationship. Please have the other number, if you'd like, so we can look at it as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Perhaps it would take more than three minutes, because, as you can see, this conversation between us will remain. We won't see her in the eight, we won't see her on Sunday show, we won't see her in a report. Don't expect there to be programmes to do research on these issues. There are other issues that need to be addressed. Of course, there must be no logic from the Ministry of Finance or from Members that we must avenge some channels for their political attitude. We are well aware of the political attitude of certain journalists and canals. We do not have the logic 'all are the same', we simply have to submit the relevant information to Parliament. So, as far as the questions you have asked, Mr Papoutsis, first of all, the evidence that I have told you is only from the PSE fines. I do not currently have any information about what they owe from income tax, VAT, fines, payroll tax and other taxes or other causes. I tabled to the House last week, but it went through the fines - I expected it to pass the fines - what it owes to television advertising. I would remind you, on the television advertising tax, of an example of interoperable political power and the media: it is a 2010 law, which was extended every year. Sometimes it was extended on 31 December by an act of legislation, proving the independence of certain SMEs and the governments at the time! So for the television advertising tax, implemented in 2015, they paid 19,228,000 euros for 2015 and owed 20,071,000 euros. I say again that we don't have VAT, income, payroll tax and other obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u9	Insurance funds, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u10	Yeah, we don't have insurance funds, we don't have all that. That's why Mr. Petropoulos will tell you about a next question. If we sum up only these two taxes, it seems that from the advertising tax and the PSE fines (which relate to channels and radios) 28.580,000 euros have been collected from 2010 to 2015 and owed 34.052,000 euros. It's a scandalous amount. I imagine there must be a duty at some point, when those tears are started, eight, and they have the living connections and so forth, to go through a film with the channel's debt, so that the viewers can also be informed of what is happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. I would say that everything you say is very right. I think you should direct the world, with a spot on TV, to ask for proof, to be consistent with this subject. Because it cannot deal with this huge problem that exists today in society, when people think that they should not ask for proof. People have to ask themselves for proof so that he doesn't have those burdens that come every once in a while and he has to pay. So I think we need to create a spot school to understand what it means not to ask and not to get proof, to understand that he pays for what he doesn't ask. Therefore - and this is my request and all the Members of Parliament - we should see this on televisions, that is, a kind of information, people understand what is happening and where we are going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u12	Yeah, but advertising will bring revenues for the TV station, but the TV station has to pay what it owes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u13	That's right, you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u14	Getting into social messages...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u15	Mandatory, though...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u16	Bombola and Alafouzu!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u17	...and in the hours of television, Mr. Nicolopole, because social messages after midnight, you understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u18	But the House must also draw up a social message. The media can't owe 34 million and teach us a democracy lesson.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u19	We proceed with the discussion of the fourth under No 480/1-2-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniatis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the implementation of the provision of n. 4162/2013 on the establishment of the “National Social Solidarity Account (ELCG)” Solidarity Fund. The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos. Please, Mr. Maniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u20	Minister, yesterday the entire Greek society, from Evros to Crete, told you with one voice, "Take back your proposal". Take back a proposal, which, if it hadn't been for such a serious matter, would constitute a badly-famous prank, would constitute a national measurable tragedy! You have tabled a proposal for insurance that eliminates those who produce wealth, the small and medium-sized order and the farmers, and at the same time leads to the despair of new generations. We tell you once again: "Take back your proposal and with openness and openness discuss with the entire Greek society, inclusive". So because the issue of insurance is the top issue of Greek society, I would like to have the clear, clear answer of the government to an issue that is both insurance and economic, but also an issue, Mr President, which is a top issue for national sovereignty and for the sale or sale of national sovereign rights. I am specific: In 2013, under Law 4162, we passed a legislative provision - which I note that SYRIZA voted against - which provided that all future revenue from the exploitation of Greek hydrocarbon deposits would go to the Solidarity Fund in order to finance the country's insurance system for the next few years, over the next few decades. This proposal was of interest to the Troika and has constantly asked us to give it an account of what is going on in the case of hydrocarbon research. We refused and there is no official document from the Greek Government about how the hydrocarbons surveys are going. For the first time, the current government raised it as a matter of the Emigration Fund. So I would like to hear the Minister's reply from now on: because this money does not belong to you, as it does not belong to the generations of sixty or seventy-seven, but is one of the generations of twenty-seven, thirty-three and forty-four, I would like to know, Minister, if your government is committed to the troika, the future revenue from hydrocarbons, which is estimated to be of the order of EUR 1.5 or 2 billion each year, to give them to the Troika or to keep them to the National Social Solidarity Fund. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I have mentioned several times, Mr Maniotis, the situation in which we received the social security system. I said it yesterday. I'll repeat it as much as I need. Since 2011, deficits have been scary and reaping every year. Since our social security system has been delivered with a deficit and weaker payment of pensions, we must make the necessary reforms to finally form a social security system in the country that has and can meet the fundamental needs of the Greek people, at that age that everyone is weak, after working life. It is well known - but it seems to me that I must repeat - that the deficits of the funds, as we have received from the start of the governance of SYRIZA, were a total of EUR 4 billion, although we have had huge reductions and, therefore, I will say it - savings in the expenditure of the funds. There were huge reductions, yet again deficits. We are aiming - and we will not give up - for all Greeks to have social security. We will not exclude farmers from the right of other Greeks. We will, of course, streamline - and I have said this again from this step, but the Prime Minister has said so - that there will be those adjustments to the system so that there are no extreme arrangements that cause a great deal of contributions to layers that do not work, such as employees. These are the layers of the farmers. Of course, they are also freelance professionals, who still have no problem, as other bodies appear to have. These are, obviously, the scientists. There is also Mr Nicholas' question and I will develop some information there too. However, I must say that it is not possible to tell us to leave things as they are and to abolish all efforts to change things, to save the funds in order to pay pensions at the end of the month, because there is no way of paying pensions at the end of the month unless this initiative of the government is taken. Finally, you must tell us what your positions are in view of the fact that this is the case. Of course, it is in no way correct - and as a distraction to me - your question about what we are going to do about hydrocarbons money, as I remember when you said at the time that we were going to have revenue instantly. You also presented the maps of the various plots in Ionian and Crete, but you know very well that the notice has not yet been issued for the interested parties to proceed with the tenders to have a licensed investigation. Therefore, there is no revenue. There has never been any decision of your own which, as the law predicted, would accompany those acts which should be followed by the law that you voted on your own initiative, but certainly also by the New Democracy. There could be no revenue - and there was no - and no decision was made by you who had the power to implement something that could certainly not be implemented. That's why you didn't make that decision. Therefore, there is not even your question in practice and in life to ask us to answer what we did from the hydrocarbons.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I have to say that after so many years in the House I have remained unsatisfactory. This is an unacceptable and incomprehensible answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u25	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u26	To say a little soft, "damage of pssatum cox." My Minister, today "KATHMERINI" and all the newspapers announce some things. I read the title "And TOTAL claims to look at the Ionian". And it is not only "TOTAL", but it is also the Italian company "EDISON", the Greek company "ELLENICA PETRELAYA", but also the Greek company "ENERGY". I was amazed to hear - obviously the Minister lives in another country - that we have not opened tenders. That's what the Minister said. Minister, last year this House passed three contracts for three plots, which were undertaken by specific companies. This House, last year, proclaimed three plots, which your Minister, Mr Skourletis yesterday, entrusted to three other companies. They were lands from Arta, Ietolarnan and Achaia. And today you are announcing that three more plots are assigned. Can I just give you a simple arithmetic? Nine land and sea plots have already been entrusted. You said you haven't started the revenues. Look for yourself! For look at why this answer is a reproach for the national Parliament. Ask your services how much money they have collected so far from already selling seismic data to the companies involved in the competitions. To be clear to each other, Mr President, in this Chamber. Mr. Minister for Social Security, three days ago, three hundred and fifty people were fired in Skouria. Yesterday the Minister of Energy signed and three maritime plots were awarded. The troika demands that we incorporate the future revenues from hydrocarbons into the Emigration Fund. It will, I repeat, be a national betrayal for the next few decades to grant sovereign rights if the Minister does not respond today that the future revenue, which the troika and the private companies look after, will not go where they are planning, but will go to the Solidarity Fund, in accordance with the law that we have passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u27	You brought the troika and you tell us now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u28	I repeat, they do not belong to any of the main ministers, and they belong to the young generations. If we don't give it to them, we're committing a leading intergenerational crime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u29	They brought the troika and now they're talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u30	Please! Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. What such passion! What such passion! Do we have an oil price? The contracts have obviously been made to carry out evaluations from now on and this whole procedure is provided for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u32	Excuse me! Shouldn't we have passion for the insurance of young people?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u33	How about you? You passion for the insurance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u34	All right, all right! All right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u35	Did you bring the troika in 2010? Didn't you bring the troika? Didn't you vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u36	Didn't we bring money? That's all we delivered to you. And you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u37	You're welcome, Mr. Maniotis and Mr. Barkas. Please don't interrupt. Do not interrupt the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u38	No, Mr President! It flies and causes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u39	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Maniot, please don't interrupt. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u41	With regard to the international competition for the granting of the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in land areas Arta - Preveza, Ioannina and Northwest Peloponnese... Allow me, Mr. Theonas. You're blocking me from answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u42	You're right, Minister. But we can't hear that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u43	Tenders have been filed. The evaluation process, which is under way and is due to be completed on 30 April 2016, has not been completed. It doesn't mean there's not been any workouts. And with what I said, I was answering what happened to the money. I have explained that neither one litre nor one barrel of hydrocarbons has been produced, nor is there such determination of what this brings, in order to determine the prices on which the amount to be paid to the insurance system should be calculated. That was my answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u44	Is that an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u45	It was not my answer that I refused and that there was a refusal to collect the benefits that could be derived from hydrocarbons. I said there isn't now. I also said that you have never adopted the ministerial decisions provided for in the law to do what is provided for in the law. And you didn't because it's not the time to do it. In this case, because the procedures are going ahead - and indeed my Ministry has sent out a document for information on the acquisition of deposits and how the whole procedure will be determined for the determination of possible revenue - when this is the case, obviously, there will also be the joint ministerial decisions planned to make this revenue from the social security system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u46	Will you transfer it to the Troika, to the Privatization Fund, or will you keep it under the law? Tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u47	Where did you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u48	Will you change the law? Are you going to give them up, or are you going to keep them in the insurance funds?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Maniotis, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Manatis, there is no reason in the country's existing problems to create fantastic risks and fantasy problems. There's no reason! In no case did we say anything about what he wrote today - I do not know why - 'Kathemerina'. Well, obviously it won't have to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u51	Yesterday the Minister signed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u52	That's it! Ask questions on the headlines!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u53	What did you say, Mr. Maniot?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u54	Yesterday the Minister signed, today all the newspapers write it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u55	Bravo! Ask questions on the headlines!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u56	This is not how we debate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, let me finish. I understand that there is an orchestra of traditional means to make it seem that the people are against any attempt at insurance reform, and at this juncture you are also throwing this in the assumption that we are going to sell out and have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u58	You mean I'm a part of this? What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u59	I mean, for the orchestration...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u60	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u61	You mean I'm a part of this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u62	You're tuned. You don't even have to consult! There's coordination and you don't even have to consult. It's automatic!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u63	Really? Tell the Skourlet who signed yesterday!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u64	We say it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Petropoulou, I'll beg you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u66	I am constantly interrupting, Mr President. What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u67	I would ask you not to have a dialogue. Say what you think...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u68	Don't say anything? But I'm interrupting, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u69	Look, the TV has affected the House with these holidays, the interferences. However, the Rules of Procedure do not allow that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u70	Yeah, but I'm the answerer and I'm interrupted. What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u71	I say don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u72	So do not make the point to me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u73	But don't answer the debate. That's what I said. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u74	To interrupt, not to the Minister, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u75	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, they understood what you said, that Mr Maniotis does not sound on television anyway. So I don't have to give answers. If that's the case, all right, I won't answer. I thought it sounded and the people should be kept informed alive. Since Mr. Maniatis isn't listening, you're right that I don't have to answer. So there is no such issue for our own government and our own government cannot be indicted for the assignment of national sovereignty and national wealth. That's all I didn't expect to hear here today. And it is certain that we will proceed - and the people will judge us for the results we will bring - in a positive way despite the appalling opposition we have from all sides with no arguments and no proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. The third, with number 473/1-2-2016, is a timely question for the first cycle of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Cassidyri to the Minister of National Defence, on "the concession of the Sindou and Schistou camps for the establishment of refugee and illegal immigrants" will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Kammenos abroad. The sixth question under number 492/2-2-2016, first question by MP, Athens, Greeks, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning the validity of the polls, is not discussed because the Minister of the Papapas accompanies the Prime Minister in London. The seventh question under number 491/2-2-2016, first question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Katsiantonis, concerning measures to deal with the phenomenon of Islamic terrorism and the risk of our country being excluded from the "visa-free programme" for anyone who wishes to travel to the United States of America, is not discussed because the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Xydakis is abroad. The third, with number 474/1-2-2016, is a timely second question for the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of National Defence, on the "commitment of the Ministry of National Defence to build a Monument in Imia" because, as we said, Mr. Kammenos is abroad. The fifth under number 487/2/2016 topical question by MP 2 Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Bardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on dealing with the problems of workers in the General Clinic "Lysimachos Sarafian" in Thessaloniki, is not discussed because the Minister is now negotiating with the Institutions. The seventh question under number 472/1-2-2016, on the establishment of the Centre for the Reservation of Refugees in Sindo, is not discussed because Mr. Mousalas states that he has committed obligations. The ninth, under number 436/22-1-2016, is a topical question of the second-cycle Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, about the "explained and unjustified increases in fuel prices addressed to the Greek consumers", not discussed because Mr. Stathakis is in negotiation today with the institutions. The tenth under number 392-12-1-2016 topical question of the Parliamentary Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Haras Kefalidou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the high charges of banks in all transactions using debt-credit cards, is also not discussed because Mr. Stathakis is in negotiation today with the institutions. So is the 11th question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKYKYKYKYKYKTHKTHKTHKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKTHKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKKYKYKKKKYKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKANkakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk For the same reason and the twelfth under No 432/22-1-2016 topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, on the "intensive" deadline for updating the files of outstanding applications of borrowers, according to the n. 3869/2010 and the timing of the provision of the detailed payment statements, is not discussed due to the fact that Mr Stathakis is in negotiation with the institutions. The first, with number 481/2-2-2016, top-stage question by MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition, Athanasios Papadopoulos, to the Minister of Health, concerning the implementation and modernisation of the necessary institutional framework, as well as the quicker response of public services, in order to provide incentives to attract clinical studies to our country, is not discussed because Mr. Xanthos says he has committed obligations. Also, the first under number 482/2/2016 topical question of the Second Cycle of MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health, on the operation of the Computer Tomographer (PET - CT) at the University Hospital of Ioannina, is not discussed due to an obstruction of the Minister. As you know, the Conference of Presidents has decided that questions which are not discussed without being resurrected, automatically resurrected, as the ministers should, in accordance with the decision, state what their real coma is. For it is a duty for the Parliamentary control of the ministers to the House, to the Greek people. They must come and answer. All these measures, therefore, have been taken to bring the ministers in and respond, when they of course can, in the sense that they are not really prevented by obligations. At this point I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the Educational Programme "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and students and an attendant of the 4th Primary School of Tavrou. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Next is the second with number 469/1-2-2016, an up-to-date question from the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Stamatis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the abolition of barren airlines. Mr. Stopatis, you have a reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you know, on 31 March the twenty-four contracts for barren lines expire. It is an exceptional treatment provided for in Regulation 1008 of the European Commission, which also lays down a very suffocating framework for the possibility of Member States wishing to introduce certain lines into this programme, to conduct the tendering procedure and the conditions under which this tender will take place. My assessment is, on the basis of these deadlines, that we are out of line. The Union of Ms Patoulis has already sent you a letter of the same concern. Would you please tell us, then, whether there is in the government's thoughts the abolition of funding, the strengthening of these barren lines, or do you have anything else in your mind? Do you plan anything else, except to cut off the remote outermost regions and in particular the islands from this process that restores isotope and iso-politics in the country and at the same time enables development in these regions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u79	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much. Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for the question. The government obviously does not intend to abolish either the barren lines or the financing of the barren air services. However, it does not intend, under any circumstances, to continue the distorting system that has existed for decades. Let me also inform you and Parliament of some facts. The barren lines cost more than EUR 45 million each year. I'll tell you some prices. This morning I entered the internet, listen to some prices, they are return tickets, you go and come to London with the Turkish airline 158 euros, with Greek airline 204, with German airline 213 euros. For Moscow 178 euros with Russian airline, 192 euros with Turkish, 261 euros with Greek, 300 euros with French. Paris is a corresponding price. It is 178 euros with Turkish airline, 198 euros with German, 199 euros with Greek. For New York is EUR 488 with British airline, EUR 546 with Italian. Now listen to what we are financing the Greek ancestral airlines and tell me if this has a logical cast: Akti - Site compensation of EUR 557.83 for three hundred and fifty-eight kilometres of flight. Thessaloniki - Skyros 419 euros for a hundred and fifty-six kilometers of flight. Cyclic: Lemnos - Mytilini - Chios - Samos - Rhodes 413 euros. Alexandroupolis - Sitia 365 euros. We must therefore proceed to an assessment if some routes from these are indeed barren. Let's say, is Thessaloniki - Kalamata, Athens - Syros, Athens - Zakynthos? We must move on to a completely different logic and calculation of the barren lines. The sizes I mentioned are per passenger seat on the plane. If the plane goes empty, we pay all the seats. That doesn't make sense. What we are planning is a radical restructuring of the barren lines, with the following criteria: The first criterion is the era. It is not even possible to islands or areas that have no movement and we want to stimulate and support air transport, to have the same compensation in the summer months and in the months that are not tourists. The second is passenger traffic. The third is the separation of the grant of the permanent inhabitants of these areas from the visitors. The fourth is the destinations and criteria we have for destinations, such as distancekilometres, the technical characteristics of the take-off runway, the population and economic characteristics of the destination, development and tourism policy, national reasons, the need to modernise airports and the now ownership status of airports. I believe - and we've prepared ourselves - to be very forward. The regions on the barren lines in need of this state aid will have no problem. Other areas, however, where such waste is observed at this time, will obviously suffer dramatic reductions and even cancellation of twenty-eight - if I see my elements of barren lines we are subsidising.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u81	Thank you. You have the floor again, Mr Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u82	I understand from your answer - and as former Civil Aviation Commander - that you are not well informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u83	I mentioned the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u84	First of all, I will only tell you that there are five barren lines which are free of consideration. And because you mentioned Kalamata - Thessaloniki, I'm telling you it's free of consideration. So when the first argument you put to me is de facto unacceptably, I realize that you are not informed. Secondly, the subject of my question was simple: what do you intend to do, given that the conventions expire on 31 March? The answer, from what I understand, is that you are studying to open new competitions after doing these analyses. This means, on the basis of the deadlines laid down in Article 17 of Decision 1008 of the Council of the European Union, that if you start the procedures after about six months, it will be possible to serve these barren lines. Until then, there is no protection of these areas. None at all. Secondly, you have read me just now a list of parameters which you will check to draw conclusions and formulate your final proposal. But I can inform you that this is compulsory for all the years that have passed. Because the framework within which it is moving, after the Alltrack case - the well-known case that created the problem - is well known to be very detailed. It is an obligation for the Member States which are seeking to subject these barren lines to the protection regime. All that you're saying is you're going to investigate has been investigated. All that has been investigated has been submitted to the European Commission, which has been approved, Minister. So what do you guys come here and say? That you will, as a government, be harder than the criteria set by the very tough decision of the European Commission. That's what you're saying. In other words, you will become king-in-laws of the king, and as you have just said straight away, they will be cut off lines, they will change the regime. So that's your answer. So two are the conclusions. First, from 31 March there will be no subsidy scheme for barren lines until the Ministry has submitted the new programme to the European Commission. This, in my opinion, will be at least six months. Secondly, not all airports will be subject to the programme you are going to submit to date. You say this at a time when the isolation of the islands has a dramatic impact on their social and economic life. [[At this point, the closing bell of the honourable Member's speech hits a warning bell.]] This is the way to deal with and you should say it very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u85	First of all, I should like to speak in the debate. I, Mr Minister, asked a similar question - not timely - after complaints by the former mayor Kalymnos that the people are concerned about what will happen in March. The issue there is particularly serious, because it is the only transport that certain airports have, so it needs to be solved. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, neither Kalymnos nor Kastelorizo should worry. They don't worry. But others worry. Evidently the line you said as well as the other two lines, Thessaloniki - Chios, Thessaloniki - Kalamata and Thessaloniki - have zero compensation, but have exclusiveity. I'll see you in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u87	That is what the regulation stipulates.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u88	No, 'that's what the regulation stipulates'. Why should Thessaloniki - Kalamata join the barren lines? Tell me about it. Why do you, both in the market and in healthy competition, want the Thessaloniki - Kalamata line to join this regime?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u89	For going from Kalamata to Thessaloniki must be two days, Minister. That's why. And the state is not charged...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u90	Is that what I told you? I say: why don't you let airlines compete with each other? Zero. Obviously, it's zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u91	Don't be misleading, Minister. There must be no tenders to do this, Minister. There must be no bids to do this. If there are offers only then the Member State can award...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Stopatis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u93	If there are no offers, how exactly can he assign...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u94	Mr Stamatis, please facilitate the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u95	I didn't say we were going to process the evidence from now on. I told you the criteria on the basis of which we have already worked out and we are completing what barren lines are barren lines and which are ruptured in airlines. I don't want to have that conversation. We have found in the Civil Aviation Service a state of misery, depreciation, a situation that is inconsistent with a European country and with the Civil Aviation Service and with a third-world country. There were no auditors, there was no modern system for...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u96	And you hired seventy-five pilots to do what, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u97	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u98	It's got two planes. Seventy-five pilots, what are you gonna do to them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u99	We didn't hire. We've brought back everyone you fired. There's more intake and redundancies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u100	But they were compensated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u101	We received derelict electronic systems, we received two planes that certified the radio aids the PSC has and were both broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u102	One was the last of the last three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u103	Last type, but broken. He wasn't flying. We've received a Civil Aviation Service...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u104	Don't talk, Minister. To speak to the MP who knows everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u105	No, speak. To speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Papadopoulos, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u107	But he should also call the Commander of the PSC the last one, he was replaced, to inform him of the situation he left the PSC. It's a great pleasure to do it. To be informed of projects that were bogged down, delays in overruns, and of what we lost as a country. On what situation the PALLAS system had. Call him with great pleasure. Publicly, we need to have this conversation about how we received the PSC and what we've been doing in these few months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u108	For the routes, the question is, Minister. If you want us to have this conversation, we can do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u109	The situation we have received were workers made redundant, workers who wake up to the insecurity of what is going to happen because of the privatisation of airports, and the rest of the airports deported and bad mess. That's all we received in the D.A. Some had scheduled these barren lines with the numbers I told you about. Let me inform you that we need to give the Thessaloniki - Corfu, barren line, Mr President, EUR 135 000 a year. Corfu and Thessaloniki have an uncivilized line! Athens - Zakynthos boasts a bourgeois line. Rainbow, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u110	Except, Minister, Athens - Zakynthos. There isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u111	This is therefore not a stimulus to the tourism of Corfu. Nor is it a service to the Thessalonians to have a line. Rusfetti to certain airlines is. This policy is not going to continue! Secondly, you know very well, as the previous government had planned, and as the country has promised, that the privatisation of fourteen airports has taken place. It is a crucial issue when we have the other regional airports that we want to modernise. We want projects to be done, the municipalities and the Union of Municipalities and Communities want projects to be done and the other regional airports to be upgraded. It is a pity, therefore, to waste 45 million a year and not to upgrade other regional airports which are now operating in a genuinely competitive environment in relation to the airports that have been allocated and not to the mess we have received. Therefore, Mr President, following the new conditions we have, the regional airports that have remained in the public sector and will be modernised and developed will actually work competitively in relation to what we have privatised. The real barren lines like those we mentioned before have no cause for concern. Other barren lines, however, that are not barren lines, are very concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. We move to the thirteenth third, with number 417/18-1-2016, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the draft law on insurance that "as is essentially formulated leads to the exit of the combatant from the profession". The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mr. Petropoulos. Here, Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u113	I am pleased, Mr President, that the presence here of the Minister allows this debate to take place in Parliament a few hours after yesterday's grand, unprecedented mobilisation of all Greeks who have formed rivers of wrath in all the cities of Greece and Athens. Minister, I think yesterday you will also notice that you achieved something that Yannitsis had not achieved, to unite everyone. But I am sure that your presence here today is coming just to give even more answers, explanations to all those who have not been to the government because they want the Vaterlos of this government and the re-enactment of a previous one, because of which we have arrived here. Minister, you belong to the fighting lawyers, and not only that, but you have been the ones who have been personally involved in all these years in all the sectors of workers when they have had similar work or insurance problems. You know very well that everyone confesss, regardless of what side they belong to, that this project targetes free professionals, lawyers, the whole scientific world. It is also confessed by colleagues from SYRIZA as many times as we have been in gatherings, such as the last one at the Technical Chamber of Greece, where all the representatives of these bodies were present. Minister, it is time for you, at least, to give the piece that Mr Katrugalos did not give yesterday in his statements that he has nothing to say. It is time, from what you have heard, at least in your protology, in your first place, to tell us that last night's message has been taken, but no more than that it is not possible, while you agree - and I honestly and not hypocritically - that the law and anxiety led yesterday to the hundreds of thousands of our compatriots on the streets, the government to attempt something that seems impossible, that is to say, and to make a deal with the citizens and make a deal with the lenders. I'm curious to hear if you think you can both do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. As I was, I will stay on the side of the wrongdoers, and so I will remain on the side of the insured, and that is what I do, Mr Nicolopoulos. Because, as I said earlier, in the previous question to which I replied, Mr Maniotis, at the end of each month, we must pay pensions and the deficit of the funds as soon as we have received the government - a cash deficit, not a proportionate deficit, i.e. the collection of funds - is close to EUR 4 billion. This is a riddle that no one can solve if it does not take steps to reform the system. You say, in your question, that our bill is not based on a spirit of social solidarity. Look at what's going on. In the same fund, which is the Single Fund of Self-Employed Workers, as you speak of lawyers, the monthly contribution of the lawyer is EUR 130, the monthly, the initial contribution of the engineer is EUR 172. The lawyer ends up being 362 euros, the engineer about 1,500 euros and the pension the lawyer receives in relation to that of the engineer is higher. Is that social solidarity? And is it really a proper way to deal with the government this year, which has social solidarity at its core and cell, to leave things like that? And when I add information for you, I think that you are putting it in good faith and I am sure that you will see what I am saying to you in good faith - the legal fund last year has had deficits of around EUR 68 million. As you speak of pharmacists in your question, the Health Fund has a deficit of about 53%. And these deficits are covered by everyone's fund reserves with the self-employed. I'll add one more thing. A large proportion of the revenues - receipts come from those who are remunerated, engineers, lawyers and doctors of the ESS, largely. If these were missing, we'd have a huge problem. This is not a situation to say that we are ensuring a system with these inequalities, with these absurd differences, which are nothing but solidarity. In fact, yesterday I heard what some farmers were saying. I would remind you that for many years farmers, since the OGA was founded, have not paid contributions. The OGA paid the pensions directly from the budget. Some twenty years now is where farmers pay contributions. I have therefore heard some farmers say 'we do not want the OGA to give the others who do not pay contributions'. This is the concept that dominates some - not everyone obviously - who is currently bailing against the government by talking about solidarity with the blogs. It's clear, I think. That category of population receiving pension without paying contributions now does not want there to be a pension for too many who are unfortunately on the margin of economic and social life. And the solidarity of generations and social solidarity in the social security system require that everyone care for a minimum of decent living. So what we are building, with the information I have told you, is rather another thing, not a lack of social solidarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes, in order to be second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u117	Minister, because you did indeed in Mr Maniotis' previous question, you were right to say that you will not say your answer tonight to the channels of the well-known pimps, you will give me the opportunity in your answer, as you mentioned in the typical example of the OGA, to say that, before this storm of neoliberalism, the political leaders of Greece and the social centre-right really did make insurance agencies, not with that logic, but they said that the farmer should get a pension. And where's he going to get from? They found out, as they found out about the ad, about the legal fund. They found out, as you said today, that you will not touch and will not hurt this Social Solidarity Fund for the new generations, when it comes to good money, which we all wish. But, Minister, with regard to the burden of lawyers' incomes with these contributions in combination with the tax obligations, when they say they are confiscation, I believe, as you have mentioned a few examples, that you deserve to see again - I am sure you have seen it - the table that I will table now, which has given to the last meeting we, the Christian Democratic Party, with them, and I believe that the tables will be accurate. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So these examples, I think, are dismantling the allegations that you have just made. That is why I think we should not go to the logic that Mr Mitsotakis has put forward as a reform, because I listened just before the reform, as I was hearing about the modernisation of the insurance system by Mr Giannitzis and I was going up with the whole world on the tiles. Minister, you know very well that we will have to choose with whom we are going and you know very well that the insurance system, when it first appeared in Western Europe after World War II, did not have those logics that the lenders are asking for today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u118	Thank you. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u119	Mr Nicolopoulos, of course, we do not join the claims and perceptions of the creditors who propose private insurance and want social security to be abolished. We are fighting with this part of Europe, with those peoples who really want to protect social security as a social good, and we are fighting this battle, with our country having the flag of this struggle right now. It is a battle that is taking place here, but for the whole of Europe. I have to say that Mr Mitsotakis in his post here, on the previous agenda in the House on insurance, has not defended any concept of reform. He talked about the abolition of all early pensions, of not taking anything, if he went out on early retirement in the past. He talked about cutting the salaries of civil servants, about cutting pensions already paid by other provisions to categories of insured persons, because they happened to receive contributions by means of provisions which might have been more favourable, as they had been shaped in other times, which had blossom economic relations in the country and high wages. But, at the moment, we are facing a huge humanitarian crisis. We meant it, when we said it, and the numbers showed it, that it is not done there in the depth of the desert that we are with a loaf of bread, some salt and a bottle of water to share with a people who are in social collapse. This is a situation that we need to deal with without patches, because it is not possible for patches. It is neither patriotic nor national nor democratic to say 'I want to keep what I have'. This, of course, is not social solidarity. And it is not possible for the political forces in the country to deal with this with an escape from reality. It's huge the deficits we took. He can't get out of this. The system that we are creating is a system of social justice and it really touches on the actual indebtedness of each Greek. I'll tell you about the free professionals, for example. 85% of the free professionals say net income below EUR 15 000 per year and that is why huge numbers of those from the area of free professionals who cannot pay contributions are available. You have asked relevant questions several times to our Ministry and I have answered you about the contributions of the free professions, how they were and how you have this information. What we are doing now brings back to the social security system the free professionals who have put together a locker. They return to social security and have pensions and health. That's what we do, and that's what no one's talking about. But the free professionals didn't go to the bars. They came out, of course, for formal reasons too, with their announcements and posters on yesterday's strike, but the debate is completely different from the one that is being held for lawyers, for example, for whom you are now asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u120	If that's the case, will he eventually survive as a new lawyer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u121	I'll answer you. Mr. Nicolopoulos, the minimum basis for calculating the contributions of lawyers is the minimum wage, that of the unskilled worker. If we cannot obtain this minimum in its own financial capacity for our lawyers, we have failed as a society. I will say this to you: The big companies that oppose the blocks and down on their streets employees to them, give EUR 150 and EUR 300 per month to these children who work for the big lawyers of the companies. They are also protesting - we have seen them before - because they will contribute on the basis of a higher amount of money received from the super-profits they generate from the work of these cracked new lawyers, and at a maximum of EUR 5.860 a month. That's the calculation. However, we must see - and the government sees it - soft transition adjustments to a new system of contributions. We have to do this - we have accepted that we have to do this, and we are operating this system today at 12 noon; there is a meeting with lawyers and engineers - but not hypocrisy. We will speak clearly with justice and fairness all of us, all the wings of this House, and the free traders. We all need to speak clearly, because this is a matter that concerns society as a whole and no one has the right to speak only on his own case, indifferent to his fellowman, about the next category of insured persons. This system also gives the opportunity to all of us together to discuss a reform that will apply and raise issues for the social development of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u122	Thank you. The fifth question under number 486/2-2-2016 is the first-round question of Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the problems of special education structures in Larissa. The Minister will answer Mr. Friends. Please, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. The question relates to specific structures of special education in the Larissa Prefecture and to the intensified and serious problems encountered by the specific structures and especially the Special Training and Training Laboratory, which, five years ago, has been relocated outside the town of Larissa to Agios Anargyroi, and this was then chosen as a temporary solution to build a new building, modern, which meets the needs of children with disabilities. The second concerns the special kindergarten and the school for children with diffuse development disorders. The special kindergarten is housed in a container, while the special school is housed in a general education school, where three rooms have been given to operate. Of course, the shortcomings are enormous here. There are huge problems in the functioning and education of these children. Of course, the relocation of both structures, namely the special kindergarten and the school, is necessary by those responsible, of course, in the region, but on the other hand, any solution to this problem is constantly postponed, despite promises and assurances in the past. And, of course, we are not talking about sub-financing these structures, we are not talking about shortages in staff and logistics. On the basis of these questions, Mr President, the Minister's question concerns what action will be taken by the Ministry so that the creation, the construction of a modern building for the Special Training and Training Laboratory and the respective School and Preschool for children with diffuse development disorders and, at the same time, the uninterrupted and adequate funding of these structures with the necessary funds from the State budget in order to meet the needs of these structures and to meet the necessary educational and support staff with a permanent and stable employment relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u124	Before I give you the floor, Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty-five students and students and four educational attendants from the 3rd Petroupoli High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, thank you, because your question, which is specific, enables me to reply in particular, but also to refer to what we have done specifically this year in the sensitive social and educational issues of special education. It is well known that we have been having difficult times as a country and that the cycle of austerity has led to school leaving the school in the last five years thirty-two thousand teachers, compared with less than two thousand permanent recruitments. This cycle is a political choice by the government since this year gradually to break and have mass appointments of permanent staff in primary and secondary education. This year we received 4,017 recruitments of substitutes and mature teachers for special education structures, while last year only 2,663 recruitments of the same special education and education sectors had been carried out. I stress this because it is a tangible example of intensified interest and priority for government policy on the subject of special education. It does not mean that everything is solved or that everything is solved. It means, however, that we are taking decisive steps to solve problems involving a world, a population of students and parents, who, in the face of the crisis, feel a double inequality, a double inequality. Especially at the Larissa Primary Education Department, eight kindergartens and sixty-three teachers were recruited in total. We also made available two thousand and six hundred five special educational staff and special assistant staff credits to cover the structures of special education and also the programmes of parallel support and school nurses in general schools on the ground. It is another practical example of interest - I repeat - to tackle the major problems of the educational crisis. In this context, in the region of Thessaly, where the structures of the Larissa Special Education you mentioned belong, there have been two hundred credits available and, as the Regional Director of Primary and Secondary Education, for the school year 2015-2016 has been fully covered - I stress - the operational needs, given the more doubling of recruitments of assistants and recruitments to specialist teachers and assistants through the relevant operational programmes, as well as the OAED's Joint Work Programme. Although we have taken this essential step - I repeat - which was a state's obligation, we are not satisfied. We are not satisfied because the staff, which has been hired and met the needs I mentioned earlier, to the extent that they have been covered, are not permanent. If the issue of permanentity is a strong element in the whole of education, especially for special education is - I would say - not without one, because the relationship between the child and the teacher is a personal relationship. The relationship of the child, who needs a special treatment, with the teacher is a deeply emotional, personal relationship. It is not possible for these children to change their teaching staff every year or wait in the middle of the year for the deputy to go to receive their training program. There must be a permanent appointment. With the programme, which I mentioned earlier, the permanent appointments by priority, and for the first time in the course of training there will be recruitment, appointments of permanent staff to special education. I have lately left the other two issues in your question, not because they are not important - they are very important - but because they are outside the competence of the Ministry of Education. The issue of school buildings is a matter which is only effectively dealt with by our Ministry. Since 2010, with the Kallikrates programme, this responsibility, which relates to school accommodation, has been transferred to the municipalities of the country. Of course, we are discussing problems in cooperation with building infrastructures and municipalities and have opinions as a Ministry. Especially for the Special Educational Centre in Larissa, Thessaly Regional Education Department submitted a proposal to integrate the creation into the Regional Operational Programme of Thessaly for the period 2014-2020. The proposal concerns the construction of a modern educational centre to undertake all the educational needs of the special education system of all primary and vocational schools in Larissa. It will include classrooms, workshops, gym, in accordance with the applicable standards. It is proposed that the CEDEFOP should also be housed in the above building. The procedure for specialising operational programmes by the managing authority of the region of Thessaly, as I know, is under way. We will also be in touch with the region of Thessaly on this issue. Last theme of your question is the transfer of students from home to school. It is clear that this issue again is not about the Ministry of Education. For the 2014-2015 school year, 2,663 recruitments of the same special treatment sectors had taken place. There were similar choices on the part of the regions. It is true that here we are confronted with general issues relating to the economic situation of the municipalities and regional authorities. We have a duty and a duty as Ministry to monitor in the new appointments the question of the ability of drivers to transport children with school buses. Finally, I would like to say to you that there is already a national and social dialogue on education reform. This dialogue will yield fruit, something that has already appeared, even though there are problems which are incomprehensible in blocking dialogue from certain groups. There is nothing for granted, something that prejudges dialogue. It is not a pretext but a real debate, which is why the reaction from some aspects is incomprehensible. Of course, the mobilisations may also be a part of the dialogue, but without the dialogue being abstracted and hampered because of them, but they can even be enriched by slogans. To conclude, I would like to assure you that the government is determined to fight for the upgrading of school and for education reform. And this work is not the task of the government but an obligation on young people. It is an obligation on the future of the country that needs to come out of the crisis and the school to be an essential institution so that we can move forward from the crisis to development. In this effort we call on all parties - and in the Committee on Morphics there have been serious efforts - to address the problems consensually, by safeguarding the ideological starting point of each side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully to the Minister. It has given us the general outline of the education policy as regards, if you like, the part of Special Education and, on the basis of the question we have tabled. In particular, Minister, on the subject of the building problem, you said or - if you wish - say about the Special Training and Training Laboratory that 'there is a proposal', that 'it will be incorporated', that 'it is going to be integrated'. And when will it be? It will be done! I have not heard anything about the other two structures, both about kindergarten and school. Your kindergarten has said to you - and in the timely question - that it is in a container, that is, in a room of twenty square feet, covered with the relevant offices, furniture and materials that children need. Note that in kindergarten there are six children, who teach, train next door. In other words, it's a tutorial. If it is possible for children with diffuse development disorders to have this approach, that is, the method of cross-teaching, side by side! This is an example. The same goes for elementary school. But you have not answered what will happen. And here we are facing the deadlocks of the policies implemented with the responsibilities, which you say there is this co-existence and the question of who is responsible, the municipalities, the regions, the state, etc. These are the creations of this policy, which you are continuing to do. You mentioned the "Kallikratis" and the transfer of the burdens of the state through the municipalities, where the broken people and children of Special Education, in infrastructure, buildings, etc. You mentioned the effort you are making to fill gaps with substitutes, etc. You also referred to the emotional bonding of children to teachers. That's right, we don't disagree. But the five months are over. What's gonna happen? With eight months and five months, are we even going to these kids? Not that we say it should go on in the other schools. However, in these structures such work relationships exist, with what this implies for these children and their education. The fact that at the moment they are spending sixty, seventy and eighty kilometers went - come some kids to go to the Special Training Laboratory - what is mentioned in the question - is forbidden and there is evidence of this. Parents don't let their children go. See that they are children of socio-economic strata with unemployed parents, with low-wage parents, with parents who have no lunch to give them. That's why we put in and the need for lunch, the need for medical treatment in the school field. If you also make a visit not only to this structure but to others, you will see that the specific structures that we are talking about in the question are - if you want - a sample of what prevails throughout the territory, possibly to a greater, smaller or lesser degree. This situation will continue, Minister, unless brave measures are taken. And we say 'yes' to state funding, to create infrastructure based on the needs of each region, to meet the needs of the children. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of Parliament is ringing at this point.]] Look at the evidence, you've got it, we've got it, as far as the kids are concerned. How many children, for example, don't find or go to such special treatment structures? Too much! Why? It's a thousand two reasons. Now we don't have time to analyse them. Who will advise, who will try to convince parents that these children should join such structures, be trained, so that tomorrow they can respond to the basics? What's going to happen in the process after years? See that in this matter, in the first structure, in the Special Training and Training Lab, children are being trained 15 to twenty - two years old. Then what about these kids and where are they going? And what training are we talking about now? There's no training! From the sections that have been created there, in particular craftsmanship, gardening, agriculture, the self-help workshop, nothing works! Why? Because there are no spaces! When is this going to happen? Tell us specifically, Minister! We want a commitment! This cannot be expected by the NRP, which bodies will consult until it reaches 2026, because that is evidenced. Because if it is about other issues, about other types of investment, the cranes are opening up and funding is running. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Parliament is repeatedly ringing at the end of the speech bell.]] But, for such structures as the people need, do the children of our people, who should be on priority, forgive me, but the needs of our people are sacrificed, so that state funding and the money of the ESDP can be channelled - where? - to entrepreneurs who want to invest in such structures, i.e. in the field of education - if you like - and in special treatment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u129	Mr Colleagues, from what you have said and from what I have said earlier, there is a wide scope of agreement and consensus on points of view and objectives. The aim of the upgrading of education is common and the general interest in special education is a matter for the public. Of course, we cannot create an institutional framework of ours, so that, automatically, it overthrows the procedures and funding that exist today. I repeat that the veterinary problem is a matter facing the municipalities, transport from the regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u130	The municipalities say weakness!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u131	Wait a minute, Mr. Comrade! And the state states weakness! Is that how we're going now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u132	Oh, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u133	Anybody gonna declare weakness and throw the ball at each other? Let's talk about it, see what problems there are, especially in building matters. There is the regional programme to which we have referred. If there is seriousness in addressing these demands and not in discussing and referring to problems in the future - you know them in the regions too, it is not just the central state that has problems - if there is such a problem, we could have faster solutions. And now we can have solutions. And from what I hear, there is a serious effort on the part of the region to tackle this Larissa issue. However, speaking on the subject, you have raised serious questions which the Ministry is also concerned with and which, in our view, lead us to the need to develop a new institutional framework for special education. The framework that has been established today - with the problems we do not hide them - is a framework that is largely behind the current educational needs of children with problems. That is why, as a Ministry, we are trying to get through to the institution of cohesion and inclusion, an institution that is necessary. It does not prejudge the future abolition of all special schools, but no school can be created - ghetto. Today, unfortunately, special needs schools are being created which separate children from the rest of the formal education. I'm not talking about heavy cases. I am referring to cases where they constantly give the impression that'school produces disability'. Hundreds of children every year, with opinions given, are considered to be unable to go to the typical school and have to go to other schools, have a special support, etc. Therefore, on the basis of today's modern educational perception, we are planning the institution of follow-up and inclusion of children in special education to a large extent at the typical school. For three reasons this, in addition to others, is important: First - first, because these children, I repeat, will not go separately from the other children to schools, which often end up being ghettos. Instead, we incorporate them into school, in formal education, so that these psychological and mental stimuli of the rest of the children, the other students, will also have these stimuli. Secondly, school is the main social reference area in children's lives and should not be far from home. What you mentioned is right. Whatever you put, and helicopters to put, when the school is 70 kilometers away, it's another life for the child out of his residence. So we need to move towards the inclusion of a large category of disabled children in the schools in the neighborhood, and I repeat, with specific predictions, not like this. Thirdly, the formal development students, the children we know, most of all, in the schools we are going, must be understood by young people that they live in an environment with people with disabilities, and so we will also fight other types of prevention and problems. This means that the institutions of integration in schools must become genuine institutions of integration and support must not be the child's personal teacher, but the functioning of the school. Repeat: We haven't discovered the wheel. In much more advanced education systems in other countries, we have made progress in what we call "education of inclusion and co-responsibility". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, too. We move to the fourth with number 476/1-2-2016 topical question of the second cycle, the Deputy of Serres of the Democratic Association Mr. PASOK - DMAR Mr. Michael Jeleighis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the connection of the Prefecture of Serres with natural gas. The Minister will answer Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on the occasion of the disclosure on the part of the IPDP and in particular of the CEO, Mr Kitsaku, of the plans for the expansion of natural gas networks in areas that were not connected with natural gas, I put this question to the Council - more than 15 years old - a request from the prefecture to connect the prefecture to natural gas. As we know from Serres Prefecture, the gas pipeline from the Balkan countries passes over 80 km. Serres Prefecture is the natural gas metering station - and it is also integrated to upgrade - and yet the county has no connection with natural gas outside the Sugar Industry and the General Hospital of Serres. It is necessary to link the prefecture to natural gas in order to improve the living conditions of citizens, but also to improve the functioning of enterprises in relation to competition from neighbouring states, low VAT and low labour costs. However, due to the low temperatures in Serres Prefecture, it is necessary to reduce the energy cost of connecting the county, business and households with natural gas. Besides, Serres Prefecture is last in terms of the country's GDP. It remains close to 1.6 billion in relation to the country's average GDP. On the occasion of all this, I tabled this question, because in the original design we see that Eastern Macedonia, Thrace and Central Greece are again the priority on the part of the DEPA, with a timetable for the implementation of the pipeline expansion plan in these areas, which are not connected with natural gas, in 2018. I ask, Minister, what the intentions of the ministry are and what action can and must be taken so that the central Macedonia can also be a priority, but in particular, the Serres Prefecture can be linked to the gas pipeline which, as I said, is perpendicularly crossing the prefecture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Skourlett has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. The picture as you described it, Mr Jelloney, is exactly that, that is, more than ten years' delay in the development of the natural gas infrastructure in Serres Prefecture. Of course, I am impressed by how you have drawn such a conclusion from the recent presentation on behalf of the PPC of its projects. The great difference in the period that we are now living with is that there is a strategic choice both from the government and from the PPC - that is what Mr Kitsakos said - so that there will finally be growth within the country, that there will be a development of gas infrastructure. The Serres Prefecture has joined such a design as I know. Already there is an existing network of thirty miles [30 km]. The newly adopted laws, Laws 4336 and 4337 of 2015 allow the development of the network without requiring private operators to participate in the new investment projects as a precondition. It is therefore planned to extend the network within the town of Serres, fifty-seven kilometres long. So it is rather a lack of good information that will be due to what you have said, that there is no design of the PPC for the extension to the law, especially the city of Serres. From there on, I would like to tell you that expansion cannot always be done in the traditional way, with pipelines - networks. There are other ways. There are stations that will be created and there will be use made and transfer to large energy-intensive customers. The sure thing is that we have entered a new era now, during which the development of the internal network, the priority of gas penetration, as much as possible in the majority of the population at affordable prices, is our main objective and on this basis we are moving. Apart from what we at the same time do, as you know, which is the attempt to transform the country into an energy hub and on the issues of natural gas, you know that there is now more than an advanced stage planning for the TDI pipeline. This is about your county too. It gives a new perspective and opportunity, beyond the geopolitical and strategic value of the project, to see now how we can make use of this infrastructure for Greece as well, which is expected to start from spring this year. I would therefore like to say to you, and to end with this, that there is the huge issue of financing these networks, which we are debating at the moment. The effort being made is to integrate these projects into the NRP 2014-2020 and this is where the main role is to be played by the Region of Central Macedonia, which also has the responsibility to promote these projects. So we are talking about projects that will also be co-financed by the NSRF, both from the company's own funds and from lending. I think that's the image and it's a positive image in every case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u139	Minister, as I have pointed out, it is a 15-year-old request. In 2006, with Minister of Development, Mr. Soufas, they had become almost inaugurated by the gas supply company in Serres Prefecture. It's all right. In 2013, we had an announcement again that the county is connected with a gas company based in Serres. The result: A strategic investor has not been found to enter, along with the region, and to bear the cost of the networks. Just because I know the laws you voted on, I wanted to be clear about the need to connect Serres Prefecture to the gas pipelines. And if a private investor is needed again, to connect the county with natural gas to the networks in terms of funding in cooperation with the region, nothing will happen. If it is the region's responsibility and participates in the cost, we need to know that, so that we know who is responsible for not carrying out any more project, which is, if you want, not just necessary, but a project that will mark the further economic survival of the county. As I see your sensitivity to the border region of the prefecture, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this task of expanding with the fifty-seven km of natural gas network does not remain on paper again, as I said to you that it was done the previous two times, and at least today, since the necessary actions are already being taken and the fields are being expropriated and we have a great process in the prefecture in terms of transit and TAP. The Serres Prefecture currently has smaller subsidies in relation to the integration of projects into investment programmes and in relation to the neighbouring prefectures. I told you about low temperatures. I told you about competition from neighbouring states. There is no other way the county will stand unless it is connected directly. And here I will ask you and the timetable, and the region must state when. Because the intentions are good, but, unfortunately, the way to hell is with the best intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, too. Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u141	I see, Mr. Jelloney, you're talking on the basis of your experience. I'll excuse you. So go tell the Serres that for 15 years the previous administrations of the DEPA and the governments have been kicking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u142	I have no problem saying it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u143	Go and say it and say it together. Come with me. Let's go. I like your county. So come and say that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u144	We invite you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u145	For we have heard great ideas and great projects and yet the previous administrations - and not only the governments - made public relations with this company. You know, when there's a small network inside the country, it means higher prices. The key to falling prices is to have new customers. In order for there to be new customers, the network must be extended in all possible ways. This is a crucial issue, and that is why we are moving in this direction that I have told you before. I referred to the specific laws that we voted on. They, as you rightly pointed out, give the possibility - and I repeat - of extending the network and creating local distribution companies without having to be private. Because you have seen that, since that was a condition, no one has come to invest in this sector because of the crisis and the reduced demand. So we also need to see the possibility of a more flexible business and investment so that the network can expand, in a form of fuel, which is, indeed, more environmentally friendly. However, you have also spoken of a question of competition with the neighbouring countries. That is right, and it is at the will of the Government and the Ministry of Energy, and we are actually making a very valuable effort in dialogue with the energy industries to see how we can reduce costs, which obviously affect the competitiveness of businesses. In fact, you would see that only yesterday PPC's administration took a very big step, announcing discounts of up to 10% to commercial customers, to companies that consistently fulfil their obligations, even those that had been set up and regulated. This is also a step which strengthens the competitiveness of enterprises from its own point of view. But let's get to the wider issue. Watch out. You should not compare - and the service is not really offered to Greece and to your county - the growth model with that of Bulgaria. What does that mean? Are we going to compete with wages and tax regimes? This means further deterioration for workers, for the state, which will reduce revenues. Greece must have as a model a productive model that is competitive, but at the same time it will be competitive not by compressing insurance costs, the cost of wages, which we have done and led nowhere. It cannot be compared, in other words, with countries with huge deficits in social security, social welfare and workers' pay issues. Greece must be competitive, being capable of making reliable products which have their own characteristics and are able to infiltrate the European and global markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u146	We move forward with the debate of the eighth under number 478/1-2-2016 topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the implementation of the plans of the Public Gas Company for the supply of natural gas to Patras. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, you will allow me, because I was present at the previous time's question from the Communist Party to the Minister of Education, as a father of a child who is in the range of autism and because I heard the Minister's position, to say that whoever is outside the dance knows many songs. I am sorry that Mr Philis is missing, but his whole position is far away from the problems these children face with the many disturbances that my colleague said. Mr Minister, we from Achaia are much more optimistic today than I have heard of the Serres' call for a good colleague. And we are more optimistic, not because for the first time we heard the good news brought by the CEO, Mr. Kitsakos, through the newspaper "POPOPONNIS", but because we have now accepted much earlier promises than we heard just before from Prime Ministers to the last, from George with the "green development", which remained in the green horses. Of course, we are more optimistic, because you said, in reply to my fellow Member, that they have changed a lot of those data that have created obstacles intact for the whole region and, in this case, for western Greece, Achaia and Patras, and today I would ask you to provide some more information, and to confirm what was important in the newspaper I mentioned to you, "POPOPONNISOS", which was officially placed both by the Department and by the Ministry and congratulate everyone. There is no reservation from the institutions that they will work with all the means they have, whether they are the region or the other bodies, this great effort. We did not come here to ask for what we were surprised to hear just before the Minister for Infrastructure. We did not come to ask for a barren line between Kalamata and Thessaloniki, because Kalamata happened to have a Prime Minister there and make prime minister Rusfetti. But we have come to ask for this self-evident thing, which all the governments and all the ministers accept, but to date has not happened. Now, then, it seems that the liberalisation of PPA for the construction of natural gas distribution networks has been possible, through the change in the legislation you have said, and we are, as you know, in the premeditated phase. We have very specific terms and uses for broad social reference issues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, allow me, because I may not have to answer for a second. Besides, the Minister was placed just before. Minister, you know - but it is good to hear at this time, which comes as if the neoliberal reformist Mr Mitsotakis were bringing something new - that some decades ago electricity at every corner of the Greek territory had no need for economic arguments. Then Constantine Karamanlis and the others did not say whether the investment came out or not, because he still wouldn't have taken the power to any village. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] As it was then that the development of infrastructures had been decided to produce sweet fruits and indeed those investments, so today I believe that you too must take the quick steps to implement what the President of DEPA announced, because otherwise, if there is not this state intervention by Constantine Karamanlis and stay on the criteria of neoliberal, "neo-foot-talk" preachers, the gas will never come to Patras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u148	Thank you. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. I am glad to see the anti-neoliberal antibodies that you have and which I agree with. Many of the elements of my answer to your current question have already been heard, because it was a similar question to that of the previous colleague, in relation to the strategic goals and objectives of the PLO and the Government. You are right now to say that the new institutional framework does not create obstacles. From there on, especially for Patras, as far as you know - and we must not just confirm that, but also do more, which has already begun to do - there is provision for the supply in the form of LNG, of liquefied gas. We must, of course, say something self-evident. The third city in Greece cannot be denied the possibility of using natural gas. That is completely unorthodox. Honestly, the responsibilities of those who planned them so far are very great that they did not incorporate exactly in their plans Patras. You realise the great potential for development within the city itself and how much this would enable consumers to have more reliable and cheaper services. However, this extension would now lead, as we have said before, to a fall in the price of the service itself. In particular, it is for Patras to set up a storage station within the port. You may know that there have been consultations with the President of the Port Authority of Patras and from there we will see the question of extension into the city and the transport of tankers to large energy-intensive consumers, whether they are in the industrial area or in the greenhouses, so that the use of natural gas can now become a reality. A study has already been launched together with the Technical Chamber of Western Greece and the Region of Western Greece, and the PPA, which is estimated to be ready in April 2016. So I think that, having seen the issues of network length, the number of new customers, the predicted volume of gas that will be demanded, and of course the cost of manufacturing, we have all the elements, so that we can again, I repeat, through lending, through the same participation of the PPP, with its own small funds, but also funding through the NSRP 2014-2020, to begin. The original design is the project to start in 2017 and to be completed in 2021. I think this is all realistic and necessary. I think that you and I will also have the opportunity to see them and to be the headline for even greater such development and initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Nicholas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u151	Minister, it may not have been necessary, as I had predicted, for the confirmation you have made today in this official way through this House is enough for this first stage. I would like to say to you that those who are watching - and I know from the local press that they are watching - today's debate from the Parliament's channel - and journalists and also all those who are interested, who are now struggling to see this dream come true - I imagine they are as satisfied as in the past few days, since they have welcomed the initiatives you have taken. I just wanted you to tell us whether, in addition to the NSRF, as you said, or the many things that the DEPA has to make available to us, that is to say, with a percentage in funding - you are actually studying the connection between households and the urban network, and whether the Juncker package, as has been said at these meetings, can indeed offer another amount which will then be judged how much that and what the need for participation from that financial instrument will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u152	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u153	First of all, I will tell you that great potential for financing the project is given through direct lending by the European Investment Bank. We have already done so in other cases, for example for IPTO. I am referring to the well-known IPTO, which has dealt with us all this time and which we have successfully managed and resolved the issue of its publicity. Projects are therefore under way, which are lent exclusively by the European Investment Bank. In a similar way, we see the lot of money - so to speak - to take it out of the form of this loan. And there's already such a process. Now I imagine that with your question you are now implying the possibility of creating incentives and some kind of subsidy now to the consumer, when the network is now beginning to enter the city to connect, to burners and others. This is anticipated in cases - such as, for example, there were the previous space for cities, but gas - through the 'Economy' programme. We believe that in about spring we will be able to reboot it. Unfortunately, there have also been huge responsibilities of the Ministry's previous political leadership, because it has not done the necessary preparation, so that we can be clear about the heresy which the European framework sets out, so that we can relaunch this programme. It is a programme of which part concerns burners. In particular, it concerns other issues, which are related to energy savings and therefore the smallest need for gas or other fuels. I believe, however, that we are on a good path. We will exhaust all possible means, so that we can be okay with the Achaeus, the inhabitants of the third largest city, because, I repeat, it is unthinkable that so far they have not been able to access natural gas. Be aware that it is one of the priorities of the Ministry and we are at your disposal to answer any questions, but also to make your joint planning with you, but also with the other Achaea MPs - I see some here - because I repeat that it is now a strategic choice. And, mostly, when we talk about a city like Patras, it is now a matter of recompense. When you do this investment, you get things back. You are strengthening businesses, strengthening the industries that exist and you can provide cheaper services to consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u154	Thank you too, Minister. Next is the second with number 470/1-2-2016, a topical question of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on delays in the liquidation of payments of the single payment to Greek producers. The Minister will answer Mr. Apostleu. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I wonder how you felt yesterday when the whole of Greece came out on the streets, protesting about the looting insurance plan, talking about Argentina and about the helicopter that will get you out of here. And I wonder... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Didn't that happen, ladies and gentlemen, and it bothers you? So I wonder how you felt when the - up to now selected member of your parliamentary group and, of course, President of Parliament - Zoe Konstantopoulou shouted the slogan 'to see in the helicopter, Alexis, who will come in!'. Of course, I was surprised I didn't see you protest...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u156	Are you condemning the violence from wherever it comes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u157	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u158	We have made statements and our views, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of violence are well known. Will you give me some time, Mr President, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u159	For the chopper?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u160	I wonder how you did not go out against the tombstones, which you made a press release a few months ago, and today, of course, you are defending and implementing them. Would it not, of course, make me a big impression, because what political consequence does a government have six months before giving farmers everything and today simply tell them 'fortunates'? The farmers, then, Mr Minister, do not know what to demonstrate first! It is now February 5th and you have not paid them all the single payment, which was traditionally paid in December. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] I know it's annoying what I'm going to say. Meanwhile, you know, mocking continues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u161	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, we cannot ask the timely question. It's not enough that you misled the farmers and farmers that you'd pay them. You remember the well-known statements that 90% of the single payment would be made in December. Furthermore, you have misled the Prime Minister himself, who came here talking about the insurance plan and boasted that you paid 90% of the subsidies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So tell the truth! You paid 1,000,000 of the total 2 billion and six hundred eight thousand producers, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u163	You're inaccurate!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Colleague, let me develop my timely question!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u165	Don't say inaccurate, though!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u166	...you paid the five hundred sixty-four thousand, eighty-three thousand less producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Arachovite, the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u168	And you come with second reassurances and say you will pay within February. And with new statements you say about April. Will, Minister, be able to carry out the checks? Because we hear there are fourteen with fifteen thousand objections per county. I have here a letter from the OPEKEPE Workers' Association, which is addressed to the Prime Minister at very dramatic tones, and it very simply says that, due to a lack of staff, they will not be able to carry out the checks, so that the farming world cannot be paid and the organisation will be certified. Tell us the truth clearly and clearly: When will you pay the whole, the rest of the single payment to all beneficiaries? Now in February, April, next year?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u169	All right, Mrs. Arabatzis, you have a second. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u170	Tell us, Minister, and when you will pay the debts of 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u171	Mrs. Arabatzis, I will wait for your dentistry to tell me if you welcome or disapprove of the motto you mentioned! From that point on, however, the question of the Communist Party of Greece and many of the things you put it will be discussed there. One thing I want to say to you: you know that we have had a new CAP, which brought new rights. You know that because you have voted for this whole framework for implementing the new CAP with the three regions, which creates problems not only at national level, but throughout Europe. You should know that Greece is one of the first countries to pay rights, and even too many countries have not paid. This must also be understood to the Greek people. However, we have paid first from the European Union, because we are talking about a new CAP. You know that there is the regulation, which says we are now paying basic support - we paid 90% - in the next phase, we will pay greening, 30% to 35% - in the spring - and, of course, in June we will pay the remaining 10%. That was not our decision. We did not agree on the conditions. You two co-decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u172	That's the tactic! Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u173	I would like to point out specifically for farmers, who really have no problem, that this is the first time after many years that our country has no financial correction. We did the job well, and we will not have a fine of EUR 320 to 350 million, which we had every year on the issue of grazing management. That's the situation. Of course there are problems. Maybe even mistakes. We have all said this because it comes from the application of a new regulation. I say to you very simply that young farmers have lost their rights, because they have rented their parents' fields, and that was not foreseeable. We will resolve this particular issue. As we will resolve the big issue you are saying, that is, so many have not been paid. But, from the time they got rights under 250 euros over sixty thousand farmers in the first phase - that's what the regulation said - they won't come in. However, in greening, which is the second phase, the corresponding amount will be added. So we'll also see these sixty thousand farmers get backup. So we're watching things. And keep in mind that we have also set up a group. Of course, there are objections. Farmers themselves are asking for an extension of objections. We accept that, because there is indeed a problem. However, to know for themselves that, as long as they are late to submit their objections, there will also be a corresponding delay in payment for the simple reason that the rights as a whole are being examined from the outset. Others, then, ask for responsibilities, because we are consistent. I repeat, however, that I ask for your answer to what you said, starting with your prototype. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u174	Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, you ask the New Democracy for self-evident: to condemn slogans that we have never adopted and which we have traditionally and historically condemned. The unpleasant thing for you, of course, is that these slogans were not ejected from the New Democracy side, but from your own, ex-comrades. Because you said that every time there is a problem with the new CAP, for rights and all that, I will remind you that in 2007 the New Democracy, which was then ruling and was new CFP, had paid 98% of the single payment six months ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u176	There is no single payment. It's changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Papadopoulos, what kind of behavior is this? He's the Minister here. He'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u178	Please! You don't think your Minister's justly represented by you, who's answering?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u179	Please, Mr. Papadopoulos! Don't hold a dialogue, Mrs. Arabaji. You're addressing the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u180	I am speaking here, Mr President, but here we are not left alone. You said, Minister, that we are one of the first countries to pay our rights on time, at least the advances. Unfortunately - and I will give for the Minutes the relevant document - we are here too, because all the Member States, on 31 December, have paid almost all the single payment, from 90% to 95%. Only Poland has paid close to 40%. I'll put it in the Minutes, not to mention inaccurate here, Minister. Now, the essence is that with your insolence of all these past months and unprecedented delays - you will remember, because we talked about the definitive rights ten thousand times - you have actually brought economic asphyxiation to the primary sector. You derailed the financial planning of farmers, who, as householders, knowing that they will get their money in December, made their financial planning. What do you mean? To pay their insurance contributions, to pay their suppliers, feed, fertilizers, seeds, rents from their fields possibly and to live at last. And you come, you don't pay them the money owed, they also have the capital controls - the next suffocation - and you put them in new obligations. What are the new obligations? In 27.5%, 55%, the increase in production costs by reducing excise duty and increasing VAT on all agricultural services - supplies, etc. - 13% extra tax on agricultural subsidies. I wonder, Minister: will farmers pay airly cut? And instead of going out and asking for an apology, your government ministers - and there is no denial to date - say the farmers 'dangers', 'farmers' and'motivators'. So I wonder, and I want to hear it: Do you share these statements? Not to say, of course, about the flagship of your paramilitary press "AGEI" and the posting he made in social media and actually urged farmers to go to Bulgaria, which has no subsidies. Of course, I will not comment on whether HUNGARY knows that the European Union is Bulgaria. Do you condemn this, Minister? Instead of countering the massive exodus of capital and professionals, such as farmers in Bulgaria, which is a bleeding for Greece, you are already urging them? And because there is a lot of talk, Minister, - I hear you say to various questions - about the largeness of the pie in the rural area, about the agricultural strategy, etc., I would very much like you to realise that 900 million of the previous rural NSRF remain unpaid, which in the seven months of the 'excessive negotiation' have been frozen. Minister, it is 900 million that will be removed from the EUR 4.7 billion of the second pillar that we inherited you. And I want you to tell me: Because there is EUR 1.2 billion of national participation, what is your Ministry planning this year for the rural NSRF?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u181	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, since there is going to be a substantial debate later on on a lot of what Mrs Arabaji is constantly repeating - it is what we say 'has learned about it' - I would like to say this: Watch out, it's the air you're talking about. Because air is unscrupulous what we are doing is not. We paid EUR 2 billion in December in the rural area, EUR 1.7 billion in aid and at the same time outstanding as 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u183	From the single market, you paid them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u184	Who have created all these difficulties, a delay of 700 million over the years to be paid? You, your governments!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u185	Fixed tactics!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u186	So let's get things straight. We have a programming, we have a follow-up, and at the same time we have as a basic goal to raise the pie. According to data from EUROSTAT - because we will then see you later in the debate on the question -12.1% of agricultural income increased in 2015. Yes, 12.1%! That means we're increasing the pie. So we are always consistent in our words and keep in mind that we are always approaching reality. I would, however, like to give you some advice, if you really want to help the farmers, your farmers in Serres, can you show us that video of your own station, in which it seems that they are leading and directing incidents in Serres at the expense of SYRIZA, so that the House can also see and be informed, and the Greek world can also be informed who are creating these situations?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 16/11/22-1-2016 by the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas and the MPs of his party, Mr. Alekas Papagiga, Athanasios Vardalis, Ioannis Giokas, Ioannis Dellis, Garyfalias (Lianna) Kanelli, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, Christos Katsotis, George Lamproulis, Diamonds Manolakos, Nikolaos Moraitis, Athanasios Pafili, Konstantinos Steriou, Emmanouil Synthakis and Stavros Tassos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the problems of the agricultural sector. Before I give the floor to the honourable Member, Mr Nicholas Moraitis, to announce: During today's debate, the Communist Party of Greece designates as Parliamentary Representative Mr Diamanto Manolakou as a Member of the European Parliament. Golden Dawn designates as Parliamentary Representative Mr.Mr.Mr.Mr.Mr. The Independent Greeks appoint Mr Georgios Lazaridis as a Parliamentary representative and SYRIZA appoints Mr Stavros Arachovitis as a Parliamentary representative. The European Parliamentary Representative, George Amyras, is appointed from the River as a Parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u189	I too, Mr President, from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u190	Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. We also welcome from this step yesterday's grand strike gatherings of workers, poor farmers, professionals, young people, scientists throughout the country. They set up a large-scale populist labour block in the attack on the government, the European Union. We particularly welcome the struggles of the poor farmer from Crete to Evros, who set a block in anti-agricultural policy. This rural upsurge is a struggle for survival, it is a struggle against the European Union's policy, the coup d'assurance, the middlemen, the monopolistic groups that break the sweat and their fighting. They counteract the CAP's policy that is spreading poverty, impoverishment, the policy that is brutally extinguished, massively, from their lands, their production. Minister, in our party's question, we have attached you to a press release from your Ministry - June 30, 2015 - on what you said just before the referendum: You said that the measures - which are the same - would be a graveyard for the poor medium-sized farms. What you were saying at the time, Mr. Apostle, is 80% of the demand for the block. Listen, gentlemen, what you were saying just before the referendum and what the lenders were asking for. Simulate farmers' taxation with free professionals, increase the rate from 13% to 26%, increase the advance payment of the tax from 27.5% to 100%, abolish the refund of the oil tax for farmers, reduce the subsidy, triple the OGA contributions, increase the VAT on agricultural means and supplies. That is exactly what you described then, Mr Apostleou, tombstone for poor medium-sized farms. That's right in the roadblocks talking about political liars. The country's poor, medium-sized farms years ago experiences the impasses of anti-agricultural policy, of the CAP, which all Greek governments and European parties have co-decided and implemented. They are dead-ends that grow with the memorial tombs of the capital parties, the governments of urban management, which are tools to speed up the removal of poor farmers, farmers and fishermen. With the third Memorandum SYRIZA came to give the graceful shot to the poor medium-sized farms. It comes as a roller to dismantle what the previous governments have not been able to demolish, the previous memorials. You started the anti-grassroots, anti-agricultural policy from where the previous ones left it. You left all the anti-linguistic arsenal intact and intensified the attack on the wide popular layers of cities and the countryside. And all this on the altar of competitiveness, the profitability of business groups to concentrate wealth, production, land on less hands. For the farm, you're bringing a tax raid - a storm. You are maintaining the taxation voted by the New Democracy - it was protesting just before Mrs Arabatzi - from 13% to 23%. But you're going out and calling farmers a tax. But you know that taxation is not done in real income. Let go of the lies, the chalice, as the farmers say. You tax them with proof of living. In other words, if they have a car to take their family to the doctor, if they have a home to put their own family in and if they have made the sin have had children, then they are taxed at 12,000 from the first euro. Now you're going to take the tax to 20% and 26%. You ask them, Minister, to pay a tax deposit of 100%. We ask here: to pay an advance when they do not know if they will produce next year, when they do not know if they will have the next year planting and livestock production? They are exposed to weather conditions, to the anti-agricultural policy that responds to speculation by the big traders, who take the crop at low prices every year and below, when the payout of the big traders takes an increasing proportion, when the tax collector who characterizes does not compensate them for the damages. This was done last year, Mr. Apostleu, when the blue fever set the flocks all over the country. Thousands of farmers have not taken one euro despite the fact that you yourself have assured them that they will be compensated. You say with a lot of nerve that you care about the development of the primary sector, that you are aiming to reduce production costs, you who in the summer, as I mentioned, took VAT from 13% to 23% on the means and supplies used by farmers and farmers: fertilisers, pesticides, veterinary medicines, processed feed, seeds. You gradually abolish the refund on agricultural oil, you have duty-free oil for shipowners' boats, but you do not have the tractors for the farmers. You're reducing the VAT return. Although farmers pay 23%, you return them only 6%. You taxed wine in the summer and you lead to the disappearance of small wine producers. Your tax policy is to be added to the ENPI tax rate in the rural housing, warehouses, mandarins, fields, pastures, the carpets of ELGA, in the carpets for the activation of UCLAF's rights. They know very well the farmers who put them in Mr Salla's teeth, in the predators of the associations that squeeze them, who pay for the activation of up to EUR 500. That's what you said, Mr. Apostleu, that you're going to remove them. That is why you are abolishing the refund of the tax on oil. Increase irrigation current for water supply. You increase the money they pay for the licenses of the stack facilities. Also, in thousands of farmers you retained all subsidies for public debt. We ask that there be irresponsible and retrospective power. This is what farmers are asking for since 7 December, which was the advance payment of the single payment. You are driving with this policy thousands of small and medium-sized rural households into bankruptcy, absolute poverty. Here comes the new CAP 2015-2019, for which all of you celebrated. It is going to further reduce the subsidies of poor farmers to give it to a few. Already today 80% of subsidies are received by 20% of the big farmers. Those who say the consistent movement of the JRC should be taxed with 45%. That is why we say that the Memorandums, the CFPs, are tools, sharp steep strays that reap small farmers. With the plan - an abortion for the insurance of farmers - there is a triple of the insurance contributions to the OGA, which will lead the poor farmer to remain all uninsured without medical care, without vaccines, farmers' children. Do you know that today 50% of farmers are uninsured? And this figure in poor regions of the country reaches 70% -80%. Think if there is a triple of contributions, who will be able to pay? None of the poor middle-sized farmers. And leave here the various tricks, the equivalents you were saying in the election, that you would allegedly carry the burden on the non-professional farmers. It is his policy "divide and reign" to break apart farmers, so that your agricultural policy can go through. You're shaking the unity, the alliance with the other popular layers. Now let's see that story of yours too. Who are the non-domestic farmers? Who are those who hide wealth? As I mentioned there, you'll find the equivalents. They're the most impoverished. They are the ones whom the policy of the New Democracy, the PASOK, the CFP has led them to unleash. It is this policy that you all serve. He kicked them out of production. They did not stand up to anti-agricultural policy on the one hand that fires production costs and, on the other, reduces product prices for the benefit of intermediaries, big traders and major importers. Now these people to live are trying to find a piece of money, unfairly because there isn't that. So, do these people, gentlemen of coexistence, have wealth? They have the wealth? Are those on the lists? Are they the ones who cannot pay the OGA, and do you think that today they should raise the burdens? Of course, all of these measures have been voted together on 14 August 2015, SYRIZA - ANEL - PASOK - New Democracy - Potami and now you do not understand that all this must be implemented today. The poor farm must, however, isolate the fascist criminal Golden Dawn, which is allegedly caring for local production, while hiding that the country's productive potential is being destroyed because of the capitalist organisation of production, the economic crisis of the European Union, is not with the poor middle-sized farms, improving the position of Greek capital seeks within the European Union. Demagogically speaks of rural struggles. It distorts the consistent movement that fights against the exploiters, because it is with them. It stinks the struggles of the farm. This was done by the Step of the House by her Chief when she spoke and said that they are eating the subsidies money, the bigguns and the little ones in the native buddies. He said that to hide the responsibilities of the European Union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Poor medium-sized farmers, farmers, fishermen must draw conclusions from what they experience every day. They must not be delusional about the future that the European Union, the governments of capital are looking after them. In the face of this deceased situation, they must create together with the working class, the wide folk layers, the youth front, a rift to overthrow this barbaric policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Moraite, would you like me to give you the time of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u193	No, no. I would like a little tolerance, Mr President. It's the request of the blood carnivores that's on the roadblock. I'd like some tolerance, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u194	We'll be there tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u195	We're going together, yeah. They must give perspective to their struggle, to claim solutions to their increased problems, to claim the development of the agricultural, livestock sector for their benefit so that they can return with dignity to their villages, their lands, to the demands of the consistent agricultural movement that is responding to today's breath. In order to give a definitive solution to the sufferings of poor farmers, however, the struggle must not only respond to today, to create conditions for another policy that serves their own needs, the needs of the vast majority of the people who are suffering today. The JRC supports the struggles of poor medium-sized farms in whatever form of struggle they decide. And we are answering them all that the streets are not closed by the farmers, that is the anti-agricultural policy that all of you are serving. The JRC presents its proposal to the poorer medium-sized farmers, which is the only one to stand against poverty, unemployment, to dismantle. I will only say two words about the productive cooperative of popular power, which of course has nothing to do with these cooperatives we have known today, with those you are going to make, Mr Apostleu. They are the co-operatives of the big farmers, they are the cooperatives of the producer groups, these are the cooperatives for the contractual agriculture that will give large businesses the production of our country. In conclusion, I would like to say that in such a direction the Communist Party of Greece calls for poor medium-sized farms to fight. To close, gentlemen of the conflict, not to pass you through the mind that you are going to humiliate the farmers to go back with your head plunged. Swallow winds, you will reap storms. This game of the farm is victorious, it's a survival struggle and it's a fair fight. I submit this document for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u196	President Koutsoubas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u197	The great success of yesterday's strike shows that there is an important part of our people saying that it is no longer going, that it must end this deception. Everywhere, throughout Greece, the heart of the working class, the poor farmer, the fighting people, who are struggling, who is not handed over to the attack of government - capital - the European Union. In the major strikes, at the syllables, the farmer of the desolated blocks met, the striker who struggles for the cut-off, the unemployed man who fights the battle to live, the self-employed of the city and the village who fights with the paddock put on him by others, the young and the woman of the people's family. One was the unanimous will, the screaming of our people, from far to far across the country. Retire here and now the abortion bill. Don't even come over for a conversation in the House. What, gentlemen of the government, do you say to the thousands of farmers fighting on the farm blocks all over the country? You tell them, 'Come and talk about how and when we will slaughter you, but we will slaughter you'. Don't you really know the farmers' demands? Why don't you answer these in particular? Do you not know if the majority of farmers are uninsured and will remain, since they cannot pay the increased insurance contributions? Do you not know that production costs have been detonated, since VAT has increased in agricultural means and supplies from 13% to 23%, the reimbursement of excise duties on agricultural oil has been abolished? And why do you fool around when farmers ask for duty-free oil - as the shipowners have -, in direct terms, a 50% reduction in electricity prices for small and medium-sized farmers - as are the industrialists, to whom you are bringing new reductions in the price of electricity - but also the abolition of VAT on agricultural means and supplies? Do you not know that with the new CAP of the European Union 2015-2020 subsidies are cut - aid gradually by 2019 and the cuts will reach 60% in total? Do you not know that new exclusions from subsidies are being imposed by small farmers? Do you not know that you are applying the law of the previous government, New Democracy - PASOK, for taxing 13% of the first euro, after the tax was abolished with proof, which represented 9,550 euros, while the government plan increases the rate of taxation on agricultural income from 13% to 20% for 2016 and 26% for 2017? Nor do you know that the tax advance is increasing for the following year from 55% to 75% for 2016 and 100% for 2017? Does the government not know that poor farmers are not taxed on their actual net income, but on the basis of living evidence all over the world? This is what the government knows very well, but instead of responding to this slandering, exaggerating farmers, it speaks of trying to create a climate of political unrest, destabilisation. Aren't you ashamed to present the farmers as "destructed cheeks" and the young T-bottoms as "written big businessmen"? But all this isn't new. Others said it. Previous ones said it. All these tricks of extortion, threats, intimidation, use of every anti-population government. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence has implemented the determined New Democracy Government - PASOK farmers' tax from the first euro to the first and second memorandums. Along with the other urban parties, they voted for the third memorandum. The tools were used to destroy many small and medium-sized farms more quickly, to concentrate land, production and marketing on the largest, rural capitalist enterprises. This objective is also implemented by the CFP by 2020 with the so-called economic growth. Those remaining until then will be captives of banking capital through the conventional form of agriculture, which is steadily expanding for all products as well. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the agricultural mobilisations at the congress, the parties of the coup d'état, the other parties of the Euromoney, the Nazi Golden Dawn, all of them are demobilising for the importance of primary production, the need for productive reconstruction, to overthrow the productive model. They are mocking farmers because they are trying to hide that primary production within this system is now objectively dependent on industry, but that it is also determined and ultimately subjected to the relationships that are of benefit to the big trader, the industrialist, the banks, that is, what we call the 'capitalist way of production'. What and how it will be produced is determined by the motive of the great capitalist profit and not by the pursuit of a profit by the small, or even a relatively medium-sized farmer and his family. This is why agricultural production cannot really satisfy the people's nutritional needs, since it is produced and exported or imported products only for the sake of the profits of the few big traders, the profits of industrialists. Profitability determines what it exports, for example, Greece, like durum wheat and imports soft that could be produced here as well. This defines the restructuring of the cow's milk sector. Thus, from eight thousand six hundred six hundred forty cow producers that were in 2013, three thousand five hundred fifty five producers are active in 2014. In other words, we have a 59% reduction and self-sufficiency in 2014 in milk was about 60% of the needs. The same is true of other products, such as legumes, poultry and vegetable products. They say they care about local production while hiding that the country's productive potential is being destroyed because of the capitalist organisation of production, the economic crisis, the European Union, the unequal position of Greece within the European Union. There is experience now. There has already been experience since Greece joined the EEC in 1981, experience of converting the agricultural trade balance from positive to negative. With the policy of the governments of the New Democracy - PASOK, the result was the destruction of domestic production forces. Hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized farmers, although subject to this, following the existing European regulations, the quotas, the bans on the CAP, the restructuring of crops, were eventually destroyed. That was the result. Traditional crops and industries with raw materials from agricultural production, such as sugar, tobacco, textiles, footwear, have been shattered. At the same time, the sovereignty of monopolist groups, particularly in livestock production, the concentration of agricultural products, the production and marketing of foodstuffs, has been strengthened. Of these objectives and policies, state deficits have been created, the insurance funds have been cleared and, once again, they incriminate workers, pensioners and farmers for that. The so-called left limits of the negotiations of the new SYRIZA government within the twilight alliance soon proved very close. Producers are not on the side of the small- and medium-sized farmers. They only seek to improve the position of the great Greek capital within the European Union - at most -. That is why the New Democracy, when criticizing the government consciously disorientates to confuse and deceive farmers too. It does not tell the truth about the European Union and the CFP. It is falsifying, we say, the opposition to the right-wing, neoliberal, on the other hand, supposedly left-wing politics. Many farmers may still believe that there is room for return in some better days, such as some of them in the past. We can tell them with all honesty that this is not realistic. All the Community's national policies have now become increasingly alive to strengthen only the large capitalist or secondary production. That is what the new CAP serves. This serves changes in land use, subsidies, ways of taxation, contributions, etc. Finally, it depends on the cost of production, the fact that it is too high while the sales prices to the trader are too low. This is because there are monopolies in industry, commerce, energy, transport, the banks that all together crush and undermine the self-employed small and medium-sized farmers. After all, that means what the Communist Party of Greece only says so clearly without fluorescents, that this is the state of the monopolies, the great capital we say, of the governments concerned, with whatever composition they characterize, literally bleed the poor and medium-sized farmers. But the situation doesn't mean it's a dead end. The JRC says there is a way out for all these people of hard work, production. The JRC is struggling for the only solution that is of benefit to many against poverty, unemployment, the dismantling, on the road of the people's power by socialising the capitalist land's farms, the mechanised means of production, the state infrastructure of trade with their direct integration into the central design for production, with the aim of satisfying first of all the great people's needs, the diet of the people, the guarantee of raw materials for industry. This agricultural production will take advantage of all the productive potential that the country has, our comparative advantages, territorial, climatic, know-how, science, industrial production, processing of raw materials, environmental protection and management of natural resources. In this will young farmers have a position with technical or scientific expertise, with real modern working and life-threatening conditions without debt and the risk of destruction that they have as individual producers. The way out of socially organized production in a state or cooperative way must no longer be afraid of anyone. In this society, small and medium-sized farmers are placed through the agricultural production cooperative, which will have the right to use land as a productive means while reducing production costs by joint cultivation and collection of products, by exploiting state infrastructure. It is the solution which relieves small and medium-sized farmers once and for all from the banks, from the industrialists, the big traders, from the taxes. It ensures rural income, the disposal, storage, maintenance and transportation of agricultural production through the State mechanism with defined ratios of production and government prices in products. It protects against natural disasters. It enables our villages to acquire educational, cultural vitality, modern state infrastructures of general education, health, culture, physical education. The common future of many small and medium-sized farmers with employees in industry, commerce, services and elsewhere lies in their freedom from today's capitalist property, in the construction of real social, socialist, that is, of property and economics, things that you have certainly thrown away in the baskets of unusable people. It is only for reasons that you have been a long time now, just in the last year that this has become much more widely understood both in farms and in workers. That's why all you have to do is smile, but you won't smile for long. This economy is realistic, we say, and listen to this proposal from the JRC, which is not falling too often outside. It is realistic because it is of great benefit to the working class, to the working people, to the people, to the people, to the farmers who are in the fields. This cooperative type of organization of agricultural production certainly has nothing in common with the cooperative organizations that we have known in this territory of capitalism so far with the contribution of all those who have so far - and your own - governments, and of course not with what you, the left-wing minister, promises. Today's producer groups and cooperatives are prepared not to hunt the very large fish at the very small, but to eat the middle. The JRC supports the survival struggles, the demands of the fighting small and medium-sized farmers, as well as work, wage earners or a block of scientists, other self-employed professionals in towns. It opposes unemployment both with its overall policy and with the support of direct claims, such as an unemployment benefit for all, without preconditions, capable of living a decent, comparable pension for all, public, free, upgraded, modern health services for all and all. The JRC also supports today's fair requests from farmers, such as the immediate withdrawal of this insurance horror, the abolition of taxation from the first euro and others that our rapporteur has said enough and the Members of our party's parliamentary group will then be analysed. The JRC puts all its powers to extract what farmers can today or even to halt the new anti-grassroots measures. At the same time, the Communist Party of Greece does not hide the truth, warns and calls. In front of us is the way to the people's social, economic and political progress and prospects. The struggle will be difficult, it is not easy, it will become endurance and lasting. It will be able to put obstacles, as much as is done, when it is linked to the objective of another organisation of production in our country. This popular alliance, with a powerful Communist Party of Greece, is a one-way path for real change in the negative correlation today between exploiters and exploiters. It is a precondition for popular power, for an economy based only on popular prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, too. Mr. Sakis Vardalis has the floor. I would ask the other speakers of the JRC for an economy in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this year's farmers' mobilisations have come as a result of their up-to-date disposal, in which discontent has certainly played a part in the implementation of the anti-agricultural policy of recent years, but also their disposal to say in this way 'is getting here!' to fight to prevent their release. Small and medium-sized farms pay dearly the capitalist crisis, the memoranda policy and the European Union's common agricultural policy. Today's co-government, like the previous ones, moves to the same 'drome' of anti-agricultural policy, the common European policy. What the common agricultural policy means is that farmers have now learned it, they know it very well. The CAP means restrictions on crops and quotas on production. It means free, duty-free imports of agricultural products into our country. It means low prices in agricultural products and increasing production costs. It means that farmers are not compensated for the damage to production caused by adverse weather conditions and diseases. It means a wild tax on farmers from the first euro of income, as well as HISPIA for houses, bars and fields. Means "grass" for ELGA, OGA, OSE, irrigation drilling, stairway installations etc.. Ultimately, it means a reduction in agricultural income, a massive dismantling of small and medium-sized farmers, poverty and the impoverishment of the rural world. The fall in income for small and medium-sized farmers in recent years has exceeded 40%, while the missing agricultural households in our country, in the years in the EEC and in the European Union, have exceeded 3 000. Some people will tell us, as the Minister has recently used it as an argument, that the common agricultural policy means both subsidies and single aid and money for farmers from the ESDP and other Community programmes. However, farmers have now become very well acquainted with this fairy tale. Of these, peaches reach small and medium-sized farmers. Lots of money end up in the big farmers and some superintendents. Although these in the new CAP of the European Union will be cut by 60%. You also continue a policy which, through the low producer prices on agricultural products, the reductions in subsidies, the rapid increase in production costs and many other hard anti-agricultural measures, leads to a reduction in agricultural income, which means a large part of the agricultural world already lives in conditions of mass bankruptcy and extremism. That is why you are using a lot of tools. One of the tools, which I would like to mention and which you are using to unleash poor medium-sized farms, is the cost of production. Time after year, agricultural prices are falling, while production costs are rising, leading small and medium-sized farmers to poverty and despair. The refund of excise duty on diesel is abolished. In addition, a reasonable question arises: why is agriculture and livestock separated from other industries in industry and shipping, which apply favourable regulations? Secondly, increase the price of the agricultural current. With data from EUROSTAT, which you often invoke, in March 2013 - that is, these figures relate until the end of 2012 - to an increase in the cost of energy, in the period mentioned, was more than 64%. We understand today where more than 100% of the increases have been made in the meantime. Increase the VAT on supplies - seeds, fertilizers, medicines - from 13% to 23%. Many thousands of small and medium-sized farmers are doomed and are actually in the 'air', threatening not only to get out of production but also to lose their fields, their homes, their livelihoods and to end up unemployed and inherited. It burns the pocket of farmers and farmers to the increased cost of production. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm done. Why don't you give duty-free oil, like shipowners, Minister? Why don't you immediately reduce the price of the agricultural stream by 50% for small and medium-sized farmers, as the industrialists have, to whom you are even more cheaper in energy? Why do you not abolish VAT on agricultural means and supplies, on animal feed, on food, on people's consumption, on services? Why not introduce lower guaranteed prices for all agricultural products covering production costs and leaving a reasonable profit? There is a solution to the benefit of small and medium-sized farmers and farmers. Greece can have rich agricultural, livestock and fisheries production, capable of nourishing the entire population and developing relations and exports of Greek products on an equal footing with all the countries of the world. Our proposal was presented in a thorough manner, both the party's Secretary-General and the rapporteur. I am not going to talk about this. Only with this proposal from the JRC will the needs of our people be met in cheap, quality products, with productive cooperatives in the small and medium-sized farms, reducing production costs and ensuring good income for farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, too. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. The targeting of farmers and of the confrontation of SYRIZA - ANEL is reflected in the new measures against their insurance rights, and in particular in the new overturns in their insurance fund, OGA, since the new plan for insurance is a monetarism, not only at the expense of the poor and middle farmers but also of workers, pensioners, half-employers, the new generation. It abolishes what remains of the social nature of the insurance, implementing the third memorandum passed by SYRIZA - ANEL together with New Democracy, PASOK, Potami, which is now hypocritically protesting. Thus, in the government plan for insurance, as far as small and medium-sized farmers are concerned, there is a gradual increase in the rate of insurance contributions under the current GAAP, which, from 7%, which is now, will almost triple and reach 20% in 2019. Furthermore, the health contribution from 2.5% to 6.95% is increased, while there will be a 0.5% contribution for the Rural Land, resulting in a total pension and health charge of 27.45%. What does that mean? It means that from EUR 753 a year the farmer, who is insured in the first category, will pay EUR 1.544, which is the lowest on the basis of insurance contributions in 2019! The total amount of contributions for the agricultural family will be multiplied if the woman of the farmer is to be insured in the OGA, but also the minor members, the children, and that regardless of the income of the farmer. He will pay this amount even if he has been inside last year. In all of this, we must bear in mind that the other 'hards' imposed on farmers, namely the very high insurance contributions for the ELGA, the taxation from the first euro of income at a rate of 26% and the advance tax of 100% next year, the EMI for houses, warehouses, plots, fields of farmers and farmers, the increase in 23% of VAT on farmland, the abolition of the refund of the oil tax, etc. The list is long. It is clear, therefore, that many more small and medium-sized farmers will not be able to respond to the new, increased insurance contributions and remain without insurance, medical care and pensions, since today 50% and more of the farmers are not even able to pay the current contributions, which are lower than those planned to be imposed. So whoever has money will care for his health will have medicines, vaccines for himself and his children and care, even this downgraded provided by public hospitals and health centers. But whoever doesn't have, what's going to happen? Is he gonna die? There you go not only to the farmers but to the entire Greek people, since the strategic choice you are following, the present government, like the previous ones, and to the health sector is 'White Bible', which means individual responsibility for the issue of health. Thus, the State is relieved of any responsibility it has over this matter. So the blow to the insurance rights of farmers is taking place in parallel with all the other obstacles which the government and the European Union put to poor and medium-sized farmers, in order to stay on their land, to continue to grow. All anti-agricultural measures, the core of which is foreseen by the new CAP, lead to thousands of small and medium-sized farmers being destroyed, so that land and production can be concentrated in a few hands and at the same time to create large capitalist rural enterprises. This objective also serves with the insurance policy, as with all the measures that the Minister had a few months ago, in the summer, characterised as measures - a gravel tomb of the agricultural sector, even calling on farmers then to reject them with the 'no' in the referendum. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of Parliament is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. However, these extermination measures were co-signed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, as did the other parties with the third memorandum. And now, together with your partners in the European Union, you are putting the tombstone on small and medium-sized farms. That is why the struggle of the poor and medium-sized farmers from far aside in the country to stay on their land, in their field, is a struggle for survival, a struggle which includes the right to a decent pension and medical care, which are at risk today as much as ever. That is why they reject government plans and demand that no increase in insurance contributions be made, that they claim and fight for only public free health - welfare for all under the responsibility of the state, free medicines, that all the farmers' health books be sealed, without conditions and conditions, that the current pension threshold be withdrawn to sixty-seven years and that 60 years for farmers and fifty-five for farmers. Because you know very well, as we all know, that the elderly farmer cannot do the hard work that the agricultural profession demands. And if many people do so today, it is because they are forced, because by the degrading pension they receive, they cannot guarantee the necessary survival. At the same time, they seek decent pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u202	Put an end to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u203	I'm closing, Mr. President. We believe that the fight for the survival of farmers can be effective when combining the struggle to remove the measures and recover losses with the prospect of another development path, which agricultural income, insurance and pensions will be guaranteed. A prerequisite for this is the reconversion of the common agricultural policy - the CAP - the European Union, against the interests of monopolies and multinationals, with the strengthening of the social alliance between agriculture and the workers and other peoples, which really opens the way for prosperity for our people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u204	Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u205	Good morning to the President, the Ministers, who are in the chairs, the Members and the ladies and gentlemen. Returning from Macedonia I went through the farmers' roadblocks and talked to them. I told them that the position of the Central Association is not to close the streets. It is inappropriate for a social group to turn against others in order to achieve its own. This is my fixed position. There are, of course, parties here and some political forces, which on a permanent basis combine strikes and demonstrations with anti-social behaviour. They don't do it now, they do it by their establishment some powers. It's their tactic. However, the fact that we are asking farmers not to close the streets does not mean that the government can be dissatisfied. An ambassador, a month ago, told me that "we do not insist too much on the right to strike, because dialogue is so civilized that the strike has ceased to have value". Now, when could that happen in Greece too, to have fertile dialogues before social ruptures come so that ultimately the strike is a lasting right, rarely used, when we will achieve it, this is a matter of maturity of political life. The question, however, is that the government must not be dissatisfied. What does that mean? For five years, Mr Tsipras said that he has had solutions and that he will unite the South against the North and that Merkel will be afraid and Europe will change - Greece did not want Mr Tsipras to change. - Some people believed him, of course. And all this is very nice, like fairy tales, if they could be. But fairy tales are only for children to sleep when they make it hard for parents. In practice these things are not easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u206	Europe is slowly changing, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u207	Mr Tsipras' attitude was to say for five years that he has other solutions and some good night going to sign them all, uncollected. And I say, "Affliction" because what was the battle? What refused that night? Did he refuse anything? Do you have any evidence explaining it or even a measure that Mr. Tsipras managed and excluded? Absolutely nothing. He signed it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u208	Please, I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Arachovite, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u210	The Members of the Central Association always listen to you in complete silence. If you are naturally troublemakers, it is another case. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u211	We are not naturally troublemakers, but it chokes us right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u212	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u213	Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u214	Protect the Hall from yourself. And the Chamber needs protection, since the President leaves them. What can I say? Have you ever heard a Member of the Centro Association yell when you talk? If you've heard one time, I'm going to float him. I believe that at the moment, too, farmers are paying the bride for the signature of Mr Tsipras one night. And you found the easy solutions, the farmers and the free traders. These two branches are difficult to trade. It was hard to get lawyers out on the streets. It is now difficult for farmers to close the streets, such as Andrew Papandreou, who were given something, or on Karamanlis, and quiet. Now farmers won't achieve anything anymore. If there is a majority that the insurance company will vote, the whole society is in vain with its reactions. We have a parliamentary system in which the government could represent a 35% in September and what is happening now has a 15% plus 1% to 1.5% of Cammen, that is, its popular tread to be 16%, but parliamentary, has 153 Members in theory. So the whole society should be 'in the bars' and be seated in the squares, the government passes what it wants. We have a system like that. The day before yesterday, I was compiling with a SYRIZA MEP in Messinia and he said to me "one of the five MPs in Messinia, we have three in SYRIZA". I said to her: "But, well, Messinia is a right-wing castle, how do you have three?" "It's the bonus, Mr. Leventis. We're ashamed of the bonus, but we're using it” he told me. They're ashamed, but they're using the bonus!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u215	Name!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u216	Let's not say her name. Let me not expose her. You know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u217	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Papadopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u219	He has come to sit back, as you can see, Mr President, but he continues!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u220	I'm not interested in Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u221	Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u222	I'm not interested in Mr. Papadopoulos. He's good to hear and when he talks to us. This parliamentary situation, which exists at the moment, therefore, does not reflect more than 16% of the Greek people. And yet it says to you: 'The world has voted for us'. This is the "believe" of some, and by this way Greece is governed, not now, this time, it has been governed for sixty, not to say more, years. The Left had a dream of changing these things. And when we tell them 'how will these things change? Just do the simple analogue," do you know what they're answering? ‘Subsistence’. I knew the Left was impatient to simply proportional. Now she's patient. Mr Kourublis appeared next time in Kalamata in front of me and said: And stable governments will ensure his law and a more proportionate system. What's that now? The circle is square, because stable governments are the New Democracy's view of a strengthened one. The most proportional is the same root as the analogue. They don't want a simple analogue, they want a more proportionate system. However, more proportionately, it is a system that remains strengthened. As far as farmers are concerned, if you insist that farmers and free professionals pay the cost of signing Mr Tsipras, I believe that at the end the government will fall. I do not believe that all SYRIZA Members - and the hundred and fifty three, together with Kammenos - are going to vote on this thing. This fear has understood Mr. Prime Minister, I am very sorry. This fear has taken hold of him, namely that not all Members will go to him to do his favour and vote - contrary to what he has said so far - and not even to their regions. I read the JRC's question. The JRC concludes by saying that they need to socialise everything, machinery, land, land. And at the JRC, they haven't realized that communism fell. I'm afraid you haven't figured it out. Perhaps we are the only country in the world where the Communist Party lives in Stalin's era. Do farmers want socialisation both of the means and of the land? Do they want what you're saying? Only you want it, the five to six, the MPs. Do you find farmers, even members of the JRC, who want your proposals, accompanied by an exit from the European Union? Do farmers know what it expects them if the country leaves the euro and the European Union? I guess not. You must also be concerned that eighty years later you are stuck in a 4%. Doesn't that worry you that you're a party of so many decades and you're stuck, and the season is fine now? After the capitalists betrayed the other parties, you had to go up. I don't see you coming up. On the contrary, I see you going up to immaturity and a lack of landing in reality. I ask the government to review the bill, not to introduce it by force, which is what it says about February or March. I know you won't introduce it. You are stalling it because perhaps the day the bill is passed is the day the government falls. Don't hurry to introduce it. You better think about calling Mr. Mitsotakis. Both Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis both within your parties - and the neo-democrats and the Syrians - isolate the thermoplasts and fanatics and set up an action plan and go to Europe to renegotiate on a more serious basis. Only a strong global government can convince Europeans to relax the programme and combine the payment of bonds by a certain rate of growth, to move, that is, the closest bonds to growth, so that the country can see a white day. So what's the globe going to do? The direct bonds should be transferred further so that the money is thrown into Greece and that Greece has political stability - I hope - also some investors. That's the solution. Otherwise, to do everything socially, to say 'not in Europe', all these are voices - to forgive me - imbalance. I'm not saying it for anyone in particular. These are the voices of imbalance, which should not be heard in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u224	And this voice - not only the parties that support the interests of capital and implement them by governmental thorns - is very useful to the system that has come down now, because it says the mychidds of the system, all that its payers cannot say openly. And finally, make use of him to the government! That's what our country's bourgeois class wants. In this respect, therefore, it is clear. The message carried it very quickly, as a rabbit, passing through the roadblocks. What was that message? Anti-Communism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u225	Let me give you a reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u226	We haven't interrupted you and we won't allow you any interruptions. No interruptions! In this respect, therefore, they were very quickly confirmed. The masks are down. We did not have any illusions about the role of the Central Association. After all, the historic route of its President from his youth is well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u227	Are you sure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u228	And from this point of view, he did not find a single word about farmers, their problems, their causes, their pains, their needs. Nothing at all. Cuveda, cich! What did he say? 'Antagonisms of behaviour, when fighting!' And, indeed, when this policy is overshadowed by them, when this system leads them to poverty and impoverishment, what should they do? To bend the head and to tell the capitalists, the bourgeois, whom the Central Association warmly defends, and the capitalist system: "Take our livelihood, take everything, so that they can get the profits of capitalists to live in poverty and impoverishment." This world of exploitation and barbarism wants the Union of Centres and nothing else. And we say it very clearly, gentlemen of the government. The JRC's question today is not essentially addressed to the government, because we have no illusions about your policy, the deeply anti-agricultural one. You have taken the thread of the former governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, which have accumulated the problems in the poorer medium-sized farms, and you are going to complete the dirty work that is to speed up the destruction of the poor medium-sized farm. Where are we? To the hundreds of thousands of farmers, who give the battle decisively, to the blocks, to the common front with workers, the working class, the self-employed, the poor layers of the city, the professionals and traders. We are addressing them precisely because we want in every way to reveal the hostile anti-agricultural policy that you are implementing and the various tools you are using to reach the goal. One of these tools, which you are using, to create additional problems in poorer medium-sized farms is tax: 13% of the first euro did it by the previous government, 20% will now go and with a view to 26%, an increase in the advance from 55% to 75% and 100% and, in fact, an income that may not even have, because you put in and the evidence. And what's a presumption? The fact that he has a farm lot? The fact that he has a home to house his family? The fact that he has a farm car to carry supplies and agricultural products? These are presumptions and are taxed, regardless of whether it has or does not have income. And I am continuing: Increasing VAT, which increases its cost of production, abolishing the refund of excise duty on fuel, while for shipowners you have it tax-free and HISPIA throughout the lot that it has, that is, its homes, even for the stanzas. From this point of view, it is a useful tool to make life unsavoury for poor medium-sized farms, so that you can speed up the procedures for decommissioning. Really, what do you have to say to the breeders in the Erymania region, who can't have elementary reasonable function when their stigmas don't have electricity? Because PPC, to reach the electricity there, asks them the hair of their head for the connection and they can't do it. In the 21st century, in 2016, there is no current in the rural scenarios, precisely because they cannot pay it. This choice is therefore a strategic pursuit of capital. This is what the European Union contributes with the common agricultural policy and with the measures that have so far been taken for farmers, so that the land and production can be concentrated on less and less hands, that the great agricultural capitalist enterprise develops in the agricultural sector. We therefore say quite clearly that this is a struggle for survival and, in addition to the immediate objectives of the struggle, we must target poor medium-sized farmers in joint action with the workers and other peoples in the heart of the beast that kills them. This wild beast is the capitalist system and only through its overthrow, only through the socialisation of the means of production will it really be able to exploit all productive activities, meet all the modern needs of farmers, but also the whole of the people's family in our country. There's no other way. All the rest is for the Monday Presence!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u230	What do you want, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u231	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u232	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, because there are many times when representatives of the Communist Party call the Association of Centres and I personally 'lady', I would like to say two things to them. Firstly, until now, there have been the same fights that went with Mitsotakis. Secondly, I would like to say what 'crowd' is going to say. "Lagos" can be someone who works dirtyly for capitalism. He may be a "crowd". However, it may also be whoever closes their eyes to reality and blinds, whoever says incontrovertible screams and indiscretions, is the same "crowd". Because when in capitalism we have no serious opposition, then we're probably helping him get harder. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. There's no point in continuing. After all, it is the content of the question, and not precisely that, that it plays the role of the 'global', that is to say, helping the government to disorientate the whole debate. Ladies and gentlemen, small and medium-sized farmers are experiencing the deadlocks of the common agricultural policy, the European Union's strategy to centralise production in a few hands, the control of the livestock sector by cartels, the liberalisation of areas, their change of use to give capital cheap land. These policies are leading to a violent dismantling of thousands of small farmers, reducing payments, rights, robbing through the ENPI fields, mansions, ravages in ELGA and a number of other measures - tax storms. Anger and indignation are extinguished by farmers, since they have not paid compensation for two years now or have received crumbs because of the declassification of pastures and the cut-off basic payment. I would mention to you that in the Anogia of the three hundred seventy farmers the sixty-five have not been taken at all, and the rest of the people who took them have been cut off. Those who have joined the organic livestock programme have been unpaid for four years, although they have been charged for certification payments to private companies and for payment applications and the purchase of organic feed with large amounts. Tragic situations also experience from the cutting of millions of acres of grazing land that were eligible. The new OPEKEPE action plans - the European Union consider that millions of grazing acres are ineligible for subsidies for thousands of sheep and goat farmers. arbitrarily many present them with using pastures in areas that do not only use, but are in other regions and are even hundreds of miles away. The government is mocking cut farmers by saying that it is not something serious, it will be very easy to solve by transporting pastures to municipalities with an excess of money. The reality, however, is completely different. I will bring the characteristic example of Crete. While farmers, within the suffocating frameworks you set them, have submitted the relevant applications to the municipalities concerned, municipal pastures, which were given to them for exploitation, were not finally given them, without any explanation. Conversely, pasture in the same municipality has been delivered to producers of other municipalities or other regional units, without prioritising their primary yield to the producers of the same municipality in order to activate their livestock. Areas more than 50 km from their base stable installation are attributed. The same is the case with the farmers of Attica who have taken them to Evia in ignorance of them in the rest of Greece, of course. In this way, many farmers are deprived of aid and receive far less or no compensation for the ‘explosive’ compensation they are entitled to receive until 2012 with the same pastures they use today and are a key resource for buying feed, energy, medicines to move their herds. This, of course, together with the low or medium-sized grazing of the majority of grazing animals through temporary grazing plans, will lead to a reduction in the number of animals grazing per hectare and thus a reduction in farmers' rights. At the same time, local small dairy industries and small family cheese shops will also be hit, namely those who do not import milk from abroad and support local livestock production, as far as possible, with the production of livestock products. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Even more acute is the problem with organic livestock. Also, the clover increased by EUR 0,50 pound, while the feed mix from EUR 12 in 2009 rose to EUR 16 and EUR 17 in the bag. Similarly, corn from 10 euros in 2009 went to 12.5 euros the bag. Conversely, the selling price of the products is the opposite. The sheep milk from EUR 1.05 sold in 2009 went to EUR 0.90 per kilo this year, while this year at EUR 0.80. As regards fresh meat, from the EUR 5 on average sold in 2009, it went to EUR 3.6 to EUR 3.8 pound this year. As for calf milk, a pound is sold, i.e. as a bottle of water. In addition, farmers are charged by the municipalities with unbearable ‘harks’, land-use charges and water charges calculated per animal per capita. However, there is no infrastructure, such as rural roads or electricity. At the same time, the phenomenon of lamb dying due to lack of iodine and proper diet. This is due to overexploitation of pastures, since farmers cannot carry herds from one pasture to the other. All of this is happening in conjunction with the increase in medical costs per animal per head, the high production costs, the capital taxes, the huge insurance contributions to OGA, ELGA, VAT, HISPIA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So who can withstand such measures, such a policy? Only the large livestock units of the lowest production costs can be withheld compared to farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, small and medium-sized farmers and farmers rightly come out on the roadblocks and we are fully in agreement with the requests to strengthen livestock farming, ensure the necessary grazing areas, free state labelling of animals, legitimisation of stacked facilities, infrastructure to deal with zoonoses and the uptake of geotechnics, and reduce production costs. The feed should also be subsidized and their debts removed. The current situation, of course, confirms the view and position of the JRC. Finally, Mr President, we think that small and medium-sized farmers at this critical moment should not be subject to the flag of the race. In the roadblocks, in fact, the most glamorous racing pages are written. They are only left to mix their interests with those of the working class, the self-employed, the new generation, women of labor and work, building a step forward - the great popular alliance for social and political liberation from the bonds of slavery and exploitation of human beings, building a new society of socialism and communism. And let the cowards and the mobs be mocked, for whom I also have an order from the roadblocks of Crete, a mandarin! Let me tell you. "For his rightfulness one deserves to die and let cowards and worshippers say." Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Tassos has the floor. If you have a mandarin, Mr. Tassos, tell her at first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u237	You liked it!- Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u238	When the JRC proposes the solutions to the problems that workers and people are facing today, we are told that what you are saying is good but not realistic. And we tell them that it is realistic and necessary, because there is another realism of subjection based on fear, deceitfulness and perversion of reality, and another is the realism of resistance, rupture and overthrow based on knowledge and action. In particular: Knowledge, what are the needs and capabilities of society. In knowledge, who is the real opponent. And in action, so that those who produce wealth can take care of him and enjoy him and not have sixty-two people around the world today who possess as much wealth as three and a half billion, half the population of the earth. This system serves those who are in realism of subjection. They're servants of these sixty two. They serve. They're working for their interests. To be able, in fact, to live and have so much wealth. If you divide three and a half billion with sixty-two, each of them has as much wealth as a country with 56.5 million inhabitants. This system they want to sustain. This system they want to protect. This system wants to do so that these sixty-two become thirty, because a few years ago, sixty-two were a little more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u239	He was eighty-six.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u240	Eighty-six. Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. So, that's why this system works for all those who come here doing sermons for realism of subjection. To bend the head and say, "What can we do? There's no other way. Capitalism is like a natural phenomenon. It's an earthquake. All we can do is minimize its consequences." Well, no, capitalism is not a natural phenomenon! It's a social phenomenon. It's a creation of people. And if capitalism does not serve the interests of the vast majority of those producing wealth - because only by work is wealth produced - capitalism is reversed. This logic was yesterday's strike and yesterday's palatial rallys all over the country. In Lesvos, you couldn't drink coffee, they'd shut everything down. That's for the first time. So the world begins to create what we, the people's, social alliance, are saying, which will lead to the way to overthrow this system. It begins and takes flesh and bone and is done based on the needs of those producing wealth. The aim is, through a course of breaks with this system, to lead the people and the people to power, because then only, indeed, their problems will be solved. Of course, a great tool to achieve this objective is the common agricultural policy, which has been in place for years, and is implemented by faith and aiming at all the governments that have so far governed the country. The current government does nothing but move on the same line. Because it can be said that the problems that farmers are facing today are not today, but the current government continues to take the same line. I shall now refer to a few more specific problems, which concern the area in which I am elected. First of all, there have been problems with refunds to excise oil since 2013. The farmers and farmers of Lesvos did not receive the compensation paid to other farmers for 2015. They were excluded. Payments for bio-growers for the year 2013 were also excluded. In the area of the islands of the eastern Aegean, it is known that there are many problems with the zoonoses transported from Turkey's coast. Here are the problems with bluetongue, with vaccinations, etc., which should be done by the veterinary services. But they are not, because there is a lack of staff and resources. And farmers and farmers are not only charged to do so themselves, but in many cases they also pay for vaccines. Also, there is a lack of infrastructure, streets and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Tasso, you'll have to finish. Instead of the three minutes, you took five and go for six. In other words, you have spoken twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u242	I shall conclude, Mr President. What we want to say is that we are next to the struggles of the farmers, the workers, the unemployed, the self-employed and the people in general, in order to win everything they can under this system with a struggle and not with social consensus and to create that popular social alliance, which will open the way for the people to take power in their hands and to socialise the means of production and rejoice with the wealth that it produces.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u243	Mr Evangelos Apostolos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, friends of the JRC, we can agree on one thing, namely that we are starting from different starting points. You are against the country's European path and we are in favour of the European path. Of course, you may promise issues relating to the socialist transformation of society, but we on the eve of the elections did not promise that. We signed an agreement knowing the painful consequences. And of course we have done so, not only to ensure the country's European course but in particular to the rural area, because we believe that the way the situation is shaped, the sustainability of the rural area is intertwined with the common agricultural policy. We wanted, in other words, simply to protect the rural area as a whole of 3.5 billion a year in terms of aid and investment resources. It is not the time to discuss the impact of the CAP on the impact, whether they were positive or negative. However, we, having a full sense of the data in which the economy is moving and, in particular, rural ones, consider that we need to take advantage of any potential available to us. These are possibilities which all European farmers are either exploiting or looking for. The battle we are currently fighting with the partners is by nature defensive. There will be other battles, which will be battles both against the space and in favour of the development needed by the place. Farmers on the roadblock show as a basic demand that the withdrawal of proposals on insurance and taxation and the discussion of issues from a zero-based point of view. I myself and the Ministry in general have made exhaustive dialogues and meetings with them not only on these issues, but also on many others that are indeed mentioned in the question you have tabled, of course, always with a view to supporting the area, because the rural area really needs it. However, the issues of taxation and insurance are issues of general policy. They are managed by the relevant ministers and are currently negotiating them with our lenders. We are also waiting, of course, for farmers' proposals. It would be totally inappropriate for me to make a commitment. And they know that, we have told the farmers several times. They asked themselves to meet with the Prime Minister. He responded immediately. Farmers are avoiding it. But their French colleagues, who are being mobilised at the same time because they have similar problems - there are problems in the rural area in the European Union - they met with President Olad the day before yesterday, and Holland promised that he would announce measures in the French rural report on 29 February. Honestly, I repeat, I cannot explain the farmers' reaction. At the forthcoming meeting of the Agriculture Council, we will have a special meeting with the German Minister for Agriculture on the problems of our rural area and will seek to have a meeting with our French colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an absolute need to agree with them. The majority of our country's political world recognises the peculiarity and difficulties of agricultural activity. Our Government, however, defends it and serves it in these matters. In the tax side of their net average income - which, according to recent figures from the Ministry of Finance, is indeed small, because there is actually a great cost of production in the rural area - next to the EUR 2,500 declared as a net average income, it also ensures a tax-free income of EUR 5,000 from the aid. Also in the insurance sector, 90% of OGA expenditure, i.e. from 3,35 billion to 3 billion, is covered by the State budget, while in the other insurance funds the coverage rate is 50%. It's special. However, in the current scheme of the Ministry of Labour, as a minimum income for the calculation of contributions, 80% of the minimum wage is calculated and it is adjusted to take place over a period of time, which is not the case with the rest of the persons insured. With your question, ladies and gentlemen, you are asking for specific requests, such as a net tax-free income of EUR 30,000, increased by EUR 5 000 for every child, that is, for the average agricultural family to be EUR 40,000. According to the recent figures from the Ministry of Finance, only one in two hundred farmers has a net income of over 40,000 euros. Do you feel that socially acceptable such a arrangement can be accepted? Of course, we agree with you that the big farmers and businessmen should be taxed. We will do so, because our aim is to defend small and medium-sized farmers. You say 45%, for example, we can go further. We do not disagree in that direction. But do you not realize that accepting your proposal for non-recovery of books of costs to EUR 40,000 makes them captive to the space's intermediaries and leads them to overtaxation? [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Why do you want to deprive them of the possibility of paying VAT, of not offsetting it with what they receive? In fact, where does it turn out that it is better for farmers to be taxed on the basis of the gross value of their production - since it is less than 40,000 - and not on the basis of income resulting from the deduction of their costs? Unless you think that you should not submit a tax declaration. I repeat, do you feel that socially such arrangements can be accepted? You are calling for the abolition of the restrictions on the new CAP and for the inadmissibility of the reductions in aid. But of course you know that the new CAP was adopted in 2014 by the coexistence of the New Democracy and the PASOK, we did not agree and can only be revised in 2017. I hold your proposals until then, I will even expect you to update them in 2017 and I guarantee that I will respond as a good manager of the agricultural issues of European policy, as Vangelis Boutas has called me. You are asking for many more, such as guaranteed prices for products, guarantees for their payments. What can we do? It is contrary to the Community framework and we cannot commit ourselves. We can't make such a move. But our concern and effort is how to raise the pie, how to create new wealth, how to increase employment. We are not confronted with farmers. We are constantly confronted with their problems. They know that our government pays the account of the New Democracy and the PASOK. They know that we are paying for the demagogy and the client networks of their coexistence in the space. The customer networks that had been set up to the detriment of small and medium-sized farmers. They know that we are putting order in the chaos of their payments. In December we paid a total of 2 billion. One billion, two hundred million, of basic aid and compensatory aid and 800 million, for outstanding amounts from 2008 to 2014 and compensation. The amount paid - that's - went to the rural area. Of course there are loose ends, of course, and there are problems, such as those of young farmers, who have lost their rights because of the rental of the fields from the parents. It's gonna be a solution. It is, ladies and gentlemen, the architecture of the new CAP itself at national level, which creates problems of bureaucracy and delays. Nevertheless, we have paid the first instalment of the basic payment in time, at the moment - I repeat once again - that most European countries have not made the payments in question. The most important thing, however, is that all legal procedures under the Community regulation have been respected in order to avoid new fines and charges which have actually evolved into a curse on the agricultural sector. There is a 15% reduction in the CAP budget. I can tell you that in relation to the losses caused by the imposition of fines and charges by the European Union in previous years. They were losses which, in the end, were borne by the Greek farmer and the Greek taxpayer. We have received financial corrections and allocations from the European Commission totalling EUR 3 billion. Half of these are fines for the mismanagement of Community aid, and the other half are recoveries, such as the wonderful packages of Hatzigakis, Mauraiti, Near. You, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, ask that the subsidies granted illegally should not be repaid. We are fighting for small and medium-sized farmers not to pay at least 80% of the farmers. And you can be sure we're going to get this fight, we're going to win this fight. Every year, too, we had fines of between 300 and 350 million for pastures. In 2015 we broke tradition, it was the first time that the European Commission's control did not result in a fine. We absorbed in 2015 from the outgoing rural development program in difficult conditions, record amount compared to previous years. We are serving and will continue to serve the peculiarities and difficulties of rural areas. We update and tighten up the National Register of Farmers on the basis of the new proposal that we have submitted to the institutions for the purpose of determining the principal occupation of a farmer. There was no record. Copying the CSCE was, in the ninety thousand were the originals. With our proposal, for more than 50% of the total declared income from agriculture, the farmers concerned will be about two hundred and seventy-five thousand. The particular treatment of the main professions of farmers will exist in the Rural Development Programme and at the same time, of course, it is currently being discussed with the institutions in the negotiations that we are doing both on taxation and on insurance, without, of course, implying that there will be a negative impact on the agriculture of the rest of the province. Agriculture is an activity which is intertwined with rural survival. I am tabling this amendment. It has already been filed with the General Secretariat of the Government. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are starting to intervene in the cost of production by rationalising the marketing and handling of supplies, while we are in a process of negotiation with the Banks Union, for the issue of the farmer's card, as a tool for the liquidity problem facing the place. It will soon be completed the process of establishing it, which will be linked and which will have the aid of each farmer as a credit line. The consultation - and there has been exhaustive dialogue - has been completed in the draft law on the new framework for cooperation submitted to Parliament at the beginning of the week. After the well-known waste and bankruptcy fiasco in the operation of the cooperative space, even PASPEGES has left the rural area without institutional representation. I would like to stress once again that the administrative and financial audit reports of the old organisations, namely PASPEGES, GESSA and SYDASE, have all been forwarded to the competent judicial authorities. I also emphasise once again that no financial support has been granted to these organisations, as provided for in Article 14 of Law 4015/2011, which will, of course, be abolished after the adoption of the framework law on the functioning of cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, we also want to put order in the gray zones. The channels are propagandaing that we have told the farmers that they have been taxed. What we have said - I am self-determination - is that there is tax evasion in the area which has farmers themselves as main victims. That is why we need to clarify the gray zone that the evidence shows that there is, in particular, the movement of agricultural products. Should this belt be lighted up, yes or no? However, when they have nothing to fear farmers themselves. On the other hand, they have to be afraid of the middlemen and all the circuits that plunge the rural space, the farmer's trouble, to ensure undeclaredly overprofit. Ladies and gentlemen, in the European Union, the average price of the producer with the average consumer price cannot be 1 to 3.5 and in our country it should be 1 to 7. There must be substantial intervention in this part and we must all try together. The farmers themselves need to be involved in this process, because they will ultimately be the beneficiaries. Should undeclared work in the rural area be concerned, or not, ladies and gentlemen? Of course, yes. That is why we are introducing the mistress as a basic instrument for paying employment. If we are able at first to approach one-third of this work, then we are talking about revenues from the OGA which exceeds a maximum of EUR 100 million. This regulation, not only will satisfy a fair request for years unresolved by farmers, but will enable them to justify this expenditure as an operational exit to their business, while also resolving a democratic problem and not just a human problem. This is essentially a very large section. We also establish the compulsory keeping of books of revenue - expenditure and invoices for all agricultural products, without, of course, finding the limit - to create bureaucratic procedures. It must be understood by the farmers that the most advantageous will be themselves, since only then will they be able to deduct from their gross income the total amount actually high production costs. We will speed up, after consultation with the Treasury and the Treasury, the repayments due to the State. There are indeed problems. It is well-known that our country is experiencing budgetary conditions. But there will be this agreement to help the necessary liquidity in this period. The ELGA, which will pay from mid-February and every month until June 20-25 million for damages in the first half of 2015 and OPECEP, which will pay in February some 50 million for related aid, unsuccessful outstandings and indemnities of producers who participated in the Russian embargo programme. There are a lot of problems. A lot is handled. There's more. But there is also a reality, which has been particularly ignored by the media. The agricultural sector lies, friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, in a development path. All figures show that agricultural income in Greece after a 20% fall in 2010-2014 period increased according to data from EUROSTAT in 2014-2015 by 12.1%. I am tabling this report because it is us who, when there is negative evidence, invoke EUROSTAT. To invoke it and now that there is a positive element for the rural area. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As well, a positive element after decades, according to the Panhellenic Association of Exporters, is that exports of agri-food products increased by 22% in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is a major supplier of agricultural products in international markets, with a significant presence on most markets in the EU and OECD member countries. I would particularly like to stress the injustice that has been done in the greatest exhibition of all times in our country, Agrotika. Not a minute of images from all the media that had a thousand five hundred exhibitors from forty one country and a hundred and twenty-eight thousand visitors in four days, with the well-known operating conditions. What's that called? Offer to the rural area? We have before us, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the new revised Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020 Community aid of EUR 4.7 billion and total investment expenditure of EUR 6 billion. Specifically for youth support, the new programme provides for a twofold package for farmers as forty years with the aim of staying and returning thousands of young people to the region. Our main objective is to work forward with a focus on development measures. Our basic tool in this effort will be the producer organisations. We will work with farmers to achieve not only the absorption of resources, but above all efficiency. We are serving the future of the rural area in response to the demands of our time at the look at the younger generations of producers. We are starting with vision and design a deep radical reform of the rural area. The main objectives of our project are three. First of all, it is the adequacy of basic quality agricultural food products, which means improving the commercial balance of agricultural products and reducing food dependence on the first criterion, of course, hygiene and quality. Secondly, it is the resolution of the immediate and mature problems of the rural economy, in order to remain in production today, while reducing the impact of the commitments made by the really painful agreement and the implementation of the transitional parallel reconstruction programme. Thirdly, it is the remodelling of the rural economy and productive reconstruction at a future look, where the effective use of Pillar II of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme is clearly influencing. For this reform, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard nothing from those who brought the rural area into the present situation. We shall exhaust all possibilities of support for farmers in the conditions that have been created. I would point out, however, once again that "Apostle package" is not going to exist because we respect the farmer, because we respect the Greek citizen! Enough of the next generations have been charged! Our Government is obliged to resolve rapidly, economically, structural and social problems in dead time, under pressure, indeed, an agreement which requires immediate budgetary measures with consequences. This mandate, ladies and gentlemen, has been given to us by the Greek people and we will serve with all our powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and three educational sessions from the 7th Patras High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliament's representatives now have the floor. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u246	I only have six minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u247	Yes, because Mr. Kutsubas has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u248	Minister, it's true that we have different starting points. The Communist Party of Greece, from Greece's accession to the European Union, has told the truth and especially about the farm. We have said - and we have confirmed - that the European Union's common agricultural policy will be the destruction of the country's small and medium-sized farmers and productive infrastructure. We've been verified! The farm experiences it in its skin. And farmers appreciate the sincerity of the Communist Party of Greece! They say you fooled them. And so is it. You continue with your position. And at the same time reject their requests. You said that their income increased by 12% in 2013-2014. You also moved us on with the paper of EUROSTAT. However, you should also show the EUROSTAT paper that since the crisis, the farm has lost over 50% of its income. And now the farmer fights survival, he fights to live, stay and cultivate his field, feed his family. All those people on the roadblocks, from Orestia to Crete, are masochists and dawn two weeks and in the cold? But you forgot to say that there is also the study of the Institute of GSE - a day ago - which shows that 2/3 of farmland is below the poverty line! You told us that 90% of the OGA is from the state budget. And yet, in the 2016 budget you cut 100 million and you forget to tell us how much the state owes it from its contributions to the OGA. And I am not only talking about the current government, but about all the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. In fact, when it was time to pay proportionately, then you changed the system not to pay farmers. And, of course, you wondered: 'Great prices now in the farm'. But the kilowave is now honored in PPC and quite a scooper. You have an honor to H.V.I.I.E.L.D. in the field, in the warehouse, at home. You have a price for the VAT. Specific values. And they're gone! You have announced and made it clear: the Farmers' Register. It is such that it literally cleans up to the poor farmers who, to survive, had to do another job. In other words, the village's cafeteria or barber or the wardrobe in the summer, which is not enough for his small property to live, now you throw him off to Kaidas, you declassify him. It's, of course, four hundred thousand people on top. You're declaring the poorest, and you're enchanting. You should be ashamed of yourself! As far as the bachelor is concerned, is it not your obligation for every worker, whoever he is, to be insured when working and for sale as a major conquest? The farmer's card: you announced it again. Looks like you've forgotten. When you were opposition from Mr. Tsipras on the Waggos tractor from Castle had announced it. And I don't know how many more times you're going to announce it. But what did you not say, Minister? You did not say that days ago you announced that from this card, which is farmers' subsidies, when they owe, you will confiscations and even escalators. And you know that that's illegal. I mean, you don't leave them in a green clay! And it's challenging to say when thousands of protesters were on the farmers' blocks yesterday, with employees, retired people, children. In fact, they have given a signal of optimism, determination, that this mass struggle will continue. In most cities the protesters ended up in the farm blocks, even in the Attica region, even in Markopoulos and the Megaras. Looks like you didn't get the message. Tax and insurance don't you dare bring them! And one and the other are felonies! And the message they sent yesterday is that fear doesn't nurture the people and let blackmail go. On the one hand, you say destabilization and, on the other, salute the strike. Let me say something. Don't pretend you don't know. Two months ago, on 4 December 2015, representatives of the Associations of Agricultural Associations of Thessaly came to your Ministry. You talked an hour. In fact, they gave you their requests which are and the requests of the blocking coordinator. You were asked for specific things, and what did you answer? 'Institutionality'. So you got her back as a mockery, literally. You say 'We can only take these measures, otherwise we will be outside the European Union'. But remember, seven months ago you called them a tombstone. Our rapporteur has submitted them. So the policy of the European Union, with which the current coup d'état and the previous governments of New Democracy and PASOK, agree, are the same. And farmers must not forget it, but fight against these policies of the European Union and the Greek governments, which are destroying them. To have complete information: Yes, and in France these days there are great mobilisations of farmers and farmers. There are also the victims of the CFP and of the European Union, as well as the embargo on Russia. The agricultural income decreased in 2013-2014 by 30% - please! - and their debts are drowning in the bank. They have reached such a height that they are at risk of losing their homes as are small and medium-sized farms. Their debts are drowning and they know well that the demolition will follow. A word on the primary sector. Look, there are areas that could develop and secure jobs and you shrink them. For example, the Sugar Industry. At the moment, you have not paid the customs producers, when the sowing season begins this month. How will they grow again after they've not been paid? How will the factories work without having the raw material? So you want the closure of these factories that have been left behind. Does the country need sugar? Of course! Why do you not create the terms and conditions of their production? Because there are specific interests of a monopoly group! And you put your back on! The same goes for livestock farming. We're in deficit! We know that there is a need to get into the process of a new population. We are talking about young farmers. How did you help them? With aid towels, disaster programs, which put dolphins in the neck rather than help to stay in the sector. But yesterday's great, dynamic, totalitarian strike shows the way of claiming through the coordination of the action and the struggle of the small and medium-sized villages of the city, the workers, the female pension and youth movement against the European Union, governments and the parties of the Euro-modal road that want us slaves in the 21st century. But there is a solution. Developments themselves say there are objective preconditions, with a different organisation of the economy and society, for people's prosperity. We will continue to support the fight against the farm. We don't charge you the sins of previous governments. But we charge you that you continue them, that you intensify them, that you make them more inhuman, more violent. Of course, you can't be different. They were together, hug the third memorial. You are inclined to the CFP and the European Union. You're right, well, you're blamed for having fooled them. But the next few days will give even stronger struggles. Flevari's fourth guarantee was guaranteed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u250	Madam President, I, too, want 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u251	Now, what are we gonna do? We're going to leave tonight so there's an equivalency?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u252	You won't be taking any care of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u253	Mrs. Manolaku took her next year. Nothing's been abused.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u254	I'll give my next year, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u255	You don't have any next year, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u256	Why, does Mrs Manolaku have her?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u257	You don't have any next year, Mr. Brutsi. Only Mrs. Manolaku has. You're confused. This is a timely question. It's not a bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u258	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u259	It's good before we know the time to be able to manage it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u260	Don't complain. The President will show tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u261	You know I'm always diligent, but we won't make it by night.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u262	Okay, Madam President. You're the best.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Arachovite, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, within a suffocating, economic, international and national framework that we are also called upon to manage an insurance system on the brink of collapse, the government is always trying to overcome the consequences of the necessary reform in the rural area, while respecting the basic principle of social justice with regard to the other classes affected. Let us agree that the OGA should be reformed in a less subsidised fund that will gradually demonstrate, and in the light of economic size, sustainability. This objective is commonly accepted in the Chamber. However, I do not see the Members of the Communist Party share the same view, since they propose that there should be no increase in social security contributions to the fund. If you want, in a changing economic regime, our country's farmer founded on the famous low pension of the OGA, which also entails stable low premiums for your proposal, we will not agree with you. The national drafting of our proposal is also guaranteed for the rural world. You should also explain to the farmers in our country, while maintaining the low premiums, when they will end the fund's money and will eliminate these poor today's pensions. To farmers with low incomes in our proposal pensions will increase. For example, a UAA insured person with twenty years of insurance in main insurance, from now on, with the minimum monthly insurance income of EUR 468 per month, will receive with the current 333 euro system, while with the government proposal 463. In other words, there will be a 43% increase. The OGA today grants a number of benefits and pensions not derived from the contributions of insured farmers. Apart from that, with regard to the social aspect of the OGA, which is covered by the state budget, we need to see seriously and responsibly what happens with the pensions of the farmers of independent bodies. I do not think anyone in this Chamber shares the view that the farmer should be satisfied with an allowance instead of a pension. However, if we agree that a reform and a gradual effort is needed to achieve sustainability, then agree and in what direction this reform will be, on whose backs the burden of participation must fall on proportionately increased premiums and the depth of the time that will take place. Because in our proposal there are both these elements. It is precisely in our proposal that the contribution should be linked to income, which I imagine will be in agreement with the colleagues of the Communist Party, and that there should be no reasonable, nor should there be any constitutional approach to this increase in contributions based on age. With our proposal the minimum annual contribution for a farmer is gradually formed by 2019 at 20% of net taxable income, but the insurance costs will be deducted from taxable income. We should stress the fact that the contribution in any case follows the same general rules as employees and freelance professionals. Given that the farmer paid low premiums to the OGA, the change will be gradual and for each year until 2019 the increase, in relation to the current system, will vary, for the majority of 62% today, to the insured in the third insurance category gradually and at less than 20% per year. We recognise that this final increase is important. However, we must stress that it is the government's intention to explore alternatives both in the direction of prolonging change, if you want, and after 2019 and in our opinion important, that of the total amount of family contribution at family farm level. Of course, as the Minister for Labour has announced, family work can now be recognised at the total cost of the farm. The husband of the leader of the agricultural holding and the adult children can now be paid and insured with a bachelor’s pension. With this development, a consistent request from farmers for recognition of family work is being met as an exit. At the same time, there will be complete medical and pension coverage. I insist, however, that adding proportionality to income is the one that gives the sense of justice to the citizens and gives dignity to farmers' pensions rather than staying in the current approach, which will lead to the break-up of the insurance fund and the loss of today's pension - hunger in a few years' time. However, I think that, in the tax, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, you are a little confused, because you do not clearly tell us in your proposal who exactly thinks you big farmers should be taxed at a higher rate. If poor farmers are, as you say, the people with the 40,000 net family income, what is the income you consider to be high? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would like a little more of your tolerance. Here we have to be careful: with the information we have, if we follow these proposals, the phenomena of social automation against farmers, which we have known so many years ago, will continue. We must not ideologically allow this approach to continue for farmers in our country. On the contrary, they are - and they must be - pillars of productive reconstruction. And it is our duty to prevent distortion and unfair image of parasiticism through subsidies and the absence of taxation. The squirrel must not be identified with our country's rural world. We must isolate those who have raised and ideologically support this approach. We have reiterated several times that in 2016 there will be no change in neither the calculation nor the method of taxation for farmers in relation to what is currently in force. On the legislative initiative of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, the current government, the tax on agricultural aid of up to 12 000 euros, which account for 92% of all agricultural subsidies and the full tax on compensation. On the contrary, the then government voted in 2013 to tax all subsidies and allowances from the first euro. According to data from the Ministry of Finance, with the modification of Mr. 4172 183 million euro tax was paid for the incomes of 2014. With the full implementation of the n. 41722013 this tax would be multiple.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u265	Complete, Mr. Arachovite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u266	Yes, Madam President, give me some time. As far as the gradual increase in the tax rate is concerned, it is true that with 4336, the law passed by the House with a large majority in the summer, in the revenues of 2016, which will be taxed in 2017, does indeed provide for an increase in the tax rate. I would remind you, however, that the tax is the subject of negotiating with the partners in a more general tax reform. Here, at a point we will agree with the approach of the Communist Party, which is the classicity of the Common Agricultural Policies, which have been implemented so far and today, which, as you know well, was adopted, legislated, proposed in the summer of 2014 and was legislated on 22 January 2015, i.e. only three days, Friday, before the elections. So it commits the country to implementing this classic indeed common agricultural policy. However, in the summer of 2016, our proposal, which will be made in the mid-term review of 2017, is being prepared so that it is in line with the agenda and the positions of our SYRIZA party, so that this classicity will be lifted as far as possible within the framework of the Common Agricultural Policies. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to make a very brief reference to the major legislative interventions which the government is preparing for the next period and which are part of the national production reconstruction plan, as the Minister has said in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u267	You'll have a chance at another meeting, Mr. Arachovite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u268	Sure. Only one of them will be addressed, Madam President. Just one of them. I will address the resolution of the question of the legal employment of migrant land workers irregularly resident in our country. We are therefore putting an end to the Manolad phenomena which, unfortunately, we have a lot of them in Greece. I hope that the whole House will embrace it and vote for it, at least for the reason that it will save its honour. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has found an economy broken down, a society within its limits and an environment sedated. But she's disgusting society, fighting at her side, and with society we're standing up! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Brutsis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u270	No more than eleven minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u271	No, we won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u272	Ladies and gentlemen, by listening to the Minister just before he was placed, it was made clear to him that what is happening today in the Greek countryside, namely the farmers on the streets and especially the young farmers, Mr Minister, is there because they just want to demonstrate their great happiness for your successful agricultural policy! However, we must all know that farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen and all the Greeks, that what they are experiencing today, namely the threat of the extermination of contributions, the major reductions in pensions, the abundant increase in taxation, would not happen if you simply continued the household, the reforms, structural changes and were simply implementing these few, mild insurance adjustments that had left. You have canceled the sacrifices of the Greek people, whom you are calling today, together with the farmers, to undergo new sacrifices this time without hope. Farmers, pensioners, unemployed, workers, entrepreneurs, pay the price of populism, your irresponsible and dangerous policy! The derailment of the economy in the years 2015-2016 reduced GDP by 7%, i.e. EUR 12 billion. Of these, 3.2 billion euros were transferred as a burden to the insurance company. Everyone knows that today, because that is what farmers are paying today, that is what the Greek people are paying for with the extermination of the contributions you are proposing. You are now reaping what you sow: the behaviours of your insurmountable populism, when SYRIZA executives were in all the blocks, headed by the Prime Minister himself, the false expectations you have cultivated, the thirteenth pension, debt seismicism, the abolition of HISH, the strengthening of agricultural production by reducing taxation, the cancellation of reforms, as you prevented reforms to be completed, resulting in very negative consequences for the economy. The New Democracy believes that the country cannot come out of the crisis without a strong primary sector, without farmers and without Greek producers, who will be the same protagonists in this effort. For the New Democracy farmers are the protagonists of the country's productive reconstruction. This world, this productive potential is deceived by your Government and by Mr. Tsipras himself personally. The New Democracy shares farmers' agony. Their indignation is justified, after false promises were made to them. What would anyone want to do first? SYRIZA's parade of SYRIZA officials on all the roadblocks or Mr. Tsipra's performance on a tractor? Having said this, let me clarify three things concerning the New Democracy: Firstly, the New Democracy is ready to enter into an organised dialogue with farmers, which will at its heart be the country's productive reconstruction and the role of Greek producers. Secondly, for insurance and taxation, we cannot accept the horizontal measures proposed by the government to be fair and move in the right direction. Thirdly, we are opposed to extreme mobilisations which make the lives of many harder and make the situation worse and sometimes unfair the producers themselves. The proposals for farmers are not only serious, but are the definition of bias and prove how ideological and populist you are. You are denounced insultingly and splitting and you are constantly doing so - as you have done today - farmers, that their mobilisations are party-oriented and that they are also tax-growers. This is unacceptable with one word. You divide and divide society and you do this as a tool, using your well-known propaganda policy. But you should know that your communications terminals are over. You no longer convince anyone. All of you have understood and all you do is cause and anger. And it is not just insurance, it is also tax charges, such as an increase in tax advances from 27.5% to 100%, the abolition of the refund of VAT on oil for farmers, the reduction in half of the subsidy for heating oil, the increase in VAT on agricultural supplies from 13% to 23%, the increase in VAT on packaged agricultural products to 23%, the other. 4325/2015 Article 21 for taxing subsidies and subsidies on farmers. Afterwards, to golden the pill, you also put the 12,000 euro tax-free. That's the truth. Farmers, especially the Aegean Sea, starting with my special homeland Naxos, will be charged, such as Samos, Chios, Mytilini and the islands of Dodecanese as of 1 June 2016 with abolishing the special VAT system. All this, ladies and gentlemen, has a stamp and signature, the seal of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and Mr Tsipras himself. That is what Greek citizens must know. Since 2010 - and I would like a little attention, I am addressing the SYRIZA side - the Greek authorities have agreed with the Troika, i.e. the PASOK government, the OGA Fund, to stay out of v. 3863/2010, which the troika has respected. Since 2012 I have had the honour of leading the Ministry of Labour until 2014 again with the troika there has been an agreement with the farmers' fund due to the special nature and special weight for the country's productive reconstruction to remain out of v. 3863, i.e. autonomous. Even in December 2014 in the last discussions with the Troika, when the administrative integration of the funds was settled, there was still an agreement with the Troika then that there should be three funds and among them the OGA should remain autonomous. I think it is insulting and challenging today, but also economically and safely ineffective, for the government to state and even to rejoice that the conception of the creation of a fund is an achievement of your left ideology. We in the New Democracy today have made it clear that we want to maintain the OGA as an autonomous fund. We did it. It is also a challenge that you are giving for the OGA Fund. It's false, it's misleading, because everyone knows - and you're trying to cover it up - that the OGA doesn't have the characteristics of a purely insurance fund. It's a very privileged fund. That is why his assessment and your presence are not correct and should not be assessed under the criteria of an insurance fund. So let farmers know that the OGA fund has just begun to acquire characteristics of an insurance fund with n. 2458/1997. In fact, today's picture, for example, is sixty-seven thousand five-seven-four pensioners with a monthly cost of EUR 228.268.022 - February 2016 figures - is not the true picture, as far as the result of the OGA Fund is concerned, in the sense that purely insurance features will begin to be acquired after 2026. In our proposal, too, there was no question - and I am making it clear, for farmers to hear - an increase in insurance contributions, only the implementation of the n. 4254/2014, i.e. the electronic network that ensured transparency, justice and efficiency, as it would identify those who did not pay and receive the unpaid contributions of only one year - I repeat, only one year! - not more than. In other words, the withholding product could be up to the amount of the debts corresponding to the annual insurance contributions. And that would give a breath, a cashflow in the OGA 120,000,000 euros a year. Is it not fair, Minister, that I am addressing the government rather than you - without increasing the contributions of only those who owe us one year, rather than tripling the farmers' contributions? Of course it is. This was also mentioned by the President of the New Democracy the day before yesterday by the House, when he tabled our proposals for insurance. You, however, insist on the ideological perception of the extermination of contributions. Wrong! It's a big mistake. Today everyone is aware that your proposal is a mechanism for reducing pensions and expropriating contributions. This is not about reform. It's not reform. You just baptised it for reform to hide inside and integrate the EUR 3.2 billion reductions in pension costs that you agreed on. One more thing: Your proposal eliminates everything productive and creative in Greek society. It is unprecedented that you have put all production Greece to you - and that is no accident - among them and farmers. You are undermining with your proposal the insurance conscience, punishing work and creativity and rewarding the modest effort. Gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in a few words today it is very obvious as ever, after a year of governance of the SYRIZA, that two ideas, ideas and views of truth and reform, and ideas and views of ideology and lies, are opposed in Greece. I am sure that the final winner will be the ones who defend the first, namely the truth, for the sake of our country, in realism and responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Rabbit has the floor from Golden Dawn. I hope, Mr Rabbi, because I see that you have papers, that you have been prepared for six minutes, because it seems that the tenth is now in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u274	Thank you. I would like to begin with a revulsion from the speech made by the Minister of State, Mr Apostolos, a moment ago. He turned features and at some point said that 'I cannot understand the attitude and reaction of the farmers'. It makes sense and it seems, Minister, that you have not understood it at all. You live in a magic world of your own, as well as all the coexistence you have made SYRIZA - ANEL. That's why you've made society really in the bars. It is even more funny what we are discussing today, and that is what you say here, because we only had the great mobilisation of Greek workers and of course of the Greek farmers. We have all seen what happened and stressed once again as Golden Dawn that it is not at all accident, that we condemn it, and we expect to see the reaction of the Greek state, as regards yesterday's incidents, which are said to occur at every great mobilization of Greek workers. Known unfamiliar "bugs", hoods, punks, system parastates go out in order to stop all these mobilizations taking place. These para-stated rats have been the good children of the system so far for the coexistence of the New Democracy and the PASOK, these para-stated hoodlers are the ones who are very useful now in the new coexistence of SYRIZA and ANEL. None of them dared yet to catch these spoiled boys, take them off the hoods and see who's behind them and what interests they serve. And to be sure that if we ever allow the Golden Dawn, the hoods of these rats will come out and we will see who they are and what interests they have served and served for so many years. So that we can help the primary sector and Greek farmers, we do not have to make big plans. There simply needs to be a national government, with a national conscience, which will want to help Greek workers and in this particular case Greek farmers. It is not possible, today, that there is so much unemployment in Greece, not to give incentives to new couples, to Greek unemployed people, in order to be able to exploit and give them a large extent of the existing territories belonging to the Greek state, which either deliberately or unwittingly remain completely unusable. Incentives should be given to these people in order to get, once again, the extent of the Greek land and to be able to work on this sector and on that part. It's the place of Golden Dawn that. In addition, these groups should provide the state with the structures and tools necessary not only for the simple cultivation, as we have said, but also for the reconstruction of the land and, more generally, of the villages in the countryside, which, on the basis of a plan, have been devastated and it is very easy, if there really is - I say again - to make them live again. Another position on the Golden Dawn is that it could and must be created one or more fertiliser production factories that will sell fertilisers at prices just above the cost. These plants will be created immediately and the creation will be carried out through the Public Investment Programme. The depreciation of expenditure will be very easy and short and it will be quick, because imports of fertilisers from abroad will be eliminated, and production costs will be reduced to allow farmers to cultivate more land. Also, this will help to lower the sale price so that many Greek citizens can buy Greek products, which they want and seek, but these agreements made by previous and current anti-national governments have led the world to buy olive oil from Tanzania and lemons from Afghanistan! There you have reached the Greek farms. The great carpet also - and we all know it very well, but no one dares to fight - are the big cartels, which are also exploiting the trouble of the Greek farmer, but of course the Greeks' money that goes to the supermarket or anywhere else to buy the products. They are the ones who enter and save huge benefits from them. The Golden Dawn says that a state agency should be set up to monitor the process of trade between farmers and traders, especially during the harvesting of products. We are talking about mixed scales of financial control, consisting of officials from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Rural Development, touring the harvesting and handling of products and controlling virtual invoices, blocs and, in general, the other illegal ones. It's very easy to do all this. There is no will, and we are only talking about taxation. These are the ways we find, to fight everything that's going on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In addition, there should be a subsidy for agricultural production from the special fund resulting from the exploitation of Greek hydrocarbons, in particular in the remote areas, in Thrace and the islands of the East Aegean, carefully designed local production organisation, with the obligation to establish producer groups which will produce products that thrive in the region, without the requirement of many inputs, protection of the Greek environment from pesticides of the various multinational monsanto styles, an orderly shift to organic agriculture, with the aim of protecting the sacred environment of our country from the chemical fertilisers of these foreign coliforms and the immediate cessation of the loss of foreign exchange. Golden Dawn says that the Agricultural Bank should be re-established under state control, with which it will be able to serve the Greek farmers, and not, as at the moment, to have left them herds on the fingernails of various foreign cords, who have come to take the land away from them, the land that belongs to all Greeks. You gave them a lot of loans ten, fifteen years ago, you made them mortgage the land they had and now various foreign colossians will come to get all this. This will also happen to our long-standing Thrace, where there are already Turkish banks, which give loans at very low rates, so that these lands can also be bought, for centuries, by means of Greek land, to be slowly lost through our hands. Incentives should be given to the chains for the distribution of agricultural products, such as supermarkets, to promote agricultural products in particular. These are, very briefly, only some of the solutions proposed by the Golden Dawn, solutions that no one needs to be a lighter to propose, but have simple logic and will in order to implement them and above all to know what is happening in Greek society. As Golden Dawn, we welcome the struggles of Greek farmers. I wish they would make other groups of Greek workers, all these years that some carclockedaurs have been selling us out every day in this place. We must fight all Greeks in and out of Parliament. Finally, I would like to emphasise and say something that everyone wants to bury because it is not in any interest to them: this coexistence, putting before the Minister, who is allegedly not left, the patriotic minister, Kammenos, creates in the region of Shhistos, five hundred meters from the residences where people live and work in the flat, a new centre of illegal immigrants of about five thousand people. The Greek residents of the region have made an announcement and have invited the world to be on Monday at 12.30" in Gregorios Labraki and Chistos Avenue, in order not to do this. In fact, the committee of residents which visited us, which also sent to the other parties, obviously asked for our help, as requested by local bodies, from various parties in the Greek Parliament, from all. We, as Golden Dawn, will be present and happily or sadly - say it so that these people can hear it and see it on Monday - only we will be there, because we are the only ones fighting to stay Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u275	Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR, for six minutes. I appeal: only for six minutes. I don't know what to say anymore. I've filed the guns.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the country needs a national rural development plan and not policies that will lead to a vicious recession. We need a vision, a plan, reforms and not a delusion that leads to unjust measures. Just a few days ago I saw publicity that there will be a debate in the spring and a national rural development plan will be tabled, almost a year and a half after the government has been taken over by SYRIZA. You can file it and then, at the end of the four-year period, but the point is to produce one and a farmer has left in the field until then. So we now need a national rural development plan. We, in the Democratic Alliance, have made clear proposals for the verticalisation of production, the interconnection of research with agricultural production, how producer groups and cooperatives work, how this function will be done, in order to achieve economies of scale and how to protect agricultural incomes. The measures which the government is now planning to go through will lead - and this is commonly accepted - to a reduction in production, to an increase in unemployment and to an increase in deficits, unless you consider that all these measures and all this burden will not lead to some outside production, outside the production process. Farmers are taxed - and we must say that - already, like the other professional groups, after the change in 2013, with the revenue and expenditure books. In that socially just change, unfortunately, SYRIZA then as a Qualified Opposition was across the street. I have heard you a moment ago say to the Members who have tabled the question that the proposal for non-recovery of books of revenue - expenditure gives them the brunt of the intermediaries. We agree with the revenue and expenditure books and it was our proposal at the time and proceeded, but you did not have the same view at that time. I see here that last year, in the programme statements on 11 February, when you inaugurated the Pan-Hellenic Agricultural Report in Larissa, you said about two of the measures 'not on the creation of revenue and expenditure books' and 'a reduction in the price of oil up to the creation of agricultural oil'. And a post of the newspaper "AGEY" a year ago, in which you said "not in the revenue-cost books". I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we say that that change, which had been made, was the right one, and it was the right one that there were not all the things you mentioned a moment ago in relation to the mediators. You are moving on to the taxation of Community aid, which will finally be at 26%. We have taken EUR 19 billion for the next seven years, namely the one that has been running, which has started, in which you said at the time that the reduction is important, which of course was not significant. There was no substantial reduction, it was minimal because other countries had entered, and the pie had been opened. It was 19 billion which you now tax with 26%. Let us make this clear for all the measures, in relation to aid and the proposed clearing of debts with the aid I was listening to a moment ago. The European Union supports farmers from all countries so that there can be equal Community competition. A country cannot exaggerate Community aid more than all the others or a country can offset more than all the others and create such issues. Recently, in the previous period, the previous Commissioner for Rural Development, Mr Chiololos, had come - and what I am saying to you is supportive of your negotiation, it is not contrary to the negotiation - and he said that each country cannot create and offset and tax more than the other countries, because he is outside Community competition. Use at least those that were achieved in that negotiation and which we now see are not being used. You proceeded to increase the VAT on agricultural supplies from 13% to 23%. He's unprecedented for the whole Eurozone. No eurozone country has 13%. When you were in Opposition, you said "why isn't it reduced?" And you're here to take it from 13% to 23%. General abolition of the refund on oil. We said she was unfair. As you have seen, for each of these measures we have a solution for an effective negotiation. In other words, the abolition of the oil tax could be implemented - and we have said so - provided that agricultural diesel was introduced, as in most countries of the European Union. We tabled an amendment on 3 November calling in particular for a rural oil card to be introduced as from 1 January 2016, in which the quantity of oil that the holder is entitled to incorporate. We have said who the beneficiaries will be on the basis of the criteria - objectively, acres, crop type - and of course, on the basis of the IAC declaration by type of crop, area and livestock. You did not accept it, and I come to tell you that, if you proceeded to see these arrangements in November, we would not have these events now. For farmers would see fair changes in front of them and they could, of course, also take some measures if they had seen such social changes. We told you, we asked you to. You didn't accept her in the bill. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point Members Athanasios Theocharopoulos tables for the Minutes the above amendment, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we have recently tabled all our proposals on these issues that you have not gone through. We heard a moment ago that you were doing or want to make a fight against interplanetary space. Milk: Can I give you an example of milk? In milk the OECD report speaks mainly of high profit margins in retail chains, rather than of an increase in milk life. So then we had moved to support in the first five days. Then they rose from five to seven days, and of course, they had never been opened in eleven days. So we ask you this: will you bring a ministerial decision that you will leave the days open for milk? Because it is precisely here that we have to deal with what you said, one to seven. For a year now I have heard you say about 1 to 7, a producer price ratio at a consumer price. The point is, what do we do, though? What does the government do for 1 to 7? Do we see it and come here every few months, in every debate and say about the distance between the producer price and the consumer price? You said that there were exhaustive dialogues with farmers. If they did, it means someone's in trouble. If you think the farmers have a problem, and they don't understand, say it. Otherwise, there's the problem on the Ministry side. You brought the example of France and said how they discuss and how they discuss in France. Why don't you bring France's example and what happens to all these issues, however, which we are discussing in relation to agricultural oil, in relation to taxation? We have the evidence. To see what is happening in France in relation to farmers in these matters and what is happening in our country? You have indeed spoken in relation to tax evasion. However, because you bring back and bring back the issue of tax evasion, I would like to say something to you. If there is tax evasion, as with all professional classes and farmers, the government can fight it. And that's not just about your ministry. To fight it. We cannot, however, talk about farmers and the production process, because there are people who are both consistently tax and who are trying to cope with it. Nor can we - because I have heard government officials charge all producers to extreme right-wing groups, if ever possible...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u277	You fall victim to an entire...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u278	I'm not talking to you. I talked about government officials. I think we will agree here that producers and producer groups who are protesting at the moment have requests which are reasonable. Of course, when they exist, they should be condemned, but they should be specific. You said you did not have any charges for this year to which you referred. Look, most of the charges - and you know it well - come after two years from the European Union. You are well aware of the procedure for most of the fines and as far as the fines are concerned. Therefore, because there are years of problems here - there is no doubt that there are years of problems - let us wait to see how each authority manages this issue. Finally, I would like to say another thing about the question, because it has been tabled by the Members of the JRC. I respect their view of going out of the European Union, getting out of the euro or from the common agricultural policy because it has these disadvantages. It is a clear view which in any case is stable over time. But, reading the question and I had some questions at some point. For example, you refer to the question that you are against aid cuts. But, on the basis of the proposal from the Communist Party of Greece, there will be no aid. So the reduction in aid cuts here is something that comes next, and I imagine that it does not matter. I am simply saying this because I was impressed by the fact that I am well aware of the stability of your specific positions. We could say a lot more, but we will have opportunities to talk about all these issues. Finally, I would like to remind you - and this is what I will conclude - that the following statements are made: 'If we do not reconstruct agricultural production, we will always be a debt colony', 'If there is no cheap oil, cheap electricity and liquidity, we cannot reconstruct the rural economy', 'We cannot give duty-free oil to shipowners and farmers to pay'. Who declared them? The Prime Minister said so before the January elections. Here alone, the waste of Abraham Lincoln is enough: "You can make fun of many for a little, a few for a lot, but not many forever." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-seven students and students and five educational attendants from Farcadonas Trigalos High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Amyras has the floor for six minutes, wishing to be observed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek farmers say it better than anyone here in the Chamber: the tree from its fruits seems. So let us see the tree of Greek agriculture, of Greek livestock farming, of the Greek agricultural world. Minister, I will also invoke EUROSTAT's figures for the years 2004-2014, that is, for a decade, which has been overwhelming to the detriment of agricultural production and the agricultural world. Why? So, listen: In cereals, in this decade, 23% of the fields that were marginal in terms of their fertility were abandoned. In industrial plants, such as cotton, beet, tobacco and sunflower, we had a 60% reduction in areas cultivated. Do you think that? Also, refreshed legumes and fodder plants had a reduction in production by 22%. In horticulture, where one would hope that Greece could be ahead due to climatic and territorial conditions, we had a reduction in land and production by 28% and 26%. We are talking about extinction of agricultural production here. Finally, in order not to leave the farm behind, we were - take care - reducing production for beef by 26%, sheep by 34%, pork by 30% and cow's milk by less than 11%. That's an extinction. This is a breakthrough and our country does not have many options and many outlets in a different sector, as far as primary production is concerned. Why all this? Because we had become accustomed for decades to a timeless 'tango' of micropoliticalism: Governments with some farmers, ministers with some agricultural trade unionists. In time, the Greek governments were sharing the CAP as a "gift" and did not even institutionalise the farmer's profession, with criteria and incentives to produce entrepreneurship, but above all the viability of the rural economy sector. It was the time 'all the pounds, all the money'. It was a time when the 'barrier Europeans' did not know. But we knew. And that is where we have now arrived, according to a 2013 publication of the magazine "TIME", in the Netherlands in a square meter to produce seven hundred pounds of tomatoes, and in Greece in one square meter to produce seven kilos of tomatoes. Why all this? As we moved without a plan as a country, we moved without a programme, without a will, with huge bureaucracy and, of course, without a land register in rural areas, without a tariff, without a land map. When you don't have the basic tools in front of you to move, you only have obstacles in front of you. Farmers on the other hand, of course, have their responsibilities too. They were left to say, hypnotized and dependent on subsidies and easy money, when it came. Could they do something more? Of course, they could. Come on, then, let's see, for example, the piece of plant propagating material. What does that mean? The country could be the first export power to produce certified seeds of quality and trees. Watch out now. Fruit tree - lemon trees, orange trees, mandarins, etc. - It takes Greece two years in the greenhouse to get their commercial size, and in the rest of Europe it takes three years, that is a year longer. We have come to be the last in exporting seeds, even in the Balkans. We export, according to data from the International Federation of Seeds, grains worth $15 million a year, when - notice - Bulgaria is exporting $20 million. To see the true peak sizes, as far as Europe is concerned, I will take you to Denmark, which exports grains and trees worth $70 million a year. The tree was said to be judged by its wrists. We in Potami are turning to the government and we say: Take advantage of the EUR 19 billion from the budget of the new common agricultural policy that will be invading Greek agriculture - they have already started coming - in 2014-2020, as decided or, if you like, co-decision on 26 September 2013. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The river also turns towards farmers, because that is where the field is, there is the first line, that is where we have to bear our weight. And I will put forward some proposals from the Rural Development and Food Sector of the Potamium, which are people of great importance, studied, scientists and the field as well as, for example, Spyros Kachrimanis, Makis, Papoulias and Ilias Emmanoulidis. I will present them to you, after I have read the basic principles of our proposal, which reads: Fair distribution of single European aid, based on acres and cultivation. Direct adoption of a law on cooperatives and producer organisations based on European standards. I'll tell you later in elementary terms what all this means. Adopt a tax-free limit and special attention to very small incomes, so that small farmers can stay in the countryside. zero taxation, 0% taxation on young farmers for the first three years of their activity. Reduced taxation for members of recognised producer organisations. And - lastly - the introduction of minimum imputable income indicators, based on IACS, in order not to increase taxation to 26%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We also say to the producers in Potami: in order to make it easier for all of you to get the middlemen out of your feet, you should be organized in small cooperatives and producer organisations to hit the oligopoly and the parade. Nor can the mediator, the trader, find a boycott for a farmer because he is in an objective economic weakness and in this way throwing and blackmailing prices against the rest of the farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This would help the e-mail register of malicious traders, as well as something that all cooperatives throughout Europe have done - we have done research and saw them - that is to say, there is an on-line platform so that these cooperatives, small producer groups, provide tax support for farmers themselves automatically. Of course, we are also calling for VAT to be refunded within a month, without increasing costs, bureaucracy and waiting. We also call for a link between agricultural production and the tourist market. I remind you that in 2010 George Pittas from the Hotel Chamber of Greece had an idea of the "Greek Product". Did he come down with a slogan "to French croissant for breakfast? No!" He went down with the slogan "Graviera Naxos", "Kouliou Thessaloniki", "Gravier of Crete", "masata Folegandros", I would say to you. So we have arrived today, after five years that began this activity, over four hundred, maybe five hundred hotels have incorporated the "Greek Product" as exclusive, for the benefit of farmers, farmers, people who work and work in the primary sector in areas that have developed and offered tourist services. The new doctrine to be found in the new rural view of things, Mr Minister, should be certification and standardisation instead of quantity. Finally the bulk of oil! No more pork oil! Italians take it and give it, because of the high beneficial qualities that Greek oil has in phenols, etc., "health strengthening" and sell the bottle in New York City 80 euros! I've seen in a hotel where I lived in Tokyo, Japan, a bottle of 250 ml of Greek olive oil from Kolymbari Chania to be honored for 120 US dollars. This is the goodwill of our country. Fortunately, there are some Greek examples, Mr Minister, which I hope you will hear from me at some point - which demonstrates the way. An example is the mastic of Chios. The European Medicines Agency has included Chios mast as a natural medicine in its lists. This was recently done on 7 August 2015. This means that it can be sold at pharmacies around the world, without recipes and no other interventions. So it opens up a huge market. Bravo to the Chios Mastic Producers Association and Dr. Ilias Smirniudi! I'm telling you all this to show you there are streets. There are farmers fighting, as there are, of course, farmers who, in their vast majority, suffer. That is why we as Potami are coming to say that we can make it easier for them to go through the following measures. I told you about some direct structural measures, but I will tell you about taxation. We believe that a reasonable tax on farmers can be at least EUR 12 000. After all, let's see the Germans, who beat the deaf and we dance. The tax on German farmers is at 18,000 euros! We also think that taxation on incomes which are presumed by the clearance of recognised producer organisations where income is not kept, should be differentiated in order not only to tax the law-abiding farmers, as much of the agricultural product is moved without documentary evidence. That's a common secret. The work of the farmer should also be recognised as an exit, as should the work of the members of his family. Furthermore, as far as social security is concerned, I am omissioning a number of issues, Madam President, so that I do not have more time - there must be three-year-old insurance contributions in three categories - that is, the Potami - in order to respond to the possibilities of all farmers. In addition, contributions should be fixed in a mixed manner, i.e. by fixed universal premiums and additional percentages, on the basis of a assumed value or on the basis of the yield of the agricultural holding.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Amyras, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u282	I shall end with that, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has a live countryside. So we should also have a rich country. Our country is the second planet in biodiversity. Just to think that Olympus, our mountain, has a thousand seven hundred species and subspecies. A hundred and ten are endemic, which means you only find them there and nowhere else in the world. Germany, with three times the size of us, has all six endemic species. So we see the huge difference. This is the country's comparative advantage: its biodiversity, its fields, its seas and above all its people. Therefore, Minister, we call on you to see in a different way, with a view to developing the rural economy and at some point to begin listening to the proposals we are tabling for you. We are tired of you on the river of shooting at you with substantiated proposals. Keep them in mind and they'll get you out of here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u283	Thank you. Mr. Lazaridis has the floor for six minutes, and then Mr. Karras has the floor for three minutes. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that if the questioners wish to give a second answer, I shall be infinitely time-consuming. Because the parliamentary representatives have been completely misused and we have exceeded all opportunities. Of course, it will also apply to the ministers in the tenth of the time they are entitled to. He'll talk, from what I hear, and Mr. Bolaris. However, I am telling you that the time will be fully measured for everyone. Here, Mr Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Madam President. I would like, because the cookie was mentioned earlier, to fill in something, because I'm from Thessaloniki and you know that Thessaloniki cookies are famous. We get good cooks and brass, etc., i.e. a lot of products that depend on the sesame. Our country produces around 1% to 2%, not up to 3%, from the sesame it needs. The remaining 97% we import. Of course, these problems are not problems that were born now, they have time. Ladies and gentlemen, agriculture has suffered an incredible decline, more than any other sector in our home economy. The start of the agricultural sector's restrictions on participation in the GDP of our country has a long time ahead. For the period 1970-80, agriculture participated at around 20% of GDP. At this time agriculture, along with the manufacturing, tourism and shipping sectors, was the spearhead of our economy, especially agriculture. But especially to us - I am going back to Macedonia - as regards fruit - peaches, table or compost, asparagus, etc. - a large sector of agricultural production was leaving on exports. But when subsidies began to come, instead of using them to improve the quality of products in which we proved to have a comparative advantage and to raise productivity, we directed and organized production on the sole criterion of collecting these Community funds. Add to them also the "sinner" cooperatives, which have been made, not for the service of farmers and agriculture, but for the restoration and settlement of party executives, known as color, and the recipe of destruction has been completed. In 1990 agriculture had already fallen to 11% to 11.5% of GDP. Here I would like to speak for a moment and remind you - and I have said so on several occasions in my place - of the words of the relentless politician, professor and thinker who has devoured with his presence, his word and his morale in our Parliament's Chamber. Athanasios Kanellopoulos said: "This figure, 11% - 11.5%, is marginal. If we fall under here, even half a unit, we must strike an alarm." We arrived in December 2014 and agriculture shrunk to 3.5%. No alarms were heard. It is tragic, especially if we consider that agriculture is an important area from which we are looking forward to a rapid change in the overall climate or, if you like, the upgrading of our economy. In order to make this abuse more noticeable in our agriculture and to understand dependence better than imports, I will tell you this: during the period 2002-2009, our imports amounted to EUR 47 billion. Do you know how many subsidies we got? It was 47 billion euros. In other words, we have received subsidies in order to subsidise imports. In other words, with the subsidies we have received, we have strengthened the economies of other countries. What is even more tragic is that, from all exports, the country from which we made greater imports of agricultural products was Germany. 13% of our imports were from Germany, and indeed we imported from Germany honey, wheat, tobacco, tomatoes, apples, and products traditionally produced by our country. We have reached this point. Of course, for these painful results those who have governed the country these years should be apologied. The government today has to change this climate and indicators. The work he has undertaken is difficult, but he will fight it for the good of the country and the Greeks. The new measures are indeed unsatisfactory, either as far as insurance or taxation are concerned. There must be improvement, Minister. I believe that the Minister, through a fruitful and constructive dialogue, on the sole criterion - which will have all the parties who sit at the dialogue table - the farmer and agriculture will make brave improvements. The country's Prime Minister invited farmers for dialogue. One initiative that can only be judged positively. One move that farmers must take advantage of and take advantage of, putting at the table dialogue with the Prime Minister all the issues that concern them. Let them not be taken away from the voices of those responsible for this situation. If they wanted the good of farmers and agriculture, they would have taken the appropriate steps earlier. There is still hope, so that we can live up to agriculture and give solutions through it to many of the problems that stifle the economy and society. With proper manipulations and incentives, new blood can enter agriculture, young people that will act as a renewal oxygen. Unemployment, especially among young people, through the programmes for young farmers, may begin to disappear. For example, the new CAP proposes that 2% of applications for direct payments should be given to young farmers. For our country this figure is translated into 300 million over seven years. These aids will be granted to young people who for the first time set up an agricultural holding or to farmers who have already settled in the last five years before the first application, the single application for aid. It is an important resource for young people, where the problem of unemployment is particularly acute. The government will have to use it immediately and without delay. The new CAP also provides for support from pillar II for new entrants in the agricultural sector. Financing related to production aid will be linked to areas with particular characteristics, as well as to specific sectors of particular interest for economic, environmental and social reasons. A total of EUR 15.4 billion has therefore been secured for direct payments, pillar I, and EUR 4.2 billion for structural and development actions, pillar II. In particular, with regard to related aids, the percentage with the new CAP is increasing from 2% to 8% or 10% together with the psychotes. Here I mean, in the souls are the legumes that have been completely abandoned. In fact, their production is down to 1/6 compared to what our homeland produced in the '70s to 80s. So then our production was in lentils around 12,000 to 12,500 tons and in 2011 our production had fallen to 2,000 to 2,200 tons. Something like that happened with the chickens and the rest of the legumes. Beneficiaries of this increase will have the right to those who currently have no rights, namely, the producers of fruit, potatoes, cow farmers, etc., with the aid they have provided, which, until now, did not strengthen these sectors. At the same time, the cultivation of psycholos can have multiple benefits for both plant production and animal by-products. After treatment, after taking the fruit for consumption, the remainder can be used as feed for livestock farming. The new CAP 2015-2020 raises agricultural subsidies to 20 billion, a significant sum for strengthening and developing our primary sector. The most important of all, however, is that for young farmers an additional 25% of the basic payment is provided for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u285	Please finish, Mr Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u286	I'll be done in less than half a minute. In conclusion, I would like to ask the Minister again for improvements both to tax and to insurance. I would also like to propose to the rural world to respond to the Prime Minister's invitation to dialogue. No one's ever been hurt since the dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Madam President. In 1951 the government of Plastira, then a progressive government, commissioned the famous Kyriakos Varvaressos to draft a report on the Greek economy and the prospects for its development. It therefore concluded that the country's development prospects were limited and there was a need to stimulate the agricultural sector and to increase agricultural income. The report also underlined the difficulty of rapid industrial development. I am afraid, therefore, that the conditions in the agricultural sector, in order not to extend to other issues in 1952 of the Varvaressos report, have many similarities to the present situation in the country. Why am I saying that? We have followed the debate which has already been held. I can say that it was a fruitful debate, containing elements, there was an exchange of views, but as a conclusion we did not reach. We have simply recorded the weaknesses of Greek agriculture, which are not due to farmers, is not due to the potential of human beings. My previous colleagues stressed the limitation of production in all kinds of agricultural products, stressed the limitation of production on livestock products and, therefore, we were left to see the common agricultural policy saving us. No, there is no such possibility, because the agricultural policies we have experienced, we have experienced the splitting up of subsidies, bad management. The one we have never noticed and did not notice the Greek state... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will ask for a similar treatment with previous speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u289	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u290	Thank you. We did not, however, live up to the effort to stimulate primary production. I have heard a number of examples. You will allow me to complete one. In particular, a basic diet of the Greek family is legumes. You want to talk a little bit about legumes, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u291	I have beans.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u292	Very good. Listen, then, what is the area performance in lentils, ferpepine. It's 150 euros, based on statistics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u293	One hundred and fifty pounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u294	One hundred and fifty pounds. That is, 150 euros collection. Can the farmer live? It takes a hundred acres, ladies and gentlemen, so that it has the minimum income and a minimum income of 15 000 euros. So if he collects 15,000 euros, how will he pay the supplies? How will he pay? The cuts don't come out. So what do we propose, and under pressure of time that I feel. We are proposing tax-free on the part of Germany at EUR 18 000 for the farmer, because the farmer should also take his cuts. The farmer, the self-employed, who does not use staff, is the largest number of Greeks. While the fiscal and insurance measures proposed by the government are ultimately taxed on the farmer's share. We therefore propose the 18,000 tax-free so that there is a minimum income left. I have already set the example of legumes, lentils, and my colleague from the rural area of Larissa agrees that nothing remains. So what are we going to do? Aren't we giving any backup? Aren't we giving help? All we are going to say is that we have to tax the farmer, increase contributions, abolish the OGA? I think that should not go through this Chamber. I conclude by saying that we are proposing that there should be a new agricultural policy, because we have an unemployment that reaches 26% and that unemployment among young people under the age of thirty-five years is 50%. Many young people left in their provinces, in their home places and today with these measures, the messages we are receiving are that they will return. They will return insulted, return unjustly. Finally, I shall close, Madam President. Farmers are not tax-free. He gave the Ministry of Social Security information that they declare an income of 5,000-8,000 euros a year. They might be saying a lot if we put down a pencil and paper. When competition is painful, when it is unrelenting at the moment in Greek agriculture - even for the Rural Bank - we have lost track and will appear after some time, possibly even with forced executions against agricultural property - I think it is not time to talk about farmers' taxation, it is not time to talk about the dismantling of the OGF. It's time to talk about supportive measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and apprentices and two educational attendants from the Velos Korinthias High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now I'm going to give the floor to the Deputy Minister, Mr. Bolaris, for exactly ten minutes. So the rest of them, the questioners who want to have calculated what they're going to say, because they're gonna be three minutes exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u296	Ladies and gentlemen, many words have been burnt in the country. One of them, which we constantly use in the sense of wish, is the word growth. If the country wants to face the difficult situation it is, it should focus - I do not use the word growth - on production, it should focus on the quality of production, it should focus on the integration of innovations into production, it should focus on extroversion, so as to support the income produced by the wage, income produced by the producer, to support the local economy, to support the national economy. I am focusing on production, because also on the question we are discussing, and on the dialogue that is taking place in this Chamber and in this country, we are talking about the common agricultural policy, which is beneficial to farmers, we focus on agricultural policy subsidies, we focus on the rural development programme, which is a huge financial instrument to support the producer and production, but we must make it clear that on many issues our political speech, rulers, parties and bodies, is behind what is being done in the field. So, speaking from here, I would like to say that all of us here should be congratulated, exemplary, use as examples and say the best performance of producer groups from Veria, from Imathia, who have been first in the world for ten years in the most qualitative and competitive product on the world market! We are obliged to congratulate the Olympus group, which exports the kiwi to India, China, Great Britain and is the first! We are obliged to congratulate the group of producers from Kalavry, who have excellent fetas and are taking promotional action on the United States market. So are other companies, and cooperatives and private companies, which are in Australia today. We must congratulate the people of wine, who are of quality in international markets, raise exports and compete with the best wines internationally. I would also like to congratulate the people who have given excellent examples to the report at the Peace and Friendship Stage for honey and its products. The same can be said of a number of other products. "Pelecanos" from Prespa, where the country imported bean from Canada and Mexico, exports to New York. ‘Pelecanos’, the cooperative from Prespa. Same from Voio, from Chotyley, from Kosani. All these people, then, who are in front of us, who, when we talk, say "Support us, help us, ensure the veterinarian, the geoponn, solve bureaucracy, let us go forward", we are obliged to serve them, because they, as a factor, create the profit. I should now like to tell you what the consequences are and why we have been stuck in this matter a little bit. They came the other day to my office. They said that cotton has been destroyed. The same thing I was told by Thrace that the wheat was destroyed. The cotton was destroyed, the wheat was destroyed, or the policy we managed the cotton and the wheat? Watch out now. In a conference on agriculture, the rapporteur says: '95% of cotton production is exported from the country'. And he said it proudly. To a reproach and shame, that's! Because what do we export? We are exporting a cotton that we produce in a bad logic which has prevailed, namely 'all the pounds', to Turkey. But Turkey is making cloth too cheap. So he's giving a very cheap commercial price. So the producer in Thessaly - which is why they say the product was destroyed - stays with subsidisation and some crustaceans from above commercial price. Yes, but our cotton, if we have a good cotton policy, if we do not let a wholeheartedly, two hundred seeds which we collect in the ginninghouses, if we have a proper policy, we must and must export cotton, standardised, because that is what gets the price. And if - I add to what the Secretary-General of the JRC said - this packed and standard cotton is what we here make cotton cloth, then we multiply the added value of the product. So this is the challenge ahead of our economy. You know what's going on? In the sense of mismanagement of subsidies, what have we done? The bad product is paid the same as good. Simple meat is paid the same as organic. Yet most meats produced by the Greek farmer are organic. She needs some management. A little attention is needed, intervention by the Ministry, support and cooperation with producer groups, to bring this meat - not only in our country but also abroad - to the price that organic products are entitled to. So we are proud that people in our country today are the first to export to the olives, such as Halkidiki and canned olives in America. We are proud, because it changes the status which existed in previous years with oil, with oil that was leaving by tanker ships in Italy and Spain, in order to get the best oil, export it, and then manage it. We're proud of it because it changes this regime. We are proud, because the country exports yoghurt, because it exports dairy products, because it exports flour. This is a job, which shows the enormous potential of this place. What do we need to do? The Ministry manages five things. He has a duty to bend on five things. This is the big policy it has to do. In addition to these five, he has fifty thousand smaller things to manage every day, with his services, with the ministers, with the secretaries and the staff. One is the people. They're the farmers. And we have to agree that in the primary sector, in the productive sector of our country, we have a population, which has, to a large extent, gone away in recent years, grew. We therefore have to agree that these people who enter the primary sector should support them. This is where it was wrong. Last year, when the new CAP agreement was made, it was decided by the parties who handled the case to take the CFP with historical rights and not to support the new world. That's what he needs reordering. We're going to get out of here. These new producers, who are in the field, want support for training. It's our responsibility to do it. These are policies that will unfold over the next few months. They want training and we have to do it. They also want organization, which is why the Minister referred to bills. We've got Earth issues. There's abandoned land. There's the water thing. We are at a time of climate change, and that wants serious management. We need to support both the efforts of both self-government and regional and local producers, who understand that their areas are falling from water, and we need to see and support water dams and lakes. We need separate policies for each product. We need the Ministry's body that provides - some boast because they reformed last year... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, I shall end. They reformed and changed the agencies. Do you know what the result is? Another address at the Ministry handles the olive tree, another handles the bulk of oil and another handles the processed oil and we expect to see results. We need changes in order to be able to support these efforts per product. Of course, there are the tools, the better use of the tools that the place has. I would like to point out to you - and to close with this - that over the past few years there have been programme disbursements, but that the money has not been targeted where the comparative advantages have been, the comparative potential. This is the challenge for all of us, for the Ministry, for the government, for the political world, for the producers - I do not separate farmers, farmers and producers - to make use of this money, aiming at where we need it. In conclusion, I would like to say that when the Prime Minister called and accepted the call of the farmers, he in no way bluffed nor wanted to stay in what is in the air. In the air anyway, it's a plan. This is a consultation plan. The consultation plan is not a bill, it has not been filed anywhere. It is open to discussion with the parties and there is a challenge to present proposals, with the producer bodies, with the professional operators, and of course a negotiation is taking place - you are watching it - with the lenders, with the partners. This challenge of the debate is a challenge for democracy. And to this challenge of democracy the Ministry, as the Minister said before...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u297	Come on, Mr. Bolaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u298	I'm done, Madam President. Two more minutes. In this challenge of democracy, the Ministry submits the views of the producers, both for the OGA and for the lawful tax legislation, and for the effectiveness and for what it supports production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u299	Now the questioners' seconds are beginning. Mr Mauritius has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Madam President. It's five minutes of dentistry. Correct the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u301	I'm sorry. We'll figure it out. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u302	Minister, it really needs a lot of nerve. What did you say? You said that farmers are collaborators because they voted for you - let them be careful - while they knew what you were going to do and voted for you. Do you know what farmers are saying now? My firm knowledge of having you first. You didn't tell them that, Minister. Here we gave you the press release, of course you may not want us to remind you of it, but it says the press release just before the referendum and, at the same time, you talked about equivalents. That's what you told the farmers. Now talk about all this! A word about what the Deputy Minister said. He said that export companies thrive and flood foreign markets. But why, Minister, are farmers being rejected? Mr Apostle, you have not responded to any of the fair demands of the poor medium-sized farm. You are firmly bound to the chariot of the memoranda, the quartet of the European Union, the common agricultural policy. You are absolved of the policy that is extinguishing the poor farmers. Of course, you're making various manoeuvres. You're calling them in dialogue. You want to make them accomplices to the crime, consent to their massacre. You're also doing a confiscation campaign. We told you in the first place. You're telling them that they don't have any more requests, even that they're also motivated. You'll get an abrupt answer for all of this, because we told you that this race is a fair fight and it's a struggle for their survival. Of course, we have had such movements in the past. Remember the vulcanizers that dug out the tires of the farmers. We had the farmhouses, which you too, Minister, are supporting today, and not only are you supporting them, but you are enriching the arsenal of the criminalisation of the games. And if that is not the case, we are telling you clearly: accept the JRC's amendment to the agro-industrial law. Now, farmers' requests were captured in our party's question. Some truths about the OGA. You use it all the governments and give it crumbs to the most impoverished. Today you do that yourself. In other words, do what our people say "a commemoration of foreign tide". You are managing extreme poverty. That is the system you serve. You say that and you say it again that the OGA is subsidised with three billion. Let's see, Minister, and answer, why will you take the floor later, give the farmer and the farmer a widow's pension? And if you give, you give 70 euros. Do you give sick leave to farmers working in the most difficult conditions, to heavy work, to extreme weather? You do not give farmers these issues. So everything you say is not a reality. And yet - can you still tell us, Minister, how much is farmers' voluntary pensions today? It's 140 euros. So the money you say goes to the OGA, goes for other measures, which you are taking rather than for farmers. We say clearly that our country could produce everything and feed our people, and yet, in our schools, there are children who are undernourished, fainting from hunger, families who, according to your data, do not consume meat, milk, fish. There are people looking for the trash cans for food. At the same time, the European Union has now put production restrictions on it, let products rot in the trees, in the fields, give money to bury products, provided money to destroy and rip crops, provided money to destroy fishcats, because in these farms fishermen are also involved. We do not only have the common agricultural policy, we also have the Common Fisheries Policy, which drives coastal fishermen from the seas, the small fishermen, to stay the big ones, so that the multinationals in the fisheries sector which are being subsidised can be giggled. On the one hand, you are subsidising the destruction of the fish auctions and, on the other, you are subsidising the fish farms of the banking groups. In conclusion, the Communist Party of Greece invites farmers, workers to create their own forehead, a front that will conflict with this policy to overthrow it, open up prospects for another policy. This is why the Communist Party of Greece is aimed at the farms that are fighting in the wide folk layers. We tell them to think very well about what you and the others were telling them before joining the EEC, in today's European Union, to see clearly that only the JRC's proposal responds to their increased problems, it is realistic, it is timely, as is the release of the European Union's lupus alliance and the unilateral deletion of debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Vardalis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to your position and the call to concentrate mainly on the issues of production, development, that is to say, the pie. Except you didn't answer a key question, you didn't even touch it. Who will ultimately make this development that you seek, the development of the primary sector, as you say? Will the small and medium farmers, the poor farmer? These, for example, when you say we support the countryside, do you have in mind? [[This is where the President-in-Office is occupying Mr Anastassios Kourakis, the first Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis.]] On the contrary, the word 'poor and medium-sized' was not heard in both positions of the Ministers. Once the Minister's speech heard the word 'farmer', when he said that 'I cannot understand the farmers because they were on the road'. He only said it once. What has replaced the "poor and medium-sized farmer" in the government's positions? The 'liability of the rural area', which has been repeated tens of times: 'We will defend the rural area. We're going to reform the rural area. We will support rural areas." Do you think, Minister, that with such verbal acronyms you will hide the unpopularity of your policy, which aims to unleash the small and medium-sized farm? I would remind you that you tabled a new seven-year rural development programme to the Commission in November. What do you say in this program? I read from your programme: "The small-scale farm is economically inconsistent because it forbids the economies of scale both in farming practices and in investment. The size of farms has a clear impact on economic efficiency and, in general, on performance and business, I stress it - 'agricultural opportunities'. Emphasis will also be placed on the processing sector.' I think you're clear. For the businessmen who want to invest in the rural economy, you're interested in them and a nail doesn't burn you if the small and medium farms are to be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendants from Velos Korinthias High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u306	I must admit that the Ministers of Government SYRIZA - ANEL very quickly learn from the tricks of previous ministers and follow the same arguments. Mr Bollaris came out before and said 'I feel proud, for one, for the two, for the three'. Then why is the poor medium-sized farm protesting? Why is he on the roadblock? Because you're proud and because your anti-agricultural policy results? Of course, what you have shown is the result of your anti-agricultural policy and nothing else. Because, precisely on the question of how to deal with the small lot, when there is no economy of scale, you have given it the answer through the removal of the poor middle-sized farm, the concentration of land and productive means in a few hands, in large capitalist groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u307	In the hands of the great producers, Mr. Karathanasopou!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u308	Minister, please. You'll be placed later!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u309	That's your answer! Otherwise, the other way is socialist transformation and socialist cooperative. That's him! There's no third way. Third street, Minister, is bankrupt! Or you'll be with capitalism, which inherits poor medium-sized farms to bring the land together into a few hands, or you'll socialize the land and make the productive cooperative, the socialist model. How do we do it? You have chosen camp and this camp defends it with nails and teeth. As for these achievements you have presented - I have asked you a relevant question - really, what do you have to say that in 2015 there are no currents in Erymanthos? The power transfer and installation of PPC's pillars are extremely expensive, because the farmer himself has to put it in his pocket. Do you have anything to say? Eighty years, now, we hear about standard oil, forty years we hear about Chios whip, which will solve all the problems. These arguments do not stand for serious criticism. So, mastic Chios will solve the question of the development of the Greek economy for the benefit of the people? Will Xio's mastic or kiwi will meet the needs of the Greek family? How many times have your predecessors celebrated that farmers have to sow asparagus, that they have to put on raspberry, aromatic plants, or even ashore? Who determines what is produced? Are the people's needs determined? You say 'no, it defines the capitalist profit and the capitalist market'. That is the problem of poor medium-sized farms today! And this common agricultural policy, which, with nails and teeth, defended all the other parties, as it will deal with the problem of the rural economy, is the factor that helps speed up the decommissioning process. That is why we say that we are against this policy. And it goes too far to mock the JRC's proposals and try to cultivate social automation, Mr Apostle, for the EUR 30,000 tax-free. This proposal is made by the JRC for the whole of the people and we say that logistics should be taxed. Did you say anything about this and the shipowners' scandalous privileges? But the agricultural oil tax is free of charge, and the shipowners are free of charge! Are you going to say something about this? Nothing! You are barely preparing new laws to give more incentives and benefits to capitalists in the context of the new development law. That's your policy. You are classically soldiers and class opponents in poor medium-sized farms, workers and other people's strata, who want to prevent and overthrow this policy of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr. Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Emmanuel Synthrakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, it is an impression that, starting with the Minister's position, he said: 'I can't really explain the farmers' reaction'. It's like nothing's happening! It's like nothing's happening!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u312	What's the matter I can't explain the farmers' reaction?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u313	As far as farmers' reaction is concerned, you know very well, Minister, because farmers are on the blocks because they are fighting, because they are fighting to stay on their land, to be able to produce, live their family!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u314	Because they refuse dialogue! I didn't say anything about the rest!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u315	That's why farmers are on the block and you're doing what you don't know. You're wondering, you're asking yourself about this. So here you change their lights, you triple them, you put them three times on the contributions, You're literally changing their lights and asking yourself why farmers are on their way! You are cutting them off the grazing areas, which you consider to be ineligible, and which is unaware of, and in this way you are cutting off the subsidy. You have them unpaid. You haven't paid everyone the balancing, and you don't say it. Pharmaceutical expenditure per animal shall be increased. There is a high cost of production. There's the insurance contributions I told you before. You're taxing the wine. Who do you think will be damaged? The wine maker? The producer and the consumer will bear the tax. On the prices of feedingstuffs and raw materials! Grape growers are unpaid. The other day, Mr. Bolaris asked about the unpaid grape producers who take the product for winemaking and what did Mr. Bolaris say to us? "This is the private economy, we cannot intervene." What, though, did he say as the government's representative of the start of agricultural mobilisation? He said: "For see, there are also limits to struggles, limits of legality". So you know very well why farmers went down the street because they're on the road. And you threaten them, you blackmail them that way. You're talking about producer groups. Really, producer groups since when do they exist? Why so far have small and medium-sized farmers never joined any producer groups? Why? Tell me who the poor farmer is, who is this grape grower with unpaid production, with the criteria and the conditions that he can go to the producer groups when he has to pay a specific chapter?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u316	That's other than what you're saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u317	But at the same time you are propagandaing these producer groups through the municipalities through the regions. The Region of Crete promotes producer groups, propagandas the standardization, charters a plane and goes to Ukraine, China, takes two pounds and two clothed Cretans to forge the olive, oil and grape, when at the same time, here, the producer and the production and steal his livelihood. Who is this small- and medium-sized producer that can export a product? You're talking about exports. What small and medium-sized producer can export and where? So all you say is policies that come to support the big capital, the industrialists and the cartels. That's the reality! The only real alternative, today, is the JRC's proposal for another rural and livestock development, which will really meet the people's food needs with good quality and safe health, products, which will drive production forces, will ensure the income of producers. With these criteria, livestock farming - in our opinion - is given priority, since it is aimed at self-sufficiency in livestock products. But, in order to do this, we also need radical restructuring in plant production.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u318	Please complete your thoughts, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u319	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is necessary to co-operate stockfarming in producer cooperatives and the verticalisation of agricultural production, i.e. linking livestock production to agriculture. But this requires other power, it requires popular power in the context of a people's economy, which will actually promote this productive partnership for the benefit of small and medium-sized ones. So farmers do well and they're on the roadblocks. And many of them are the ones who believed you and voted for you. And you know what they're saying? I'll tell you another mandarin.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u320	Call the mandarin and finish with the mandarin.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u321	They say it themselves, who voted for SYRIZA, but now it's with the class movement, it's on the block. And you know what they're saying? "I'm leaving, because the sun's too late. Look, look for me, but I'm elsewhere given."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki, for the mandarin. Mr Stavros Tassos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u323	I, Minister, must admit that you are consistent with what you believe in. You believe in the European Union and in the capitalist way of development and, therefore, you are entirely consistent with the policy you are promoting, a policy that wants to unravel, to break the small and medium-sized farmers to create the big private business capitalist businesses. It is a question of where production will be directed. Will it be export-oriented, will it be extroverted, with the aim, of course, always the gain, or will it be oriented towards covering the nutritional and other needs of the Greek people and the Greek society? We all know that in capitalism a successful economy is considered an export-oriented economy, making exports, not for any other reason, of course, but because profit is greater. So we really belong to different camps. You're in the capitalist way of development. We want an economy and an organisation of society, which is intended to meet people's needs, and in this case an economy where land will be popular property and production will be aimed at meeting the needs and where there will be no large state unit, small and medium-sized producers will be integrated into a productive cooperative that operates alongside the large state units, which will be aimed at producing products and meeting people's needs. So today the farm is fighting survival because, precisely in this way of production it is crushed and disappearing. We are next to this farm, small and medium-sized, and we will support it in every way, because only in this way will they be able to survive, but also to meet the needs of the Greek people in products. Therefore, if you really believe that this way you follow really serves the needs of society and, of course, the needs of farmers, I think that all we can say is that you are wrong. Of course, because you really can think that you are doing this because you think that you are actually serving the needs of society and farmers, we say that we are in the opposite, because we believe that you are consciously serving a policy that does not lead to this direction. We will continue and support the fight against farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr Stavros Tassos. Before giving the Minister the floor, the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, Mr Manolakou Diamantaux, will be assigned for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u325	I would like to refer to an attempt, which has been made, to cultivate social automation on the type of struggle decided by farmers and on the tax. Of course, farmers do not live in the field when they are mobilized. On the road they meet to show both their problem and their strength. Here is the 'from the field to the national road', unlike their products which from the field to the shelf, interfer middlemen, who absorb much of their value without offering anything. They're parasites. But no government ever took steps to protect the farm from this farm. He was always on the side of the big traders, the industrialists, the banks, i.e. the exploiters, the capitalists. He was added with his speech and the Centro spokesperson. For the form of struggle, he found out about their demands. As far as taxation is concerned, Minister, you cannot say that there is a tax on the employed person and the pensioner and not say what is taxless for the farmer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u326	It's 12,000 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u327	So I ask you this: How will he feed his family? For a family with two employees, 19,000 - that is, 9,500 euros and 9,500 euros - it is duty-free. I tell you to get these 19,000 euros and add the 12,000 euros of subsidies. They make 31,000 euros. What does the bloc coordinator want? He's asking you for 30,000 euros tax free. So we ask you: What are you thinking of answering them? In the final analysis, will the method of subsistence be abolished or will you continue to tax with non-real income? As far as tax-raisers are concerned, you have come out of some government ministers at chords, because it has hurt you as a mass protest by farmers and has the solidarity and support of the majority of the people. But let's see, every year, they're making the OSCE's application? They declare how many fields they have and what will they be cultivated with? On this basis, do they pay a scoop contribution to the ELGA? After all, if you know the value of agricultural production that escapes, why don't you take measures? Unless you want to take into account self-consumption, that is the oil or wine that the farmer sends to his child or to the loaf cultivated by the farmer to feed his animals. There is another issue that farmers are asking us about. Exports, of course, take place. Big exporters win, and that's why they're doing it. But at what prices do producers buy from and how much time do they pay them? Because you may have referred to an income increase of 12% for the years 2012-2013, but we ask you this. Is that where you include, together with the farmers' incomes and the incomes of the major exporters and processors? Of course, in an economy you look at the interests and profits of monopolies, and that's where you're planning production. And, of course, you're planning production to cover all the self-sufficiency for the needs of your people and then what you're going to export. In conclusion, we say clearly that the brooking blocks of the struggle for its survival opens roads for ruptured and overthrown the exploitation and exploitation of its exploiters and their parties. So fights never close streets! They only open!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u328	Thank you Mrs Manolakos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece. On behalf of the government, we will close our debate with his tritology, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Apostle. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u329	Ladies and gentlemen of the Communist Party of Greece, other than agricultural income, agricultural activity and processing. Don't confuse everything and put it all in the same bag.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u330	Is EUROSTAT confusing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u331	But I really want you to clarify your position. Do you want to leave the European Union, yes or no? When exactly do you want it? Now, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow? How'd you plan that? Clear your position towards both the roadblocks and the farmers you're talking to. Because your view is not compromised at the same time to speak against and then ask what will happen with these aids. And, indeed, you say: 'No. Let's get more. Give battles to increase the aid'. So that is clear. You cannot say, "We propose another way, take back the plans, take back your suggestions" and at the same time do not have a plan and proposal. There's no way these things can be done to make it clear. Because, in fact, - and I didn't expect it - there was a'monotaire' operation on your part, what did I say, ladies and gentlemen? I said that I find it incomprehensible that the Prime Minister should have asked farmers to meet and not respond. World originality! Secondly, what have I said and constantly is in front of me and you have used it? There are two gray zones: one is black work, employment - we bring this draft law to solve a problem - and the other is that the value of agricultural production is not reflected. I'm not putting that word back in my mouth. It's over. The value of production shall not be reflected. That is a reality that everyone accepts. Should we not tackle this in order to benefit farmers themselves? In one case, the farmers will also be the farmers, otherwise they are the victims of the ones, who plunge the space on one side and on the other. I have heard the representatives of the parties - they are now missing - particularly on the New Democracy side, with whom we voted together on the agreement in July, which we as a government are now called upon to implement. The Greek people have authorized us to apply this agreement. Did they not, then, know what they voted for both the insurance and the tax? I even heard about the oil. In this agreement there is the abolition of the refund of oil consumption. We voted for these then. Didn't Mr. Mitsotakis, who went beyond, knowing that the aid will be withheld from the funds due to the OGA? Didn't he know them? And today the New Democracy is trying to purify itself by invoking the blockages and mobilisations. And, of course, not only Mr Mitsotakis, but also the other reserves of the system have this view today. All those who have been hitting the roadblocks and the farmers for years now are presently representing them. Aren't they the ones who led the rural area to the depreciation and impoverishment that he, in fact, lived in previous years and now continues to live? That's why it's us to fight. We'll continue on our way. We'll save whatever it is. And to know, especially, farmers, that it will be a key tool in this productive reconstruction, which we are looking for for the country to finally get out of the crisis. We will redesign agricultural production. I would like to inform you that we have already tabled a draft land development strategy towards the institutional partners. It is true that farmers are refusing the dialogue. It's a matter. We're waiting for them. The Prime Minister is waiting for them. For the rest, we're here. You know, I'll see you around and we'll be judged sometime. But we will do what we are committed to. In conclusion, however, I should like to turn to the farmers once again. The views are not leading anywhere, 'We are not having a dialogue with the Prime Minister'. We want the paths of dialogue to be opened. The government exists. The House has institutional committees, where even intergroup dialogue can take place, as they themselves demand. The Committee on Production and Trade can meet and listen to farmers. We invite them to appoint their representatives and to come to the debate in committee, where all parties are represented and the government will be there to listen to them. Of course, whenever they consider it appropriate, the Prime Minister is waiting for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, I would just like to speak for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u333	But then the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u334	To answer. I want him to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u335	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u336	I mean a smuggling, which, Minister, we did not expect from you, because you know very well what the JRC's position for the European Union is. It's the release. But today we are not in the European Union on our own responsibility, but on your own responsibility and choice. And as long as we are in the European Union on your own responsibility and choice, we will claim the European Union's money to go to meet the needs of farmers, poor medium-sized farmers and not go for the monopolies, shipowners and capitalists. And these war targets are not for socialism. It is for the survival of farmers, who will pave the way for the socialist overthrow and the break.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u338	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u339	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u340	For seconds, Mr. President. And we, my dear colleague, will be here and fight and wait for your own opinions. Let's really go to this battle together, claiming and supporting the rural area.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u341	After you've vanquished the small- and medium-sized farms!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u342	Thank you. The debate on the number 16/11/22-1-2016 topical question by the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece and Members of his party to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the problems of the agricultural sector is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-05-S1-commons.u343	With the consent of the House at 16.26 hours the sitting on Monday, February 8, 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a topical questions debate, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
