ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First I would like to read to you a letter from the Government Secretariat: "We hereby inform you that regarding the debate on topical questions on Monday 12 September 2016, the presence, first of all, of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou, for Question No 1191/29-8-2016 will be impossible, since he will be at a meeting with the representatives of the institutions and, secondly, of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Anastasios Petropoulou on Question No 1231/6-9-2016, as he will be in scheduled meetings with institutions and relevant events in Thessaloniki within the framework of the International Exhibition. Other topical questions with numbers 1228/6-9-2016, 1201/30-8-2016 and 1189/29-8-2016 will normally be answered by Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paulos Polakis and Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Theodosissis Pelgini respectively. Please take the appropriate steps to inform the President-in-Office as well as the honourable Members.' I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a new information procedure. We are starting, ladies and gentlemen, with the second debate under number 1189/29-8-2016, a topical question from the Parliamentary Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Sioropoulou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the establishment of a public IEK for adults with a view to special education. We will change the order for Mr Paulakis to remain in the debate of the next two topical questions. The Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs will answer. Mrs Siloropoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Before I take the floor to place myself on my question, I would like to make a reference to the intense feeling that I experienced today, the first day of school year, at the opening and sanctification of the Single Professional Gymnasium - High School of Sofan Cardits. It was amazing that the mixed feeling of joy and excitement, Mr. Minister, was being presented to the faces of the teachers, parents and students of this special school and that had to do with the immediate and substantial reaction of the Ministry of Education and the Minister of Friends to the request of the parents, the institutions of the region and the educational community as a whole to transform the Special Educational School into a Special School and the establishment of the professional high school. The establishment of the new type of school enabled further training to be carried out to the students who had completed their training at Grade 1 Télécom. The relief of parents whose children have been rediscovered in the educational framework of special education and the joy of the pupils to be back in the same room was indescribable. We thank the Ministry of Education, the Minister of Friends, as well as all the political leadership of the Ministry of Education, which directly and effectively gave the best for the disabled and special educational needs. I now move on to my question, Madam President. Minister of State at Carditsa, in the city of Sofada, two schools operate for children with disabilities and special educational needs, the Special Training and Training Laboratory and the Level I Special Education Teaching Centre, which meet the needs of special education throughout the prefecture, satisfying a chronic demand from local institutions for the completion of the students' education in secondary education. We were glad to see the Ministry of Education transforming the TEI of Special Grade 1 into a special professional high school and establishing a lyric class. This establishment is essentially a special way out of the very important problem of social integration faced by pupils with special educational needs in our county and decapitate their families. At the same time, however, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that this positive action concerns only those students who have more chance of attending the educational and professional programme of special high school schools. So I ask you this question, as the graduates of ODRs with difficulties do not have the same opportunity to continue their studies, since there are no structures of specific education and vocational training that meet the needs of these students. That is why I would like you to reply to me, Minister, what are the intentions of the Ministry for Lifelong Learning and Vocational Training for adults with disabilities and special educational needs? When is the establishment and functioning of the IMIE, the Public Institutions for Vocational Training for Adults, graduates for compulsory education, with a view to specific training? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u5	I would just like to say a few words about today. All schools in the country worked. The books, the teachers, the students were in place. This has happened for thirty-five years. I say this as a starting point for a new day for education. Now, as far as your question is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, if the Lyceum class wants to develop into a public IKK special education, secondary education should make the relevant application in order to move forward in this direction. I have to tell you that four public IKKs have already been established: the first is in Agia Paraskevi, the second in Pylea Chortiatis, the third in Serres and the fourth in Volos. Already from these four public special treatment IEKs, the two, of Agia Paraskevi and of Chortiatia, operate with the following specialties: First, a chat recorder - practices, which concerns people with visual problems. Secondly, a physiotherapy assistant for people with visual problems or hearing problems. Thirdly, a guide to museums, archaeological and cultural sites, which concerns persons with visual or hearing problems. Fourth, computer technician, multimedia, web designer - developer, video games, for people with hearing problems. And, fifthly, a technician of computers and telephone centers, provision of information and customer service, exclusively for blind or visually impaired persons. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. It is clear that there have been significant changes in secondary education, changes in the structures of specific vocational training by creating a uniform - and this is very important - the type of school, the uniform vocational level - and the abolition of early vocational qualifications. Legislative intervention has already been made in relation to public IEK by which the structures to be developed will be announced in the near future. I would like to say that in the context of the development of our education in the country, special priority has been given to schools for special education and to schools for the integration of persons with special problems. Teachers were already given priority to being able to serve these schools. That is what I wanted to say, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u6	Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We welcome every action and reform of the Ministry towards supporting children with disabilities and special educational needs. Minister, the provisions of the Ministry expressly state that the timetables and detailed programmes of general education and specific professional high school programmes will be implemented in the specific vocational schools. It is understandable, however, that the existing detailed programmes of general education cannot be implemented in the respective schools of special education, and it is a matter of urgency and priority that these programmes should be adapted to the possibilities of disabled and special educational needs for pupils. This leads to the need to create, within the framework of the IEK, a specific institution, a special education office, which will be able to support all aspects of special education. In secondary education, more specifically, the structures that exist are OEEKs, TECs of Special Education I and II Tier 2 and special professional educations, without the contents of each framework being clarified. Furthermore, it has not been determined what the student profile should be for each context, so that there is a great deal of confusion about which pupils and in which context they should be registered, and the CEDEFOPs have great difficulty in proposing the relevant framework, since not all structures throughout the territory are present. This problem should also be added to the desire of their parents to be part of general education with parallel support, regardless of whether they are able to attend education in this context mainly for social reasons. As far as OSCEs are concerned, there is a central issue of the possibility for their students to continue their studies and to go to the labour market and thus join society itself. In this context, the State should, in practice, show its social person by implementing lifelong learning, education and protection schemes for disabled people and specific educational needs. In this respect, the establishment of the DIEC of compulsory school graduates for special education is of the opinion that this is very important. However, adult education with disabilities should not be dismantled from the other structures of special education, which should be in full cooperation with each other. It is also important that the Ministry of Education, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, is here and the Minister of Health, and we would also like his own contribution - and we would like to see special education structures supporting protected work, but also the protection of people with disabilities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is important, Minister, that there should be an answer to the chronic and imperative question of parents 'if parents leave, what will these children become?' Minister, it is our duty to ensure the fundamental right of every child, every Greek citizen, to learning, if we really want to have a rule of law, a socially sensitive state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u8	A few words, Your Honor. I don't know if an application has been made for the conversion of the public IEK from a lyric class that is now. This should be done by the appropriate secondary education. But I have to tell you a few words. The aim of the Ministry of Education is not to create special schools which lead to exclusions, but children with disabilities to join the normal school classes, unless, of course, they are children with severe disabilities. This is the objective, and in this context, please address the secondary education of your region to make the request. Be sure that the special secretariat of lifelong learning will deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, too. Next is the first with number 1228/6-9-2016.Emergency question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Health, on the coverage of the vacancy of a rural doctor at the Kyparissio Regional hospital of the Municipality of Monemvassia. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Paul Paulakis. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. The object of this timely question is, as you said before, to fill the regional doctor in the local community of Kyparissios the Municipality of Monemvassia of Laconia with a rural doctor. It is imperative, Minister, to have that perspective, to meet this request of the region, since Kyparisssi, which I do not know if you have visited...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u11	And land and sea!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u12	...provides with a lot of the barren, and, I'd say, remote parts of your area. I would like to inform you that during the summer Kyparissi brings together about three thousand visitors - attendants and during the several months of winter it has around four hundred and five hundred people along with the nearby village, Harakas, who also falls under the responsibility of Kyparissios, as regards the rural hospital. There is a great need for the position of an agricultural doctor to be filled, because the conditions are excellent for the one who will ask and be able to come. For example, the local community itself has given on this basis a new construction for the rural doctor, as well as a feeding. The various notices that have been made, unfortunately, have been declared barren, with the result that anyone living in Kyparissi or visiting Kyparissi and having a health problem, Madam President, has to go - come about a hundred kilometres from Molaon Hospital's Health Center or from Sparta Hospital so many kilometres more. You understand that only luck has there been no problem. Of course, incidents have happened. I'm a little analyzed by the incidents that I'd like to think you might know. And you'll probably know them because of your scientific quality. So if an incident occurs - now in the summer there has been an incident of drowning - there is no doctor, there is nothing. And you must also realize, because of the social sensitivity that the Left says, that it distinguishes it and not like us, who are socially analgesic, on the right, what insecurity in this case feels a person who may need a doctor, medical care. I want to believe that you will not be content with the well-known service notes that provide the ministers with to come to us, but you will give, on the basis of the profile - I do not know you well - a more immediate and more critical answer or solution to the issue that we are analysing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u13	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Davakis, thank you for the question. I have visited the area to which you refer both from land and from the sea. It is one of the most beautiful areas of our country and Kyparissi and Gerakas and Leonidio and the bay of Fokianos and all this area and the plateau on the Peletas and everything and it really is a place as you say it. Look, because it distinguishes us from social sensitivity, that is why we have seen again the list of barren agricultural medicine throughout the territory. On the basis of the proposals from the health regions and the needs that have existed, we have reached a list of three hundred agricultural doctorates throughout Greece, which include island regions, but also mountain areas, in which we have restored - doubled it - the ancestors' allowance - EUR 400 that is - which is a strong aid to people who end and to whom the previous governments, with the cuts that have been made, have reduced their wages. When I was an agricultural doctor, in 1994-1995, I received more money than the current rural doctor. And I'm talking about wages. In other words, where rural doctors took 1,100 to 1,200 euros, with the cuts that took place in the previous period, they reached 850 euros and 900 euros. So to go to such a remote place - that there is no such possibility, of course, from many points of view of local government, and have given such incentives, etc. - It wasn't the best. And that was why too many barren agricultural doctors were not covered for too long. In the last statement - and I will say about Kyparissi, simply because you have made the reference to it, and in a more general way - fifty-five barren agricultural doctors have been covered. And we're talking about islands like Tilos, such as Halkidiki, like Gadus, like Psarras, like some doctors in Karpathos, such as other doctors in the Aegean, Antikythera, or other mountain villages up, which had to see a doctor from six months to two or a half years. And they got covered because there was this motive. Unfortunately, Kyparissi - like some others, about ten of what I have seen, because we did so on the basis of the proposals that came from the health regions - was not included in this list. There have been two notices lately - after January that the post has been cleared - and there has been no interest. Well, the steps are two: Firstly, the process has been voted on immediately. After two atrocious announcements, we can first appeal to the Army in order to place a private doctor, who will make his country's farm and will be rewarded. Not for free. He'll be rewarded. This will be the immediate step for Kyparisssi. Secondly, Kyparissi, together with some others, who see that they did indeed have our attention because we have basically sat down and seen a list of a thousand eight hundred rural doctors throughout Greece, I believe that it will be included in a good repetition - to say so - which will be done for completion. Because there are indeed some other areas that have sent us where they have not joined this law, with the motive I mean. For, beware, in the law on arid regions with non-wage incentives is Kyparissi because it belongs to the Molas. In the parallel programme we had legislated on a number of non-wage incentives, i.e. multiplying pre-services in these parts, the possibility of putting the main and preliminary expertise from the beginning, etc., which also act as incentives for people to work there. I believe, however, that the key point will be what I told you before. So the two steps are those. We do the same with the Ottomans, which was a doctor who was uncovered, even though it was barren. It was in the barren, that is, the motives. We will look to be covered by a personal doctor who will serve his rural beings rewarded. In short, then, there will be a change in this list for some such cases. And indeed, Kyparissi belongs to one of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u16	Minister, look, in your reply you have given a good prospect of resolving this issue. I want to believe that this will be implemented, because the intentions of the ministers are good - I say this because of experience - but many times this 'I believe it will be included in a proper repetition', I do not want it. I would like you to say, 'I will order now that I go to my office to the next list to be included'. Because or with the doubling of the herd you said - it is a good motive, and I think it will be - or with the issues of the Armed Forces - we have a place there, but, in any case, if there is even occasional possibility of being a soldier for a short time until the notice - I would say that there must definitely be the cover of this agricultural doctor. I would like to submit to the Chamber that there are programme contracts - you will obviously know that - such as the Northern Aegean Region with the Ministry of Health, which provide extra money - wage incentives in the case of purely agricultural doctors. Look at that, too. Take a hit in the Peloponnese Region, because we have other cases of this kind, as you know. More molecules can also be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u17	Moria there are, Mr. Davaki. Don't get tired. There's molecules now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u18	Good. Then I would ask you very strongly - and I will come back to my question - to order it to be included - and I wonder why it has not been done - Kyparissi in this table and to double the barren so that the Kyparissi Regional Medical School can immediately find the doctor it needs. It is unacceptable to ask questions in the Greek Parliament on matters which, as I believe, all of us believe - should have been resolved in another way. Give the services a mandate, because sometimes they also need the above instructions for these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Mr. Polakis, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u20	Just a few words. Mr. Davaki, I agree. We're what we do. We're not what we say. And we have shown this time that a lot of things aren't in general, but we're doing it already. Many were told that it is not possible to reinstate the benefit of the barren. He was reinstated into the law for the parallel program and that arrangement came out. Everything that's untrue will be corrected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u21	Time can you tell me? Where do you figure it out?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u22	Listen to me, we have asked the health regions to tell us again if we missed something, because we are also being sent by some mayors because they were not included in it, etc. Some people are right, some are wrong. There must be a concrete assessment that is really necessary and where it is not. I told you before that I knew the area very well. On the other point you have said, with the real estate of the regions, this is something that we have anticipated. We again legislated to overcome the sniper of some of the Commissioners, who because there was no “and” in the arrangement, turned the warrants back, as they did in the northern Aegean, in the southern Aegean, now in the Cyclades and the Ionians, we continue to have a problem. The Commissioner does not explain it, so he sees it, even though it is crystal clear now. From that point on, it has to do with this region, because it is not compulsory. In other words, the region, in so far as it has resources and has them, is of course exploiting them and we have anticipated legislation. As far as the subject is concerned, there was a problem over the previous period, because it had been legislated before that with the possibility. The point is, with the needs of refugee, etc., there was not so much availability from armed doctors. Now it's starting to exist. It's a balance, and it's starting and there. So I think the subject with the Private Doctor can be solved, it can be solved immediately. With regard to the subject of recasting the list, I cannot tell you whether it will be in ten days, in fifteen or in one month. They will be in a very visible period of time, within this year, because we want to go the next way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Then, according to the government Secretariat's newsletter, I will mention what questions will not be debated as a result of an impediment. The first, with number 1231/6-9-2016, topical question of the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the drastic reduction of disabled pensions and allowances of AMEA, will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister for Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Anastasios Petropoulos. The fourth under number 1191/29-8-2016 is a topical question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the PASOK Democratic Association. - DIMAR. Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the protection of the citizens from excessive bank charges, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. Also, due to lack of competence, the second question of the first cycle of the Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaou Michou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs will not be discussed, on the "displacement of 36,769 Greek children from the nurseries". The Ministry responsible is the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. Also, due to lack of competence, the third question will not be discussed under number 1232/6-9-2016, first question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Ministers for Rural Development and Food and Economics, Development and Tourism, on the reopening of the GP and standardisation of the Union of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Argolidas "Esprides". The Ministry responsible is the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. The third with number 1201/30-8-2016 will now be discussed and a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Health, on the problems in the functioning of the General Hospital of Lamia. Mr. Stavura, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u24	Minister, on behalf of the Ministry of Health's political leadership you welcomed the debate on this question. And I say "welcome", because you know very well that there were fifteen continuous postponements on the part of the Ministry of Health, always invoking the Ministry of Labour. Let it be like this, it's too late than ever. It's practically the subject. It is true, Minister, that the General Hospital of Lamia presents years, smaller or larger problems and structural and operational. It is also true, however, that some systematic efforts have been made in recent years to deal with them. For example, it has been supported - as far as possible - the staffing of the General Hospital of Lamia with medical staff, with the notice of a few - is a fact - medical posts and the recruitment of certain subsidiary doctors. It has been modernised and supplemented medical and technological equipment based on the priorities set by clinical directors themselves. A new hospital agency was established, which provides for its development with a significant increase in beds and a strengthening of human resources. This was until the end of 2014. Unfortunately, however, since the beginning of 2015, the General Hospital of Lamia has been left to its fate and operates thanks to the abilities and ambition of its staff. And that's why, as you know, for seventeen months, he remained headless, without command - from January 2015, until June 2016 - with significant deficiencies in health and medicine, with the support of medical and technological equipment, launched in 2013 and 2014, to cancer with parts and clinics of the hospital to pose serious problems. So, Minister, I ask you what immediate actions the Ministry of Health intends to take to address these major problems presented today by the General Hospital of Lamia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u26	Mr Stavoura, I have found you in the debate on this question. It was possible before the House closed for the summer, on the day I answered about thirteen, fourteen questions and yours was scheduled, but you had a coma. Make sure there's nothing going on consciously. We do work and we run a lot. And you'll see it with this one. Look, I'll answer specifically and with numbers. In 2015, you had budgeted as a government, that the Lamia Hospital would be subsidised by the state budget with EUR 9.958.724. On December 31, 2015, the Lamia Hospital had taken - real money, not credit -11,268.724, which is an increase very large, just to meet some needs it had. And also, in 2016, we predicted, in relation to what you predicted, about EUR 450,000 above, which is EUR 10,387,520. In addition, following on from the discussion we had outside, the Lamia Hospital from the first and second instalments of time-limits - the hospitals were subsidised in the previous two months for due-to-debt debts - received, signed, considered and paid EUR 4.304,937 with an update of September 12, 2016. In other words, the first thing it needs in this life, the money, has gone. Secondly, as far as staff are concerned, the Lamia Hospital has been appointed since October 2015 five auxiliary doctors, radiodiagnostics, cardiologist, nephrologist and two anaesthetics. They have been called twice as pediatricians - a problem that still exists today - but there has been no interest. They were also called for a service contract, with a block, but still there was no interest. It is currently covered by the movement of children and managers working in health centres and hospitals in the health region. Yes, we have changed the organization - which increased the beds at the time - and with it we are operating and have planned or implemented the following: First, since the 4K/5K notice completed and they've taken FEC and they're waiting for service, five people. Two Nurse Assistants, a Midwives T.A., a Nurse Nurse of Nursing, a T.A. Radiologist - Acinologist. They've taken FEK and it's to be appointed. Secondly, since the proclamation of the thousands of five hundred and thirty-eight, which is at the AACC, after the completion of all the procedures, four people will go from the rolling table of the previous notice, because it is in a total of seven hundred and fifty people from the thousands of five hundred and thirty-eight. They're the same positions as the previous notice, so they can go from the rolling board. Of these are three Narcotics, a TE Radiologist - Acinologist. Apart from these, there are nine other provisions for the Lamia Hospital, which will be proclaimed and is a TE Medical Laboratory, four assistant nurses, three OSDs for Medical Devices, one OSH for Healthcare Officers, and one traumatizer. Of the other ancillary staff - the notice of the five hundred and eighty-five - based on the proposals of the healthcare region there is - and who has been selected, the APA has also been audited - a Pharmaceutical Assistant, who have also begun to be appointed throughout Greece. The administrative staff of the 1998 AACC have been published who are in the FEK - they are also beginning to be appointed. It's an Administrative, two Health Units Command, a Accountant's. A pediatrician had been foreseen through the CEDEFOP notice, where there was still no interest. From 6 June - and beyond - the following permanent posts of doctors have been approved and declared, according to the notice of seven hundred sixty positions. There are six blanks. There are four pediatricians, two doctors for TLPs, one nephrologist and two pathologists, and there are several candidates - from what I'm learning - and on this basis will become the crisis council to be recruited. Last - it is not immediate, but indirect support due to the refugee issue and the structures of the refugee reception facilities that exist - from the notice of the eight hundred people that have been made through the European Union programme, there are fourteen people who support both the hospitality structures and hospitals directed by refugees, the guests in each region. I think that all of this, in other words, the thirty-two - and we are talking about permanent staff for the majority of them before one of the other subsidiary's 585 - is a very serious support for the Lamia hospital. With regard to the part of the money that you supported, EUR 299 000 on 20-12-2013 and EUR 315,000 on 23-9-2014, when you were also in the government to cover medical and technological equipment, firstly, I think that you had been answered and in writing that from the first part everything on the basis of the hospital's proposals had been purchased at that time and from which, of course, too much was completed in 2015. It is 289.240, paid 267,000 and invoiced and the rest, and it is an equipment, which involved both the ICU and the pediatric clinic and all clinics, etc. I can file the directory and see it in detail. For the other part of EUR 315,000, there you gave them, but there was no approval from the Lamia hospital at the time of the amendment of the 1913 procurement programme in force for '14 so that they could be absorbed. These approvals were given later. You changed with the body, which was then published for the Ministry of Health in '14 which service is responsible for obtaining approval of feasibility, because that money was then given with the aim, first, to go for a 250,000 euro CT scanner and 60,000 for a bone density meter. This teacher, this rot - not to say otherwise - of the bureaucracy that we have inherited, yes, Mr Stakoura, we have long been doing it to undo it, because a service was saying to us "we have given us feasibility approval"...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Polakis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u28	I'm done. I've said a lot. I guess I'm just leaving it to fill it in my dentistry, because I've already talked a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u29	Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u30	Mr Minister, first of all, thank you very much for your reply. Without wanting to go back into the past, I could tell you that in 2014 the General Hospital of Lamia was sponsored with 14.4 million, so there is no comparison of quantitative data. I'm going to today. I hope that what you are saying will go ahead, because I then believe that all of us should be targeted at the Lamas General Hospital in this particular case to be a modern, operational, qualitative and effective regional hospital in the country, which, along with the other health structures in the wider region, continuously upgrades the health services it offers the citizens. That is why we must all contribute, and that is why I keep coming back to these questions. First of all, I am pleased that you accept the correctness of the agency, which took place in 2014 for the General Hospital of Lamia. I am aware of the efforts you are making in particular - and you have mentioned it - in the pediatrics. Besides, I do have the notices here, for example, for the four pediatricians. Invoke the 2014 organization, which provided for six places for the pediatrics and I am glad that there is this follow-up and in general you want to serve the General Hospital of Lamia even better. The question is: How is it going? It is not just the staff, it is the beds, it is also the nursing staff, but after a year and a half that exists for this new organisation, what is the picture that you have in total and what are the immediate priorities that you have for the implementation of this former organisation? I would remind you, as you said before, that there is, for example, an increase in the number of beds from three hundred to four hundred. This design, how's it going? Finally, as far as the question is concerned, which will obviously answer me more fully in your dentistry, is the grants given to the General Hospital of Lamia. First of all, we agree that these were outside the hospital's budget and were given to meet specific needs as they emerged from the demands of the clinical directors themselves. A total of EUR 605,000 was provided outside the hospital's budget. On the basis of your written answer, which you referred to in my question on February 25, 2016, it appeared that only EUR 218,000 had been granted at the time. So the questions are: What has happened since then? Is the supply of other machinery completed? What is the relative picture today? Is there a development in competitive procedures? Is the whole amount available? What about the CT scanner? You'll definitely answer your dentistry. More importantly: I would like the assurance that there will not be a single euro lost from these resources, which have been secured exclusively for the Lamas General Hospital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u31	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Stavura, I'm starting with the last one. It won't even lose a cent of the euro. That's data. And as a former Minister of Finance, you know that when a body grants this credit is transferred to the next annual periods too. Of course, Mr Stavoura, and we are glad that the beds of the Lamia Hospital have increased, which is on a large road, which is taking too many wheels and all this and which was that part of its support with some wing, etc. The Lamia Hospital was a special example, because in too many other hospitals at the same time we punctured some thousands of beds. You didn't notice what I said before. The first part of the first funding right now - because it was February and now it is August - has been completed. The EUR 267,000 has been paid and the remaining EUR 30,000 are invoiced and paid on the basis of cards. Here is the analytical list - if you want to see it, I do not now read it here - about what equipment was bought with this money. With regard to the other to continue the precedent, the second part was that of the bureaucracy you inherited us. In other words, it is 315,000 euros that is 250,000 euros for the CT and 65 000 euros for the machinery of bone density. Both machines are necessary for the hospital. Firstly, it is not amended - and you were government at that time - the 2013 health procurement programme implemented in 2014 to include the call for these two. They created a health commission - Mr. Avramopoulos - in 2008 was supposed to gather supplies, make, show, facilitate. As this thing is developing - so it will now change with the new bill, which we are bringing for supplies - this is a mechanism for delaying some things and constantly creating obstacles to some things. Why? Because it wasn't sent at all. With fifteen or eighteen people who had reached the best of times, you can't make supplies for the whole country. We amended the 2014 procurement program, which was implemented in 2015 and 2016 by decision of the Lamia Hospital. Prolongation was granted for the use of this programme. And where did we get stuck? We dismantled it, of course, but until we understood it, we did have one service to tell us that it has been of feasibility and that we had the other service to tell us that this feasibility approval is not applicable because - it says - the feasibility approval issued since you were a government issued by the Health Ministry's development department - it was not right because the Health Ministry's body, which you amended, gave this competence to another service, to the biomedical technology department of technical services. You modified that in the summer, the feasibility approval came out after, but it came out of the other agency that had it before. The Lamia Hospital thought it had been approved appropriately, so the problem is the modification of the procurement program. We've modified the procurement program. And when we came to publish, we said: 'Where is the feasibility'? ‘But the feasibility does not apply’. Anyway, it's a change of purpose. The competitions will be opened. But, in fact, within this tutor, which has been made, it is an example of what it would be if the hospitals were able to make some decisions and not to turn 2,000 euros from their budget from glasses to pins to sign fifteen people into the Ministry plus the Minister. That's what's going on. In order to change two grand to the Lamia Hospital, use of one thing on another should be signed to the Department of Health so many. Meanwhile, this dispersion of responsibilities that has occurred, the constant changes, this endless legalization, which corrects the other one - and we have done so to cover some holes - ultimately creates a situation in which mother and child loses mother. Do you understand what I'm saying to you? You as a government legislate something in August. Your service doesn't know that, and in November, it publishes feasibility. You find after a long time that badly issued this feasibility and that all the other procedure had gone with this feasibility and fruit and from the beginning to make another feasibility. That's exactly what's happened. Anyway, we're done. We have also reached agreement with the technical service to obtain approval of feasibility, which is now required. The 2014 Health Supplies Programme has been extended for use even now any remaining ones. They can use them. So there can be a competition to buy the CT and machine of bone density. The same problem exists in other regions. In the past many MPs or ministers had taken money, due to their increased political weight in governments, and financed hospitals in their area to show. Similar grants were not available elsewhere. You were a minister, and you did it for him. The point is that these things are gone. With this subterranean underneath, something that can be done in three months takes three years. You can't imagine how many problems we've solved in the past time. I'm going to tell you another example. They have asked for the mobile mastography unit from Greece. My predecessor is taking out a provision that says they have the right - the same logic is precisely - to have these mobile units from the region and to enter hospitals to cover remote and mountainous areas, but technical specifications must be issued. They've never been issued. The regions bought these specially designed vehicles and did not rest. We solved that, too. Somebody had to take hands - hand the service, take off the specifications, move on to empty this thing. We left it and there was. I can talk until night about that. Anyway, don't worry! There is no going to be a single euro that you sent back to the Lamia Hospital at the time. And one more word: 9 million was your proposal. The about 9 million you had given in '14 for '15', 9.958 000, was your budget proposal. I don't know. Were you still in government, or were you gone? Were you? When the budget came out, you couldn't keep your defense good?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u33	I never left!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u34	Because it's actually a 4.5 million cut. There are other examples, not from you, from other ministers and other factions, who in adjacent prefecture hospitals, where one is bigger, the other is smaller, prefecture both, but because it was a MP from there, the smallest takes 3.5m euros more than the larger one. I'm talking about northern Greece. That's the way it was. We are now trying to balance that, too. We'll balance it up. It's a thousand things, but 9,958,000 was a proposal when you were government, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Polakis, you're a torrent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u36	...so you missed this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-12-S1-commons.u38	With the consent of the House at 19.02 p.m. the sitting is closed for Wednesday 14 September 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
