ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 15-12-2016, the minutes of its NH's meeting of Thursday 15 December 2016 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the resolution in the whole of the draft law: ‘National Coordination Mechanism, Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Inclusion Policies and Social Cohesion, Regulations on Social Solidarity and Application Provisions of Law No.4387/2016 (A'85) and other provisions’.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the eighth under the number 235/21-11-2016 topical question of the second-round question of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the abandonment of the radiant monument of Amphipolis. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I must tell you that I am very pleased with your position at the Ministry of Culture, because I really hope that, with your authority and your scope, you will put an end to this ideological idea - to allow me - and my narrow party governance of the most brilliant sector in our country, culture, of your predecessors. It was a policy, Minister, of Mr Xydakis and Mr Baltas, which apparently considered as a culture only what is discovered in the rule of SYRIZA. It is criminal - as you can see - for a country that has monuments, with cultural heritage, to leave them to unclaimed. A characteristic example, Minister, Amphipolis. It is no longer a common confession that Amphipolis was abandoned because it was not important. He was abandoned and renounced politically, Minister, because he had the misfortune to find himself in prior governance. And I really wonder, Minister, if the monuments are colored. How else, though, can the most trustworthy interpret this devaluation that has suffered over the last two years? The first devaluation relates to the timing of the monument, that the monument is not Macedonian - as it is, of course, demonstrated by the stylistic and architectural data and the analysis of the Aristotle group - but that it belongs to the Roman era. I would like to take this opportunity to ask whether you share, Minister, what your Secretary-General has said, namely that it is not a Macedonian monument. The second and most important depreciation is the complete drainage of the minimum funding, the minimum for the continuation not only of the excavation activity but also of the minimum protection and armour work. Because, Minister, the previous political leaders not only did they not give the money, they did not just run to obtain sponsorships but, even at the service level, what could be done at no cost, such as the maintenance of the sciences, frozen them. And it is truly regrettable that where two years ago the world was rushing by thousands to see even this great discovery brought to light by archaeological digging, today, Minister, the wilderness and abandonment dominated. Even life-threatening measures were not taken in order to prevent the pavilion and tomb from the soils, from weather and from time to time. Only 30% of them were made last year. And what is going on there to save the monument, to protect itself and not to do something further, is currently being done with the responsibility and initiative of the municipality. Madam Minister, the condemnation of Amphipolis - you will allow me to call it that - is a cultural anchor. I'm sure and I hope that you'll make it right up to me. So I want to hear from your lips, in the most official way, what is the design and timetable for this radiant monument and within 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u4	Mrs Arabatzis, I would like to begin by thanking you for your good words, and I would like to assure you that in the consciousness of all of us Amphipolis is a very important and irradiated monument. It is a unique find and a reference point for ancient architecture. We all look forward with great interest to the development of the pioneering and the emergence of this monument. You know, however, that the excavation at its initial stage took place at a very fast pace. For communication reasons, an emphasis was placed on speed and there were too many voices who were struggling for the upholding of scientific ethics. As it has actually been proved, the monument is presently presenting very important problems. There were the winter rains of 2014, which created extensive landslides and directly endangered the monument. You give me the opportunity to highlight the work that has been done before I take over, because the right and the truth must be said. Since the new government since 2015 the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture has called for the Antiquities of Serres and the Administrations of the Ministry to prioritise the protection of the monument. Immediately, 250,000 euros were secured by the Ministry's budget in the difficult period of 2015, amidst capital control, to prepare the studies needed to carry out the work that would directly protect the monument. It is the work you are talking about. Specific studies were commissioned, while maintenance studies were carried out - and we stress it - by the Antiquities of Serres and the Department's Directorates, which are responsible. First of all, a study was carried out on the stability of the hill soils and their protection from rainwater. Other studies were also carried out to support the inner tomb and conservation studies of the parts of the monument: mortars, coatings, mosaic floors, architectural parts. In 2015 the services of the Ministry completed the protection of hill soil from rainwater. The projects were made very quickly and with the help of the company "TERNA", while the Municipality of Amphipolis also co-operated mainly for electricity and individual excavation work. With the works of the Ministry, the hill soils were formed, so as not to collapse, it became a drainage system, the precinct was protected and all the maintenance work had to be carried out in general. So it is a mistake to say that they were made by the municipality or that there was negligence and that the work was stopped. The opposite was done, based on what I said before. So today, where are we? We now have the studies approved by the CSCE, which are necessary to incorporate the monument into financial programmes. Since 2016 we have planned two projects: The new NRP 2014-2020, where there is a proposal with a budget of one million for Amphipolis, we are waiting for it all this time, to give us the necessary invitation from the Region of Central Macedonia. The work will become the final formation of the tumulus, the restoration of the burial monument and the enclosure and in general its maintenance and promotion. Secondly, a project of importance is also planned with the cross-border programme of Greece - Bulgaria 'Interreg'. It is also a European programme between different states, with a budget totalling about one million. Because in the programme - I would like to stress this - only one cultural project could be included and despite the fact that the proposals from the Ministry of Culture in Macedonia were much more, we chose Amphipolis as a priority. This project provides for the building of the burial monument, the construction of tours to be visited and the visit to the entire ancient city of Amphipolis, the renovation of the old school, in order to create an information centre and a place of events and lectures. This work is in the final phase of approval.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u5	Madam Secretary, should we leave a few things to dentistry too? You and my colleague have second thoughts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u6	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u7	You have the floor, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u8	Minister, I will start from what you said that for communication reasons the emphasis has been placed on publicity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u9	Excavations speed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u10	Let me say I didn't expect to hear that from you. Because you realise that, for such an irradiated monument, with the findings found in the archaeological digging, no one could inhibit the interest of world opinion, Minister. It wasn't caused by anyone on this point. I wish we could therefore provoke international publicity, for which I should like to say that with the money that has been made - and they have rightly been made available by the previous political leadership - neither the minimum of world advertising that has been guaranteed for our country and Macedonia, we would not be able to buy. In 2014, Minister, as you will well know, the word "Amphipolis" was the first in Google's search engine. I imagine you too will admit that no political leadership could provoke it. And if he even caused it, what would that do in the country and in the excavation? So because I have heard you say about funding, which has been made and because, Minister, I live in the Serres and Amphipolis, and of interest in Parliament and of interest as a citizen of this county and of that country, I would like you to tell me in the Minutes, as I am sure you will, these fundings to which you refer. For example, I know that for studies, which were owed to Mr English, EUR 15 000 from funds secured by the EDP, from previous governance, which, of course, were not absorbed and re-issued. I also know that the municipality has taken on even the illumination from a private company to which you have referred. He finally took over the city to do the lighting. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like to say with the President' s tolerance for one minute that the funding you referred to, both in INTERREG and in the ESDP, I have the following comments to make: firstly, these funding does not concern what is required of your Ministry to make available and assist. To be practical, INTERREG, Minister, has not been approved, so the money does not exist. We hope that they will actually be approved. However, from this one million, which you mentioned, only EUR 87,600 are involved in a study on the Kastas hill and all the rest are paths and marches. Of course, this dossier, Minister, was formed and submitted under the responsibility of local government rather than the Ministry. As far as the NRP is concerned, why does the Ministry not proceed, as is required, in the deposit of the technical notes for the determination of the physical object in order to "run" the projects? Rumor is said - and I really want it not to be true - that the Secretary-General of the Ministry is being prevented, because he wants to get more money for Vergina. He is right to distract them for Vergina, but not to blame Amphipolis against any other archaeological discovery and activity. We need to remind ourselves of the story, Minister, that in 2012-2014 570,000 euros were granted from the Ministry's grants and from grants for the excavation activity in Amphipolis, money that, Madam Minister, they caught a place without any else. They donated this world publicity to our country, brought to light this precinct, which started out of the few meters and arrived at the complete revelation of the enclosure and all of this burial monument. What should the next political leadership do? To catch this huge opportunity and to do all the necessary work, studies, as necessary, Minister, in order for this monument - by combining all the other cultural treasures it possesses - to become, Minister, a visit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A thousand five hundred people visited the remote, forgotten Prefecture of Serres, Minister, the Museum of Amphipolis - which is excellent and I am sure you will come to visit it - on the weekend of something that was imperfect and is now dominated by abandonment and complaint. But that's the only way to get growth. I have listened to you when you took over from the Ministry of Culture - which I really hope you will - in your speech on the budget to say that it is time for culture to be linked to education, tourism and productivity. I was sincerely pleased, Minister, but in order to do all the things you are announcing and which I am sure you want to do, we must, in fact, see what our history, our culture and we must make use of them. Money, Minister, could now also be invaded by the proper exploitation of this irradiated monument.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u11	Mrs. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u12	I shall conclude, Mr President. So I want, Minister, from this step forward, to invite you to visit Amphipolis. I'm sure you, who with such artistic adequacy have served the art and all our tragedies, will be shocked by the image you will see there. And not only by the image of the beauty and ancient beauty and this cultural heritage, but also by the image of abandonment. So I invite you to tell me why there was a commitment from the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u13	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u14	I'm closing, Mr. President. There was a commitment by the Prime Minister, as the Director of Central Macedonia carried out, that Amphipolis will be given what she deserves. So I want you to tell me the timetable, so that this monument can finally be visited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u15	I would ask you to take care of the time, because we have more questions and, above all, because it follows legislative work today in this House. I would ask that we be consistent in time. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u16	I would like to stress that there is a difference between publicity, which is good, to know this important discovery and haste, in which archaeologists are pushing to deal with such a great finding. There's a big difference. These findings are an age-old legacy and will remain after their uncovery of ages and haste at the given moment, in which they are called upon to take care of and respect scientific ethics, so that they can be properly restored for the next generations, is decisive and unforgettable and we must not forget it. We have many examples of excavations, which have taken place in times past, haste, and how difficult it is today for archaeologists to restore them scientifically correct. So there is another thing about publicity and another thing about the proper restoration of the monument. The archaeological community, which I would like to say and stress, is doing a great deal of work throughout Greece and we are grateful to the archaeologists, accepted a very great deal of pressure to speed up the pace of risking the monument. Now, in terms of traffic, of course, we want traffic. Is anyone crazy not to want to visit? However, when the monument is not ready to accept visitors, it is very dangerous to destroy very important pieces and samples, which are necessary for the study and the restoration of the monument. We must therefore be very careful and must not be in a hurry. Citizens must be given a visit, but when their work is completed. Besides, you can see that we've given priority to the corridors, the possibility of visitors to find themselves in the monument. I would also like to emphasise something mentioned in your question about expropriations. As you can see, in order for the excavation to continue in the monument, expropriations are necessary, otherwise archaeologists cannot enter private property. It is a necessary, initial obligation of the Ministry, which has met and already expropriated the necessary areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. Follow the sixth question under number 259/29-11-2016 of the Second Cycle of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Haris Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the position of Director-General at the Greek Festival. The Minister will answer Mrs. Lydia Connordou. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for two minutes in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. I should like to officially wish your work well, although with the budget we have heard in recent days, I feel that the issue of culture is already sedated. Minister, this has, of course, lost its timeliness, because developments have been within November. We are therefore talking about this series, which we have all followed, mainly through the press - it also has a few elements of pragmatism - on the case of the Athens Festival. On 29 November, then, the next day, after a timely question had been tabled, there are reports showing the artistic director of the Festival, who should remember a little bit that he actually came to 'and five' after Mr Luku was removed and the Fabre fiasco saved the Festival last summer, who basically in an account - a river denounces the president and vice-president of the Festival's Board of Directors, saying that he is undermining his work and that there is a organized effort - to say it popularly - to go through the triplets and not manage to finally perform his duties or to the minimum. The Greek Festival, according to what the artistic director says, is charged with a fine of almost one million by the recruitment of non-ICP workers, thus losing the contract of employment that has twenty employees. The artistic director then claims that there is also an organisational chart, which has been submitted since July, which could lead to permanent recruitment of ASPs, as well as a report. However, this is all going through without any desire at all to develop. Then, in his account, neither does Mr. Theodoropoulos reveal that there is a maliciousness at the Athens Festival, which is very similar to the Greek public administration. We have opacity in the management of finances, an au thority, omissions, the feeling that the public is our loophole. These are mentioned by people who have entered the Board of Directors by your predecessor, as are Mr Theodoropoulos himself. So there is an image which does not give us the prospect that this thing can continue and that there can be good cooperation. In this environment, on 18 November there is a notice to fill the position of the Director-General, which is a fully institutionalised position guaranteed by the festival's founding law. It's a position of responsibility, in contrast to the one of the artistic directors. And there is a specific description of the qualifications that one needs to have. The notice shall be posted to the ‘TRAINING’, as it should have been. And on the same day there are other publications that say there is an attempt, by letter you sent, to freeze this whole process, which, based on the founding law, is the exclusive responsibility of the Festival's Board of Directors. I do not need to tell you that the publications also refer to names, that this is because Mr Duros is photographed, who has been evacuated by Mr Baltas, and that is a way of returning to the artistic activities of the country. Let's get to the point. The Director-General has a very important mission, a very important task: to prepare the dossier to be submitted by 31 January 2017 in the 2014-2020 Regional Operational Programme. If there is no timely preparation, there is a risk that 900,000 euros will be lost, money that civilization has a great deal - a great need.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u19	Mrs. Kefalidou, you have your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u20	I'm done. Take some time from my dentistry, Mr President. There's no need. We therefore come to replace all the Board of Directors, which is dismantled by you, without, of course, knowing what they are. There is no sufficient reason for that. And it follows from the definition of the new chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr Milios, and the members, which I must say are remarkable figures, people of culture. So it is obvious, Minister, that there is an explosive environment at the Festival. And, unfortunately, it seems that the Ministry of Culture has set up no strategic plan, but there is a chaos where culture - to use your own words too - seems to be unable to give any form. So I would like to ask you what institutional solutions are there for the serious problems that exist at the Greek Festival and have seen the light of publicity you will, in addition to the change of people and what actions you intend to take to restructure the area and, above all, to prepare for the Festival in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs Kefalidou, for your wishes and thank you for, even though late, giving us the opportunity to clarify a few things about the Festival. As you yourself admitted, Mr. Theodoropoulos, literally at the last minute, saved this institution. He presented a serious work, so right now we are able to talk about the follow-up to the Festival. The Festival has had difficult times. But we don't have to go back to them. At the moment the Festival has entered a new orbit, with a new Board of Directors, which can really work together and produce work. I want to stress something. Because you've been referring to a blowout, it's not a blowout. We are trying to find the best solution, by depleting the dialogue, by easing the attempt to bridge the conflict. We saw that, unfortunately, this cannot be done with great respect for the personalities of the former Board of Directors. After all, with many of them we are in contact and do not separate anything from us - we had to move on to a new board to save the institution and produce work. As far as workers are concerned - which is a very sensitive issue - we wanted to re-enter immediately. In this environment and the collision atmosphere we wanted to decide overall for the workers, once the landscape is cleared up. The Festival workers came to the Ministry and I promised them personally that their position is not at stake. And immediately, once the new Board of Directors has been completed, it has become legal - I stress it, the legal renewal of contracts which have been open for years and have been re-entered by law. As far as the establishment plan is concerned, I am very pleased that you are saying this because, unfortunately, all these years not only the Athens Festival but also very important supervised bodies - and I stress, not with responsibility for the last year - were left to operate without an organisational plan. It was a moving sand, where there was no clear definition of responsibilities, so all these 'tragly' things happen, as you have called them, in the past. Already since Mr Balta's previous term of office - and I stress this - and his partners have started an attempt to get organograms in. Organogram for the Festival is ready. It was unnecessarily delayed by the previous Board of Directors with the risk that there would be no legal re-entry. We move on and it's ready to come into force. Regarding the Director-General: The Board of Directors, while he knew that his presence was in crisis, knew that a decision had to be taken, proceeded to a notice of director. So the picture we had was too poor, why is it that who will come to take such an important place in a body in which the landscape has not been cleared? We wanted, therefore, to temporarily suspend this notice and immediately, as soon as the new Management Board entered, we renewed the notice and gave it a short extension so that more people would be given the opportunity to submit their candidacy and thus have the best possible effect. I assure you, at the moment the atmosphere at the Festival is too harmonious, it works. To answer your last question about continuity and whether the funding from the NSRP and the region is at stake, the new Management Board has already decided to give a company the promotion of this programme so that it will not be wasted and won immediately. So you see that the Festival is on a very good path. I assure you that. Already, the proposals of the Board of Directors and the artistic director are fully identified with our own priorities and educational and in connection with other parts of Greece, so that they are not only in their own area, but also in order to create partnerships with other regions of Greece. So I want to say that we are very pleased with the festival's course right now. I assure you that he will produce his work in the best way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Your Honor, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u24	I want to thank the Minister. Let me tell her, of course, that it can no longer be mentioned in the past, because for twenty-two months now it is your government that makes the important decisions. You are the third Minister of Culture, so there is no room for references to the past. We're all judging by our course. And because I have listened very carefully and have listened to your speech in the budget, I do not really deny your good intentions or the great plans for culture that you personally have. However, I cannot overlook the fact that it should have been planned, specified and quantified - even costly - programmes from the Ministry of Culture before your term of office, so that there is a comprehensive government planning of where we are going, what our aim is, what our priorities are. So that's what we don't see anywhere. And I would really like - at least as far as you are concerned - to avoid what we have so far been used to seeing, that is, organisations supervising the Ministry of Culture, become a warehouse where government obligations or obligations are settled on the basis - as you said very well - of SYRIZA's human biodiversity. I would say, therefore, that because the Minister for Culture of this government is actually on his own in this chaos, dealing with the subject of 'culturalism', which, for us, should be the first priority - for Greece, it is our heavy industry, we will not stop saying so - we should, with the very few physical possibilities that the budget gives us, take it seriously and make it humanely possible, because it is appropriate in the country which has given birth to this culture. It's the least we can do. And I hope that with what you have said to me, at least in relation to the human potential, which has served the Greek Festival, with the people, namely, who have been working for so many years with the Greek Festival, have acquired a know-how and have now permanent contracts of employment, the institution can find the place it deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, my colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u26	I'm the last person to stay in the past. I am using the speech of Eletis "in full". However, I cannot say what I have lived as a citizen and as an artist over the years. I can't say what I'm meeting at the Ministry, which isn't the result of last year, but the accumulation of things, which weren't settled when I had to. And now, in the midst of a crisis, we have to have flexible agencies that will quickly meet the challenges of this time. That's why we have to start by putting a class in their house. That's what I have to say. I also have to say that an effort has already been made, which we are moving forward, because I believe that we do not then continue to discover the pyropolypse - to proceed from the previous mandates of the Ministers for Culture. Your next question, what you have raised, namely, before, for more general planning, perhaps belongs to another question. Time is not allowed right now to develop programming. You know very well, however, that we are at a key point, at a crossroads, with a very big shock that the country is in need of reflexes to be able to respond to this new challenge. I belong to these people who think that the need and the voices of the citizens will show a right path along with the planning of the ministry. We are not one of those who will hat citizens with strategies and views from above. We must listen - and that is what we are doing - to the citizens' movements, to the needs that the country has, so that with these little money we have, we can respond to and use them as far as possible. It is an urgent need right now. We need to change our attitude, to be able to work together, to make cuts as unnecessaryly wasted as possible, which, unfortunately, has happened in the past. That is why I can assure you that our work will be done very seriously and with great responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister. Subsequent to the seventh under number 175/7-11-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the need to immediately institutionalise the special non-confidential account for all enterprises. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Catherine Papanatziou. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the figures for the companies that have already been closed and for the businesses that are struggling to survive in a difficult economic period show that, in fact, there will be a great problem with the extension of electronic transactions on the basis of the bill you are discussing today in plenary and we will have to take care to ensure that they are operated by the freezing of accounts, which are currently being carried out by the Greek State, by funds or by third parties. In particular, there should be a special non-confidential account for professionals, farmers, businesses, on the basis of which revenues can be collected through the POS, which will otherwise extend their establishment and operation, the pay payments of employees, social contributions paid and any operating fee or supplier’s right to continue operating without delay from the seizures to which I have referred. Mr Alexiadis was committed to a previous question. In fact, we also tabled a draft amendment to establish the account. But until now we have not seen any progress. The question is: What is on your side today about the special unsuccessful business account?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, the special non-confidential account really is a tool in the hands of businessmen. However, at the moment, we think that with the tools we have, we will, at least in part, be able to resolve issues of professional confiscation. First, there is the provision of Article 30(4) of the Public Revenue Code, which enables the Head of the DU, at the request of the debtor, to limit, by reasoned decision, the amount or percentage of the confiscation submitted. This is generally about all citizens. A second element relates to the misappropriation of deposits to credit institutions for a single individual or common account, to a single credit institution for each natural person - hence also for natural persons who have a free profession or who have an individual business - up to an amount of EUR 1.250, which we have legislated with Law No.4336/2015. For the share of entrepreneurs, who have businesses - and that is why we are not yet bringing anything about the irresponsible account - there is the law, which comes in a few days' time, of the out-of-court compromise, where the businessman can now find some way of resolving his differences so that no public debts arise that he will have to proceed to the irresponsible account. We believe that, after the extrajudicial compromise, we will see how it will go ahead, what will include and what further consideration will be given to this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you didn't say anything to us. Firstly, the improperness of 1,250 is about life, people's lives. It has nothing to do with business and professions. If you look at the report in the provision itself, you will see that it is about the living of the man and his family. We are talking here about the introduction of a specific professional inconsistent account - and, of course, businesses - of farmers, traders, regardless of whether they are active in the primary, secondary or tertiary sector, on the basis of which the receipts and payments relating to workers - wages, premiums - relating to the payment of operating expenses - energy, communications - are to be made to suppliers. This has nothing to do with the procedures you say to me either in the extrajudicial compromise on outstanding debts or on issues arising from the regulation of the Heads of the IGC, etc. We're talking about protecting against seizures of any operation of an operation. Of course, no one asks, if there are unlimited funds or large sums, that these be protected from seizures. We are calling for the protection of what workers are entitled to, the money of the insurance funds, of the utilities companies, which provide energy and communications. Whilst Mr Alexiadis made a commitment in the previous period to take advantage of our proposals - both our own, of course, and the social actors, the ESS, the GSBEE, all the chambers of the country - and assured us that negotiations with the institutions - as you say them - were under way today, with great surprise, did not hear you mention that perspective at all and that commitment by the government. Have you changed your mind as a government? Has the Undersecretary changed and changed things? Do you intend, or do you not intend to bring in a provision to institutionalise the professional unsuccessful account? The bill debate will begin soon. We have tabled an amendment. What is your point and you do not want to accept this proposal that we are making, since by way of a joint ministerial decision you will be able to resolve all the issues, the implementation and the way in which the amount of this irreconcilable account will be determined? It is, in fact, authoritative the provision it needs. I think you should accept our proposal. I would also like to hear why you refuse to do so by now. Is there any development with the institutions in negotiation that doesn't allow you? Let the House know. Yesterday we had a debate and a political controversy here on a subject which was disputed on the part of lenders or technical scales or I do not know who else. For this, without telling us that there is an obstacle, refuse to bring the order. What's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u34	First of all, I would like to mention Paul 1092/3-4-2014, which enables the Head of the IGC - taking into account the provisions of the Public Receipts Code - at the request of the taxpayer to release 50% of the claimed claim in many cases, which many people do not know. The figure can be up to 70%. I think it's an important tool in their hands. I would just mention it for the briefing. I don't have any controversy about what Mr. Kegeroglu said about the irresponsible account. From there on, however, I would like to say about the EUR 1.250. It is for individual businesses, it applies to all natural persons, and it concerns a large number of entrepreneurs - around the four hundred and ninety-five thousand entrepreneurs - which at least we all know very well how they can recycle it and resolve some issues for the operation of their business. We will come back later, perhaps, on the irresponsible account, after we see what will improve the out-of-court settlement that will come in the next period. We bet on the extrajudicial compromise that it will resolve a number of issues from there and then, if we see that there are gaps, we will review it and see what will go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Minister. Next, the fifth, number 291/13-12-2016, is a topical question from the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister of Health, on the acute problems of the Hospital "Evangelism". In the timely question, the Deputy Minister, Mr Paul Paulakis, will answer. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. The state of public hospitals is dramatic and this is known to everyone. Of course, the ‘Advertising’ Hospital is not an exception, as the problems are huge. In fact, this is a hospital that raises the huge, gigantic burden of patient care and care, not only because patients from all over the territory come to it, but also because in recent years and with the closure of health units in the Attica region, it is taking on an additional number of patients. And of course, because of the economic crisis, our people, the workers, the patients by extension, are directed not only at the "Evangelism" but, more generally, towards the public hospitals, thus increasing the number of patients coming to the public hospitals. The problems do not differ from those faced by all hospitals in our country, with enormous staff shortages. Indicatively, based on the recorded shortages of qualified doctors, these are currently reaching thirty, perhaps a little more, with a view to the end of the year to add more, and in the first months of 2017 even more due to retirement. That is, of the hundred thirty - and - thirty - five, perhaps even sixty - sixty - sixty - sixty - seventy vacancies of qualified doctors. Recruitment is negligible, and is mainly governed by flexible working relationships, eight months, twelve months, subsidiary, and goes by saying that flexible working relationships are generally flexible. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. At the same time, sectors such as cleaning, feeding, keeping and technical services are provided to contractors, with the result that workers in these sectors also enjoy hunger wages, stay unpaid for months, without safety measures and always the threat of dismissal. Of course, it's a lot of issues. In my dentistry, Mr President, I shall say some. In this direction, therefore, the question concerns, as you have said, the Advertising Hospital. And the Minister asks what measures will he take or intend to take in order to deal with these serious problems at the “Advertising” Hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues in this House and in the function, Mr Lambroulis, I would like to say that you do not copy the situation of others, because at least you have a serious opposition. I think you have the ability to recognise that while in 2015 the previous government gave us a provision for financing the 'Evangelism' by the General Accounting Office of the State of the amount of EUR 57 million from the state budget - you have made a mistake in the question, never the budget of the 'Advertising' is EUR 200 million - we have, at the end of 2015, financed EUR 72,639 000 to meet needs. And in 2016, it was funded with 68.370,000 euros plus 3.400,000 euros for the Ophthalmian Center, with which they constitute common management, that is, 71.770,000 euros. You also need to know that this year's 'Evangelism' was financed - and it must be in the bank today and the rest up to the number I will say - with about EUR 11 million from the EEA. This thing, Mr. Colleague, has never happened. Also, some 900 thousand euros are for the Ophthalmian Center. Well, the financial support that, in the midst of commitments, in the midst of suffocating pressure from lenders, in the midst of the negotiation, we have given public hospitals, has no historical precedent in recent years. Secondly, we know very well that the Evangelism Hospital is indeed the flagship of the National Health System. It is the largest hospital in the country, with the greatest traffic, both in regular medical and surgery and in a number of infrastructures etc. It is currently a broad support programme, not only financial, but also staff. Note, in the "Evangelism" today, based on the agencies - these gaps were old, they are not just now - there are a total of two thousand nine hundred, thirty-six seats and seven hundred blanks of all specialties. There is a particular problem with the technical service and the administrative department. We recognize it and plan to resolve it. In the nursing service, there are a thousand two hundred ninety and the gaps are two hundred and thirty eight. There's also a wide range of programs to cover them. I'll say some things later. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] It's one of the hospitals that doesn't have much of a shortage of qualified people. That is to say, four hundred and fifty - five specialists are currently serving four hundred fifty - two, when in total in nine thousand skilled jobs we have seven thousand who are serving. There's two thousand missing. The doctors of the ERC provide for three hundred ninety-seven and a hundred and thirty-four missing. There's a cover program there too. Now I need to say a couple of words about the workshops. We have proceeded with the conversion of work contracts for guarding and feeding both to the Ophthalmiario and to the Polyclical. An invitation to tender for individual contracts has been published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. That's where we were blocked by the DC's decision. At the moment the decision has been taken and they are moving on to the notice to turn them into reality. This is our inevitable political choice. They have clear instructions from the governors throughout Greece and they are judged by it and by how quickly they will implement it, in order to transform all the services offered by the contractors into individual contracts. Because, as far as I can see, I've exceeded my speaking time, I'll tell the rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u39	All right, Minister, we'll see them in dentistry. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, I did not come here to oppose it. The Minister started his protology for me as well, but basically the Communist Party that we are oppositioning, as we do, etc. I think that's our right. We have our way, our political positions and the health part. But that is not our point of view. This is what workers themselves show, the patients themselves who are experiencing the situation in their hospitals. We do not say that the current government is responsible. He's got responsibilities, of course. That's a story that's been going on for years. Of course, the responsibilities of the previous governments are enormous. We're not neglecting this, we say. We didn't come here to file charges. In the question - I think you have seen it, Mr Minister - what we are talking about, regardless of certain numbers - which may also make mistakes, some may be corrected - we have a specific framework of requests, which are registered by the workers themselves in the 'Evangelism', which I mean in passing over all previous years and in recent years and recently, are in a series of multi-formal mobilisations - if you like - in the way they choose to highlight the problems themselves and claim their solution, whether they are personal, or medical equipment, payments, etc. So the dramatic situation is not a word that we invented, it is the one that the workers are also experiencing in there mainly, but also the patients who are taking care of the hospital to have the relevant health services. And now, you see, the workers themselves in all parts, in order to respond - and you know that very well, since you are in the field of health, but that is not a criterion - they are also bogged physically and mentally. And that's for granted and you know it. And this is all about the enormous shortages in staff and the over-intensiveness of their work. So when you have on the shift two or three nurses to respond to 50 or seventy patients of a clinical, fatal is this nurse or nurses and they may be wrong, but at some point this will cost them their health. That's understandable. And we are not dramatising it, but it is a imprint of reality. There is also a number of other issues on which I would like an answer. Now, of course, we don't have the time to develop everything. There's no staff while it's due. The number's a given. You may doubt it, but we won't get in the number. It's due thousands of hours off. They're getting double shifts and nights without a day off. They are abolished by nurses because there are needs in the departments. This, then, is an explosive mixture for workers and much more certainly also reflects health services. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] There are also deficiencies in the technical service, but also shortcomings in the administrative services. For example, the Psychiatric Department is treated twice as many patients as it should be. Of course, because of the particular nature of this section, the conditions are unacceptable, dangerous and unworthy for the patients themselves. Here too, we must stress that there has also been an unjust convicted nurse in a 2010 case involving a fire he put on a patient with a psychiatric problem. Here, therefore, the time-consuming responsibilities of the administrations and the state also emerge. We believe that health issues cannot wait or be treated inadequately, but neither can they be put to the bottom - in the balance of costs. We don't blame the government for having no plan. The previous ones, and the current government, too, have a plan. But there is a common denominator in these plans both today and earlier governments. And that is the cost, what the health of the people in the state costs, but also the cost reduction. This is the common denominator. Thus, the dramatic situation in both the “Evangelism” and the other hospitals is the result of specific policies, both from previous and current government. These are policies built on a fat, in our view, lie that is that in the face of the economic and political crisis for the recovery of the competitiveness and profitability of business groups, our people can, in the end, put forward temporary sacrifices. And in this respect, the services of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of their health will also be greatly improved. These objectives are, in our view, a barrel without bottom. These policies are also due to the continuation of the reduction of government budget expenditure and, on the other hand, the transfer of more expenditure directly and indirectly to the people after the people pay them. We all know that, whether as users or as officials, if you like, in the health sector. This policy, which has as its criterion the cost and reduction of costs, is due to shortcomings in staff, workers and recruitment, if you wish, to subsidiarys with a block and, in general, flexible working relationships, because - because this is proof of the cost - these workers are not charged with the state budget rather than health establishments and hospitals. We therefore say, Mr President, that against this policy workers should oppose their struggle, of course claiming solutions to the acute problems that exist and to the 'Evangelism', as I said before. In the face of this policy, they must stand up and fight against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister, before you reply, I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the "Moraihi School of Education" programme, twenty-two students and apprentices and two educational escorts from the "Morai" School of Municipal School. Welcome to the Greek Parliament, dear friends! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, it is a little tiring, when there is a reality that is evolving in a different way, to repeat an analysis that is not currently in force. We don't have the same political plan. On the basis of what we have achieved in the negotiation, from last year onwards and for the next two years, 1 million, 000, 000, 000 more state money will be given to health from the state budget. Now you can't see it, don't recognize it, and it's already done in 2015 and 2016. Secondly, in particular now, nineteen subsidiary doctors have been hired this year. Since the 4K and 5K notice are thirteen permanent staff. Since the notice of auxiliary staff in May, there have been fifteen of them, nine of whom have already been engaged. Since the CEDEFOP notice, twenty-three people, nineteen nurses and four doctors have been employed for intensive treatment units. One of the permanent doctors has been proclaimed and is in a crisis process of nine people and another six have been recruited by old notices to “Evangelism”. In the notice that came out the day before yesterday via OAED, as we promised...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u43	Minister, how many are there?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u44	Wait a minute! Since the OAED's notice, six people have been hired by old notices and are in the process of a notice nine have become their papers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u45	Recruitment and future recruitment, Minister? How many are going to be in total?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u46	Now listen. The OAED programme was published yesterday by seventy-seven-six people on "Evangelism".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u47	Doctors and nurses?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u48	From the results that came out of the notice in total seventy-sixteen people, I can also give you the distribution of how many they are. Secondly, one of the rolling tables for the six hundred ninety-one people have come out of the results for twenty-seven permanent staff for the "Evangelism". Of the remaining ones, along with the new announcement of the thousand forty-five, which will come out in December - totalling two thousand people throughout Greece - for the "Evangelism" still relates to fifty one and fifteen permanent staff with a very large amount of nursing. And there is also, since the 1998 SAP proclamation, twenty-five people who should have taken up "Evangelism". This whole framework that has been or will be done, is under way, is a huge reinforcement of the hospital, which has been likewise to see, from very old times. This thing at last has to be recognized. There was no such thing three to four years ago. We are fully aware of what is happening in public hospitals. We are fully aware of what is going on in the health field, and that is why we have launched this plan for relocating, stabilizing and upgrading it. From there on, there is a very large program in progress, and to strengthen the equipment of the "Advertising" and the programs that are part of the ESDP and the Public Investment Program and the donation of the National Bank, which will be used to replace a series of other machines with a large balance of 2,500,000 euros. As much as we try to lower it, what has been done for a year in the health sector, in relation to the situation before, is indeed a significant improvement. Obviously, problems have not been solved, because a course of disaster of some time is not solved in ten or twelve months. And I will give an example of this. But the last time is too many messages - such as when I first got into this chair every day we were listening to 'is missing here', 'losing that' or on the other side, 'we can't work', 'we can't work', 'we don't have personal problems' or'my medicine' patients, etc., - at this time in the last four - five months it's growing - because I have a very open communication and primary information, and also through social networks and everywhere - which says 'yes, we have gone, we have solved our problem, we have not taken money, we have been treated, we have been taken care of, it was clear'. This thing has been growing in recent times and from many hospitals and from many parts of the country. There are still complaints, but complaints are being reduced and positive opinions are being raised. And this situation is a situation that cannot be called into question by anyone anymore. And as long as the time goes, it won't be questioned by anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Minister. Subsequent to the second question by number 279/12-12-2016, the first question by Congressman Kozani of New Democracy Mr. Georgios Kasapidis to the Minister of Health, on the malfunctioning of the Pathological Clinic and the closure of the diabetic doctorate in Musceio Hospital of Kosanis, despite the global recognition of his offer. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paulakis. Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I come to this Chamber for the seventh time to raise this specific issue before you concerning the malfunctioning of the Mutual Clinic of the Kozani Hospital and, more specifically, the suspension of the functions of the diabetic medicine that has been done in the past. There's an attempt now to work again. However, the fact is that the Kosani Pathological Clinic fails, since there are now two pathologists and four specialists left. And in relation to the planned number of doctors present in the hospital's operating regulations, where seven pathologists and ten qualified people are required, you understand that it is far too far from the possibilities that this clinic has for it to work better than it is today. The problems began when, after 2009, they effectively left doctors for various reasons: retirement because of their other orientation. This has resulted in the suspension of the diabetic medicine since then. However, an excellent job had been done by the doctors of this state institution, the state doctors, about the prevention of diabetes. They had amazing results, which they were asked to present at global conferences both in Dubai and in America. However, while the presentation in Dubai took place, in 2011 in America they did not go because the diabetic medical practice was suspended. You know it wasn't nice - so the doctors thought - to go and announce that "we did a good job, but the practice was closed". The question I ask you, Minister, is if you believe that this action by a state hospital is worth supporting, and how will you manage to increase the number of pathologists, so that it can function properly and effectively again, as the particular diabetic doctorate in this Kozani State Hospital used to be in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. As far as I can see, you have somewhat corrected the question on the basis of what you said today. Because the question was about the two-year closure of the diabetic medicine. This was a mistake, because the diabetic office has been closed since 2010. Also, you have not been informed that, with the withdrawal of the new administration, the diabetic medicine, which serves about fifteen to twenty patients on each day of operation, has been started even once a week. I should also like to inform you - and I think you should know - that we also made progress at the Kosani Hospital, despite the original provision that was in place and received from the previous government, in an increase in its grant of some 400,000 from the state budget. This and 2015 and 2016. And so will continue in the next period. I would also like to inform you that in total we have supported the Kosani Hospital with around EUR 3 million - EUR 3.003,000 in fact - of which until now have been paid for debts that had been created in previous years, EUR 2,772,000. And there's a remnant of about 230,000 left, which will be given in the next few days. This was a great reinforcement and stabilisation of the hospital in order to be able to pay off all these debts created by the underfunding of previous years. I must also inform you, in relation to recruitment, that nine permanent doctors have been called for the Kosani Hospital, of which the two will be permanent pathologists, precisely in one direction of aid. And we don't just expect them to come. You know that, in cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence, there has been cooperation with the military hospitals in Thessaloniki, which cover without question two other military pathologists, which alternate, the operation of the Kozani Hospital's clinic. This cooperation will continue until the two permanent doctors come from the pathologists we have published. Also, we have created a position of curator II Paediatrician, a position of curator II Psychiatrist, a position of curator II Anesthetics, a position of curator II Radiator, a position of curator II Surgery, a curator II Neurology, a position of curator II for TLs. I think that's a serious reinforcement of the medical potential of the hospital in the area. Also, I have to inform you that overall from the 4K-5K notice they are thirteen people for the Kozani Hospital. Of the five hundred eighty-fifths of the other ancillary staff are fifteen people, all of which are in the process of appointments, some have taken over. I'm sorry, I was wrong. From the 4K-5K notice are seven people. Since the notice of subsidiary other staff is five people, most of whom have already been in charge. Since the announcement made yesterday in the air of the four thousand nursing and other staff with the twelve-month contracts for the Kosani Hospital, there are twenty-nine people who will be in the hospital until the end of Genaris. I should like to inform you that the results of another ten permanent staff have already been obtained from the six hundred ninety-one out of the rolling tables of the previous 4K and 5K. A further four plus three are also proclaimed, namely seven, in the proclamation of the permanent other staff that will take place in December. I think that - and the hospital in your region, like all the hospitals in the country - of course have had many years to see them. Now, as far as her topic is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u53	Why don't we leave the rest for dentistry, Minister, so we can shorten it up?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u54	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Diabetological Doctor has been suspended since 2009, but the doctors have continued to offer their services to about six thousand patients up to two years ago, when after he was extended his stay, the Director of Mr. Simelides, who, even at an informal level, offered his services at the Diabetological Medical School, which had been virtually closed down. Also, the function you said of the doctors of the Military Hospital of Thessaloniki, is about the Bodosaceo Hospital Ptolemais and not the Machacheio Kosanis. I would like to inform you - perhaps you know - that, in honor of this, Vice-President Kozanis, Mr Giannakides, the theme of health, offers his services as a doctor pathologist to cover the gaps that exist due to this subdelegation. I would point out to you again that in 2014, in 2012, for four times I brought the matter to Parliament, when on the planned pathologists, seven out of number and ten qualified, had four permanent and six qualified and in 2014 there were three pathologists and six qualified ones left, to highlight the issue of his dimension, which concerns the problem of Pathological and Diabetic Physician, but at the same time his huge contribution to the global scientific community through his original research into the prevention of diabetes with these state doctors, Mr. Simelides and Mr. Dulianidis, and unfortunately because of the hypotension of the Pathological Hospital was closed down. I directly ask you to tell me whether and in what way you want - I understand that you want with what you said - to support the Pathological Clinic, so that four - five pathologists come back to the number, to reopen the Diabetic Clinic in Mumacheio Kozani, to offer these services again, which have received global recognition through the scientific community, but unfortunately we did not succeed in continuing this amazing work that was done in this state hospital, since today it is trying to better organise the services of the Pathological Clinic, but they are being left out of staff in relation to what was happening in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Colleague, Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u58	Two words to say, Mr. Comrade. Firstly, as I told you in my first speech, the Diabetological Medical School has been restarting its function with the coming of the new administration, even this once this week. Secondly, permanent doctors should come further. For subsidiary doctors we have announced many times, but there is no interest and you know it. Despite the fact that there is an extra allowance granted by the Region of Western Macedonia, there has been no interest, especially for pathologists. Other specialists have come in for other specialties. For pathologists they haven't come. I also know that there has been a problem - and it really is worth a lot of good work here, Mr Giannakides - because private doctors with a block had also been hired. After two failed notices of subsidiary doctors had to meet certain needs. There was a problem with paying these people, which was solved a few days ago and they will be paid for the services they offered. This enables us to continue this thing until the permanent doctors, for whom the call has been made and the crisis is under way. Now, as far as the Diabetic Medicines Agency is concerned, we obviously want to support it. Of course, I was informed by the Health Region that there has not been any information about a study that the Kosani Hospital should enter. Regardless of this, our policy has also been seen by the strengthening of the hospital. Because at first we had done - and I visited the hospital - a choice for five to six permanent doctors to be proclaimed at nine. We are in the process of implementing the proclamation of permanent doctors, for these people to come to service. And it is true that all the departments and all the possibilities they have as scientists to develop, they will develop them. We, as I have said many times, only open, don't close. But to open up, we have to have human resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the second question will not be discussed under number 280/12-12-2016, a topical question by MP I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of the Interior, on state policies for multitude and third families and dealing with the demographic issue of the country, due to lack of competence, because it is responsible for the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. Also, for the same reason will not be discussed under number 94/5-10-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on interventions at the airport "N". KAZADZAKIS’ in Heraklion Crete, because it is responsible for the Ministry of National Defence. It will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotou abroad, or the fifth under No 276/9-12-2016, an up-to-date second question from the Independent MEP Mr. Georgios Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the need to establish conditions in the ongoing negotiation of the renewal of the concession contract of the airport "ELDRERIOS VENIZELOS". They will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion the following topical questions: The first, with number 286/13-12-2016, top-level question from the Second Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Born to the Minister of Education of Research and Religious Affairs, on the rename of the Department of Environmental and Natural Resources of the University of Patras, based in Agrinio, in a Department of Environmental Engineering, due to the obstruction of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause, workload. Also, the fourth under number 292/13-12-2016 topical question by the Member of the Ionian Parliamentary of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Research and Religious Education, on the problems of student housing at the University of Epirus. The third, with No. 273/6-12-2016, is a timely question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Georgios Germenis to the Minister of the Interior, on the "lethal attack by the para-state raids of the Greek Parliament", due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nikolaos Toskas. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. The fourth, with number 285/13-12-2016, timely question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR V.K. Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the protection of consumers from excessive charges on electronic interbank transactions and on the use of credit and debit cards, due to the impediment of the Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Dimitrios Papadimitriou. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. The sixth question, under number 272-12-2016, is the first question of the Greek MP, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the restoration of injustice in the production of electricity from the Home Photovoltaic Systems, will not be discussed due to the impediment of Mr. George Statakis, on account of a workload. The first, with number 287/13-12-2016, topical question of the second question of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgiou Palliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the implementation of the programmes for bluetongue and beeton fever in Lesvos and the operation of the Veterinary Directorate, will not be discussed due to the impediment of Mr. Evangelos Apostolos, due to a workload. The third, with number 277/9-12-2016, timely question for the second question of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the integration of the second phase of the expansion of the district heating network in Megalopolitan Arcadia, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Alexandros Haritsis, because of his obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 3 November 2016 and Friday 4 November 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u60	The minutes of Thursday 3 November 2016 and Friday 4 November 2016 were therefore validated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Government Code, Administrative Justice, Fees - Paradoxicals, Firm disclosure of undeclared income, Electronic transactions, Amendments to Law 4270/2014 and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 9 December 2016 to discuss the draft law at two meetings. The draft law will be discussed in the sitting at the beginning. At the Monday, December 19, 2016, articles and amendments of the bill will be discussed as a unity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u62	The process will be like the previous bill and now the law. In other words, for those colleagues who want to speak, during which the first two rapporteurs will be speaking, electronically will be recorded. I do not specify the end of today's sitting, because we will see how many will be registered during the debate and in consultation with the House and, in particular, the Members of Parliament, we will see when we are going to end today, because we will end today and vote in the first place. Minister, when do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u63	During the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u64	Is that a conclusion to the rapporteurs and speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u65	After the rapporteurs and speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u66	Good. When you go to Stepma, beyond the speech on the draft law, tell us about the parliamentary amendments. I think that the Ministerial Amendments make it clear that they are accepted. If there are other Ministers' amendments, they will come to defend them during the Monday's debate. You, if there are any Members, who have already prepared what you will accept, tell us now or by the end of the sitting today, so that Members may know on Monday and place themselves in the first place. For those of you who have concluded that you will be acceptable to the Members' amendments, you can tell us, so that we know, as well as if legislative improvements occur during the debate, you can ask for the floor to be presented and tabled in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u67	Will speakers be able to re-register on Monday?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u68	Because I predict that the list will be exhausted today, it will not be the case that those who do not have time to speak today are being promoted for Monday. So, yes, in the same way as the first two general rapporteurs will be speaking, those who want to speak, either for amendments or for articles, will be rewritten. 'Cause I predict we'll probably be done today, so there's going to be a re-enrolment. Is there any other comment or objection? Oh, no. So let's get started.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u69	Monday at 6:00 a.m. will we start this afternoon?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u70	Yeah, at 6:00. Parliament's control will begin shortlyer and the debate on the articles and amendments will begin at 6 p.m. Mr. Circa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, only yesterday and by a large majority the House approved the granting of exceptional financial support to pensioners. And it was a vote that the masks fell. At the same time as the country is fighting a great battle, no one can understand exactly what "PARON" means on a beneficial legislative initiative. At the same time, however, when some people are identified with the most extreme positions of lenders, who want the country and the Greek economy to sink, while some follow Shoeble and the extreme lenders, we are determined to take the country out of this deadlock, for which the Civic Opposition has a huge responsibility. You have proved once again that this attitude proves you are willing to serve the most extreme, hardest anti-popular policies. Indeed, in a difficult economic environment, at a difficult economic time, today comes from the government a further bill, which includes radical areas, both in the sensitive area of justice and in the fight against tax evasion. These are regulations which pave the way for a recovery of the economy. They have been placed, both in public dialogue and in public consultation over the past period and they have been added to legislative initiatives, which leave a positive footprint on the direction of transparency, speeding up the administration of justice, combating tax evasion and increasing citizens' access to judicial protection. We are therefore making our basic commitments, for which the Greek people have trusted us and honoured us with his vote. With the amendments, which include the multi-brand plan for the reform of the bankruptcy code, the possibility of re-activating companies is provided and a second chance is made for debtors - natural persons. Measures to speed up administrative proceedings and propose arrangements for the rationalisation of judicial fees shall be adopted. It extends the use of plastic money and can, the money that comes into public funds, be reimbursed through social benefits to our weakest economic fellow citizens. Public revenue is increased and tax evasion is handled, allowing for voluntary disclosure of tax assets of the past. In this way, the principle of equality is being strengthened. It was very constructive that the debate which preceded both at the hearing of the bodies and at the joint meeting of standing committees, where interesting positions were heard, which generally strengthen the legislative initiative of the Government. Therefore, the Banking Code is reformed and in difficult economic conditions, which the country has experienced in recent years, the role of Banking Law becomes crucial for the functioning of the economy and for its reopening, as it regulates the right legal order of exit from the market, as well as the economic restructuring of the firms which have ceased to operate. Indeed, the search for strong institutional impurities is essential to ensure a fair balance of interests, the protection of the weak and the restoration of social peace. The fact is that the economic crisis has led to a dramatic increase in the number of firms in difficulty. The role of bankruptcy law and the regulations that come today is crucial for the functioning of the economy and is a fundamental sector of law, with a regulatory role in the functioning and structure of the market. They are, therefore, multiple benefits from the reform of the bankruptcy code. In summary, a second opportunity is granted and a substantial opportunity is provided to re-activate the honest businessman who has listened. Procedures shall be simplified and accelerated, the time-limits for the development of the bankruptcy procedure shall be shortened so that for non-viable companies bankruptcy can be completed in a reasonable time, and for viable companies the rescue mechanisms should be put in place quickly. It strengthens the functioning of the Banking Act for Sustainable Enterprises to be a modern tool in line with current economic conditions, a tool to address commercial insolvency, with emphasis on its preventive dimension and the need to save productive resources. Measures to speed up and rationalise administrative proceedings, both in the Council of State and in the ordinary administrative courts, are proposed and adopted. The most important points I would like to stress and form part of this bill are: The introduction to the CoR of the legal instrument for the reopening of proceedings by means of a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. The introduction of intra-judicial settlement of disputes by actions for claims under administrative contracts. The introduction of the rapporteur's institution - judge at administrative disputes in substance other than actions. The elasticisation - mitigating conditions for appealing and appealing before the Council of State. rationalisation, with balanced care to ensure the interests, both of the public and of the citizens, of the procedure for suspending the implementation of tax customs disputes, and making it easier for the citizen and faster to grant legal aid. They are now - and this is important - the administrative courts and the irrevocable judgments of the criminal courts. They're rationalizing and reducing fees and paradoxes. Yes, it is us, the government, which reduces paradoxes, so that citizens can have better access to justice, the paradoxes that had increased during the devastating 2010-2014 period. Indeed, the current difficult economic situation of the large majority of citizens implies that the level of these offenses and fees, which are laid down as preconditions for the exercise of legal aid and for other procedural acts, is sufficient to meet the objective of preventing unfair media aid. However, it is necessary to rationalise the financial burdens, and this rationalisation focuses on the redistribution of the offences and fees imposed, in particular to adapt to the escalation of the degrees from which the judicial crisis passes. The Court of Justice shall be abolished in recognizing actions and thus restored the notion of differentiation between declarants and recognizing actions. In this respect - and I would like to point out this - the thorough study of the issue by the Commission of German damages has been greatly exploited in relation to the payment of a judicial guarantee to actions for damages committed by the occupying forces. In particular, there is a reduction in infringements against judgments of the Court of Justice and of the Court of First Instance. Likewise, a reduction in the amount payable in respect of disputes in legal proceedings, i.e. by way of a vote, is also regulated. It's down to half. It is a very important regulation to enable workers to claim their claims on better terms. Similarly, paradoxes are reduced and are changed in the interests of the citizens and the right to legal protection in the criminal proceedings. Therefore, the rules relating to fees and mistakes and compensation are being reformed - one would say - the reduction of this revenue is proposed to impose a deferral - as it has been said - on the granting of deferrals before political and administrative courts, and this measure aims to speed up the process of awarding justice, since its operation is double: on the one hand it balances the costs arising from the procedural act, which leads to the retention of pending cases and, on the other, it has a preventive function as regards the submission of misappropriation requests. Article 52 establishes the participation of lawyers as legal representatives in archiving of collective bodies. We therefore welcome a request from the legal world and hope that the involvement of lawyers will be extended to other procedures in the near future. It has so far been for the participation of judges only as judges in such institutions. The status of lawyers as unpaid public servants, institutions and pillars of justice as such also effectively surrounds the process of safeguarding the public interest concerned. Under the provisions of the Ministry of Finance, the programme of voluntary disclosure of actual income for each taxpayer shall be implemented. This programme is a useful tool in dealing with tax evasion, contributing to an increase in public revenue, without rewarding or encouraging infringement behaviour. It enables taxpayers to include actual income in the property statement, in which all the information on each taxpayer will be collected. In addition, there is no tax amnesty, since the main tax will be paid in full. It is not, therefore, the introduction of an autonomous tax rate, according to the models of previous regulations and programs for the repatriation of capital which they created, the truth is, tax amnesty, and they have not ultimately yielded the expected results and benefits to the Greek economy. These are regulations aimed at strengthening the mechanism for combating tax evasion and strengthening public revenue, by identifying undeclared taxable material, by voluntary disclosure of undeclared revenues of previous years. Indeed, it is stated that those subject to the arrangement will not be fined, defined by a large number of articles on tax, administrative or criminal sanctions. We therefore have the measures, in addition, to promote e-commerce and the fight against hidden revenue. The main objective of these measures to promote e-commerce is the creation of a structured set of obligations and rights between citizens and businesses, with regard to electronic transactions. And the provisions of the bill are based on the logic of incentives for citizens to adopt electronic payments in order to create a solid regulatory framework, which can be applied in the long term across Greece as well. A framework of compulsoryity is therefore in place. The business account shall be established. The framework is in place, which is linked to the income tax deduction - tax-free - on expenditure, which has been incurred by electronic payments. The possibility of exempting certain sensitive social groups is being extended to incentives for electronic payments and to medical expenses, it goes beyond the trade limit, which will be made by electronic payments from EUR 1,500 to EUR 500. They are motivated, by the introduction of public lottery, by a measure which is and has been a strong incentive to other European countries. The aim is to reward citizens who use electronic payments and plastic money, allowing them to even win money prizes. With regard to the expenditure incurred by companies on the salaries of staff - and this is very important - they must now be paid by means of a bank in order to deduct from their gross revenue. The final objective of the bill is the universal obligation to accept means of payment by card, to all companies operating on Greek territory. For us, the in-depth investigation of lists - and we have shown this - is a commitment to the Greek people, so that the limitation deadlines for the public's right to adopt an act are extended for one year to restore the risk of significant cases of increased financial interest and the public retains its rights towards tax offenders. We won't let the blacklists of tax evasion be erased. These lists have been opened and checked for the first time and hundreds of millions of euros have been established since the beginning of 2015. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that this government continues to give examples of writing on the fight against large tax evasion, and it is determined not to mock big tax-growers. We do not put small and medium-sized lawyers, engineers and doctors in the same bag, uninsured young people or those with 'blocks'. We protect young scientists, those with 'blocks', those with low incomes. Our aim is to have more public revenue, to then have a fair distribution of burdens, but also to redistribute the benefit and wealth to the benefit of the weaker layers. These purposes serve the bill. Today's legislative initiative contains important commitments, commitments even of the Prime Minister himself, as recently in PPC, such as the voluntary disclosure of undeclared income and the extension of payments with plastic or electronic money, with a view to tackling tax evasion. High-infringability branches are set by the activation of the bill in a narrow jar, using electronic money and card. We understand the circumstances, which give rise to tax evasion, but we do not justify it, and the fight against tax evasion is a decisive political decision and choice for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u72	Please conclude, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u73	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. In our understanding, however, the issue of revenue is inextricably linked to their social recompense. It is not just a question of how we increase the revenues generated by these arrangements, but of how we support the social state, those who need it most. None of the notorious reforms of the 2010-2014 destructive period did improve the functioning and effectiveness of the state machine, which has learned to operate in order to serve self-interest. These institutional areas have been overshadowed by the governments forty years to perpetuate a regime of non-transparent, interoperable, increased tax evasion and black money. We consistently implement many of our commitments and continue our efforts, in view of the interest of the many to raise the Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is sinking into uncertainty and instability. The micro-party settlements of a collapsed government create a huge problem. The government asks for consensus, but at the same time wants to retain the right to abusive its political opponents, those of whom it seeks consent. The government leads the country to new major adventures and seeks accomplices. Its priority is to manage political time on party terms, when the country has no time to waste. The way in which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is dealing is also reflected in parliamentary work. Literally at the last minute, you have brought in a bill regulating issues of the Bankruptcy Code, the administrative trial, and at the same time, it has the provisions on plastic money and the voluntary disclosure of undeclared income, with anti-parliamentary procedures, which are now inclined to become a norm. This also reflects the way in which this government is negotiating. The assessment is not closed because the government does not complete its commitments in time. The country is constantly facing new measures because the government has no credibility. It does not understand the meaning of the result in politics. That is why the negotiation, which he is doing, leads to more difficult situations. A revelation example is the fact that in the bill we are discussing today for the extension of the use of plastic money, there is no provision for the misappropriation of the business account. Let me remind you that the Prime Minister had announced this in Thessaloniki in September. Or do you want to remember what else or rather what else and how many others Mr. Tsipras had announced from Thessaloniki and proved to be lies and uncovered checks, without any objection? Ladies and gentlemen, the government whenever it's worn or in a stalemate is calling for consensus. Did SYRIZA ever offer a consensus as an Opposition when the country made a titanic effort to reduce deficits and return to stability and regularity? No, of course not. On the contrary, the New Democracy has offered and offered a consensus, especially for the country and the citizens. In the same consensual and synthetic spirit, we have also worked on the issues of this bill. Let me remind you that the New Democracy has tabled proposals on the reform and amendment of the Banking Code in good time. Let me remind you that we have opened the public debate on the extension of the use of plastic money. The speaker had raised the issue at parliamentary level, through questions and topical questions since the end of 2015. Even with public interventions, the government's response from autumn 2015, was that the bill is ready and brought it to the parliament. And finally, after 15 months, it brought minimum provisions, fragments and with a philosophy, in complete contrast to the reformist figure, which had to have a legislative initiative to extend the use of plastic money. I would also like to remind you that in September the New Democracy tabled a comprehensive proposal on plastic money, a proposal starting, middle and ending. Ladies and gentlemen, there is clearly a need to amend the bankruptcy code, in this particularly unfavourable environment, of amendments simplifying procedures, supporting businesses and creating a sense of law and rationality in the bankruptcy procedure. On the other hand, despite some positive provisions, you are bringing in an inappropriate legislative intervention, which is neither partition nor, of course, solves the problems that exist. I referred in detail to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. I quote today the main points: there are no arrangements, which would have been a solution to an important problem, and which is demanding the completion of the bankruptcy procedure and the repayment of creditors within twenty-four months. You could have adopted the proposal tabled by the New Democracy to limit the legal 'irregulars' and clearly define the concept of stopping payments for going into bankruptcy, so that there are no doubts and ambiguities that make the procedure ineffective. You didn't. And not only do you not, but in the bill enter a new concept, the possibility of bankruptcy, where it is very likely that it will create even greater difficulties in the whole process with the diffusive content it may have and the margins it leaves. We have also told you of the serious objections to the article that, in order to reduce the time to discharge the debtor from the debts, there is a request from the debtor and a judicial decision. Because this arrangement will lead to delays and will prevent the debtor from returning to economic activity and normality. We have also proposed the merging of judicial proceedings, so that the procedure can be completed immediately. In particular, the possibility of selling the company in operation or divestment of its individual assets, in the bankruptcy decision, and of not having to take a second judicial decision, as is the case with the current scheme. Some articles on the administrative trial are moving in the right direction, facilitating and improving the trial of administrative courts. However, there is a question of the provisions which provide for the payment of an infringement, as a condition of deferral, at the request of the party. Given that satisfying or not such a request is in any case a matter of the court judgement, we would say that this wording creates an interpretative and practical problem of its application. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to go further with the provisions of the Ministry of Finance, starting with the arrangements for the voluntary disclosure of undeclared income. It is clear that these regulations do not have a realistic basis. In order to achieve such an arrangement, there must be no counter-incident. And in this regulation, there are two serious countermeasures: one is the high tax rates. The other stimulus is that anyone who does not pay a dose and is dismantled automatically loses all the beneficial provisions contained in the arrangement. The lack of pragmatism in these provisions is clear, as is the lack of rationality in others. I am referring to the provision that anyone who enters the arrangement in March will pay an additional 8% tax and whoever enters in May will pay 10% additional tax. Tell me what reason this difference is obeying, with a time span of only two months. I come to the provisions on plastic money, to which much has been invested, but it is certain that they do not constitute a substantial reformist effort, and I will explain why. The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, has tabled a concrete, comprehensive proposal, reflecting the substantial differences that exist, compared to the government's proposal. We, the effort to encourage the use of plastic money, have seen it as a reformist effort, which has multiplier benefits in three areas: firstly, public revenue and the fight against tax evasion. Secondly, to increase the competitiveness of businesses, since transactions in plastic money create economies of scale and growth. Thirdly, to facilitate the direct or indirect benefit to citizens. The direct one is by returning money and by adjusting tax burdens in a fairer way by reducing tax evasion. But what do you do? Besides being indifferent for months, humiliating, your perception of extending the use of plastic money has been of a forced and punishing character. Its scope is limited only to employees and pensioners, who are the only ones, who have an incentive to make use of plastic money, since they have to raise a specific expenditure limit with plastic money in order to apply the tax-free limit. The question, however, is: What tax-free limit? What you have reduced to EUR 8,636 or to an even lower one, such as what you are already negotiating? Because the primary surpluses of 3.5% for many years, which you have already agreed, mean new tax burdens and not to do so you do not understand. Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis We all know that thousands of Greeks are excluded from the banking system. They can't make credit cards or debit cards. Same goes for professionals. Is there some kind of welfare and some arrangements for them in the bill? Absolutely nothing. So we ignore all these people. We don't want to incorporate them into the plastic money trading system? Do we lead them to a parallel framework of the coastal economy or, in fact, "black" economy? The Government cannot understand that the effort to extend the use of plastic money and electronic transactions to employees and pensioners is not exhausted. This must concern society as a whole, all taxpayers and all economic activities. The total inadequacy and duplication of the bill is reflected in the provisions whereby the exceptions will be laid down by the Minister's decision. Why wouldn't there be such exceptions in the bill? Was it so difficult, obviously, to think of the over-aged, the inhabitants of mountainous and inaccessible areas, the inhabitants of the small islands, the disabled? Mr. Tsipras, three months ago, had announced the misappropriated business account. The draft law, however, does not provide for an uninterrupted professional account, in which the receipt of the company's receipts from electronic means of payment will result. This means that there is no incentive for either side of the traders. But the incentives on the other hand are limited, because quite simply, you have limited these incentives to employees and retired people of medium and low incomes. If the government wanted the bill on extending the use of plastic money to form part of and reform, it would have adopted the four main proposals of the New Democracy. Firstly, the mandatory and gradual issue and movement of electronic invoicing, between businesses, in real time and the interconnection of the system with the General Secretariat of Information Systems. I would like to quote one item that I mentioned in committee. Of the 250 million invoices, issued in our country, only 6% are handled electronically. Secondly, the mandatory introduction of electronic invoicing for public and self-government suppliers, which has become mandatory since November 2018 due to a European directive. In our country, however, we must do everything at the last minute and under pressure. Thirdly, the establishment of the limit of use of cash on the basis of rational and objective criteria. The EUR 500 limit was our proposal. However, this threshold should be differentiated by industry, depending on the study and the risk analysis rate for tax evasion. Fourthly, the provision of tax incentives for both sides of trade, because otherwise, there can be no return. The costs of plastic money in sectors and services could be doubled, which we all know is a high risk of tax evasion. There could be a refund of part of VAT to expenditure on the services concerned, where tax evasion has been established. There could be a specific professional account of inconvenience from which, however, all the costs of payroll, payment of insurance and tax obligations and of trade with suppliers will be incurred. There could be provision for a tax reduction for companies carrying out a given volume of electronic transactions. However, I am also obliged to raise the issue raised by the amendment of Article 102 of the bill, which redefined the limit of annual turnover, for which the special VAT return scheme applies to EUR 2 000 000 from EUR 50 000. On the basis of this article, those who have a larger turnover and have liquidity issues are given the opportunity to pay them off, to qualify for the special tax payment scheme at the time the contribution is recovered. It is a regulation of our own government, which we legislated in 2014. We exempted companies, which had been subject to tax violations, recommending tax evasion. You come and remove that exception. I ask you to remove this immediately and to reintroduce the initial exemption for those who had suffered from tax evasion. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill contains 'photographic' provisions, for which the government must not only withdraw them, but also explain them. I shall refer in detail to them in my speech on the articles. It is clear to everyone that this government is a government with less responsibility. It is not a priority country and citizens. It endangers, with great ease and even greater indifference, the sacrifices made by Greek citizens over the past few years. That is why the need for political change is imperative. The citizens themselves are asking for it. The government has a large majority of citizens and society against it. That's why he can't go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u76	List of entries is closed. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotaros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to this multi-brand plan, I would like to remind various, graphics and not, what has been mentioned in the last few days, about the efforts to legitimise the Golden Dawn. Reply: Golden Dawn has been legitimized with the boulder of the Ice Arrow since 1994 and since then this legalization has been renewed in every election campaign. It's a typical thing, but I'm saying it's just to figure out what's going on. Above all, the Golden Dawn is legitimised by the hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens who have supported it in recent years and have taken it to the third place, in terms of parliamentary power and continuously upward trend. So the relatives of its legitimacy and democratisation and all these flammations and turbulence are returning them to you. As far as this bill is concerned, we first want to comment on the fact that it came in the form of urgency. Once again you have forgotten the Rules of Procedure of this House and when some time in the future they will have to come bills, which will really be urgent or urgent, not to believe you. Amidst many years of fiscal and memorial squirrel you bring bills that, in the best case of others, do not have anything to do with reality. We see in this bill that its first part is about changes to the Banking Code. With your memorandum options - checks of the institutions you have led the country into an unprecedented economic and social crisis. Reasonable and expected consequence of this economic hardship, the remaining companies are facing serious survival problems. Instead of motivating, in order to increase entrepreneurship - but what we are telling you now, these are unknown words for you - you are condemning the bankruptcy of a company which may in future, under circumstances and under conditions, present a possible inability to pay. You are giving extremely privileges to creditors, security agents and the possibility of interfering with business administrations at best. I would like to make a comment here. Since you so much want to correct the bad texts that are going on in the business world, you could make a good start with the inconsistency of the state, which owes billions of euros to private individuals, to businesses and does not accept or offset debts between business and the state, but at the same time does not accept anything for the benefit of businesses. Mr. President, please, a little quiet at the audience. In the second part of the bill we see some articles concerning administrative justice. The only positive articles, which we can see in this second part, are those relating to a reduction in paradoxes, which the Greek people are constantly required to pay when resorting to various judicial cases. The third part has to do with paradoxically. And there we are positive, as far as we have discounts on the price of paradoxes. In the fourth place, there is also Article 56A, which is totally symptomical, and even though the Minister has given some explanations, he will have to give further explanations or change it. This coincidence - let us take the case that it is symptomical and nothing else - also actually gives the definitive acquittal of all those involved in a very large scandal, which has to do with 'Athens 1997'. We want to believe that it is quite accidental and symptomical, but it will have to change this article in 56A, Minister, so that we do not give the image and the impression that we are going to take oil off some who were politicians in those years and continue to be politicians, inactive even for the huge sums they ate at the expense of the "koroid" of the Greek people. In the fifth part, we see some articles concerning tax provisions on voluntary disclosure of undeclared income. Here, too, we laugh at what is written and said in this fifth part of the bill. You try to convince everyone who has undeclared incomes, legal, illegal or anything else, and you tell them that they will be taxed with a 60% -70%. Do you think that anyone who has money under his mattress or anywhere else will reveal it will give it to you, and how much more in times of incredible economic crisis, where the count is disreputable and overpriced? You're making a big mistake. Throughout Europe and the rest of the world, the amounts with which these undeclared incomes are taxed are between 15% and 30%. You will, of course, tell me, here you are, the legal income you are now going to tax up to 45% -50%, together with the other contributions and all the other costs that you have borne the Greek people, it is enough for the Greek citizen to pay up to 80%, of the income, especially if he is a professional, in contributions, taxes, etc. Slowly, do not bend back to the so-called 'undeclared income'. Of course, and this measure is not going to have any success at all, because quite simply, almost no one will go to say it. We see Article 57 here, with which you are making a retroactive taxation, which is completely unconstitutional - you know it very well - and it also runs counter to other provisions. It is also absurd, of course, because we hear, see, we read that here you are about to invite the free professionals to pay the contributions, which come from the 2015 revenues. We are talking about insanity, madness, insanity and no logic. In Article 70, we read that it will be possible, through lotteries, to reward taxpayers, who gather proof. Sounds really mean and funny to lure some people with some draws. We don't know exactly what these draws will be. The issue with the next article, Article 71, is what evidence these will be, which will be accepted, what will be calculated and what will be counted on the tax-free. First of all, so far you have not said what will be accepted - although all the information converges on what evidence is not acceptable - and you say that this will be done by the end of the year by ministerial decision. We see that the basic expenses of a family at the moment, which is not to collect, which are to do with the TEKO accounts, light, water, telephone, loan instalments, rent, toll, insurance premiums, public or even fines, which all Greek citizens have to pay by hundreds of millions of euros, are no longer deductible. And what is left to build the so-called 'exempt', as you say? Some meaningless evidence from plumbers - because, you say, they don't cut evidence - or from doctors or something else, or from nightclubs and shops. But when the other guy doesn't have to eat, he doesn't have to pay the basics, do you think he won't cut off and ask for a 20-year cut from the plumber or the electrician or someone else, because at that time this 20-year-old is the supermarket's money? It is also your insistence on the use of plastic money, beyond being supposed to be contrary to what the Left embassies. We are, of course, forgetting this, because in general, what the Left is holding back you have done with it, you have forgotten it. Just yesterday there was a very big investigation, Minister, from Bloomberg that the cash is dominated by all transactions throughout the world. In all major countries, in the United States, Austria, Germany, everywhere, the world prefers cash. Whatever you do, the meter will prevail, regardless of whether you are currently trying to get it from the Greek people in any way, by any means. I am also presenting in the Minutes the study of Bloomberg, which is highly documented to eighteen thousand citizens, in many countries developed, in America and elsewhere, even for their very large markets, to know what is going on. [[At this point the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above study, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For plastic money, in addition to all the other risks involved in plastic money, we constantly see cases - and in the future you will see it when you try to achieve it, although you have imposed it to a very large extent - with various hackers entering accounts, tampering, doing whatever is done and, of course, not being able to deal with it. We see in some article one of the many photographic provisions, in article 106, where you can put the lawyer's name in order to get directly into the FEK, which will be placed in this "speaked" position. Let's go to articles 110 and 111. One of the two of you withdrew it. Here, too, we see how much you are controlled by interests. Articles 110 and 111 were related to the new casino in Greek, for which, of course, as SYRIZA, not only were you not in favour of making casinos in Greek, but you were not in favour of growth, in this way that you voted, like all the parties of the Parliament, but also the Golden Dawn, on the well-appointed growth in Greek. They didn't reach the "investor" that was taken by the Greek scalp and even, in too many instalments, as if they were plots in Luca, with interest-free instalments, they wanted a casino to be the cherry on the cake. But for this to happen, because there was a law since 1970 and said that if within Attica another casino was built, Parnitha's casino would have the right to come down from the mountain and come inside Attica, somewhere in the North Suburbs, so that it would be competitive. And a little parentheses. There are more than a thousand employees in Parnitha's casino living and working there and in difficult conditions, because access to this casino is problematic, especially in the winter months. We all know the problems that the building has in Parnitha. Of course, you'd rather have done something else, but that's another story. And what did you do? Because this was not enough for the "investor" of the Greek, you withdrew, on the grounds that you would otherwise bring it back, his right to change the location of Parnitha casino and to come to Athens and leave and did not withdraw the possibility of making a casino in the Greek. If this is not a complication, indulgence to this "investor", who was manipulating your own government, but also the previous ones, who have been struggling to make the investment in Greek since 2012, what is it? We are finishing with Article 116, which is about how the shops, periods of discounts, and how many Sundays one can open his shop. First of all, all the studies, all the surveys - take all the statistics for the last two years - show that Sundays, which are running shops, have increased to see that the turnover has not increased and where it has increased, it has been reduced somewhere else. There's no more money coming. Some people went to buy Sundays because they bought both Friday and Thursday and came extra on Sunday. Oh, no. Sunday's revenue, which is usually exclusively in the big malls and not in the small and medium-sized shops, is at the expense of the rest of the days and, of course, at the expense of the small and medium-sized ones. That is why Golden Dawn also insists on stable - perhaps the only one now - that Sunday shops should not work, for many reasons: and for religious reasons, because Sunday is the day that citizens, those who want, go and practice their religious duties, it is the day when the family can calm down, calm down, find everyone on the table eating and not, of course, run, others working or others not working and never be. So either way or Article 116, the European Union's attempt to promote the operation of shops on Sunday most days leads nowhere. We would also like to make a small comment on the New Democracy which also comes in this bill and makes comments 'it should be done so, otherwise,'. But you ruled until a while ago for forty years with PASOK. You led the country to complete destruction. Serve constantly - and that is why I do not see you saying a word about Article 56 - because you had brought a law denomination, to relieve the firstborn of the great mass of Athens '97' - was the very well-known n.1856/2014 where you were acquitted - and they had been left with something inadvertently to do with the current government. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are responsible for the unemployment that had reached 26%, the more and the more it remains and the figures are not changed. You are responsible for closing tens of thousands of Greek companies or fleeing abroad that are not burned by the Banking Code, because very simply the rest of those who can, either will close or leave. You are responsible for the hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens who have fled abroad instead of sitting inside and opening businesses. You are responsible for the thousands of people who either killed or tried to kill themselves. You are responsible for the chaos of this country and, unfortunately, the first time on the left is your worthy follower. Clearly we condemn at first sight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u78	The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Yiannis Koutsoukos. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an important bill, which concerns major changes, which are linked to the economy and to society: Electronic transactions, undeclared income, bankruptcy code. But once again, the government has shown that in its way it legislates, thinks and operates, cancels all possible these major and necessary changes and reforms to serve the benefit of society and the economy. I will give you three characteristic examples, before I move on to my united position, to see the fairness of my claim. The inconsistency of the business account is the prerequisite for the success of the electronic transaction system in order not to become a trap of death. The government accepts it in theory and the majority in the majority. All Parliament's wings say so. Professionals are asking for it. Why doesn't the government do this? Because it has leaked that the troika did not allow it. A key question therefore arises: Where does the proud negotiation end every time? It ends up with the fake buffaloes for the help of pensioners, who when Mr. Tsipras announces it here is a thirteenth pension, and when he goes out and gives tests, it is a one-off aid. Is that where the proud negotiation goes out? Secondly, undeclared income. In addition to the result of the incentives of the legislation to which I am going to refer, who, ladies and gentlemen, of those who made their money out will bring them here, legalise them, to put them on the market, to invest, to buy a real estate, to do their job when this political, economic and social climate exists? Who guarantees, for example, the stability of the tax system and that what is currently in place will not change tomorrow? Does Mr. Tsipras guarantee that? Oh, no. Does Mr. Mitsotakis guarantee that? He can't guarantee it either. Who guarantees, ladies and gentlemen, that the labors and sacrifices of the Greek people, which yielded primary surpluses with cumulative measures of EUR 7.5 billion in 2015-2016 and EUR 12.5 billion in 2015-2017, will be transformed into a process of exit from the crisis, to strengthen the development of unemployment programmes, to social cohesion, and will not be transformed into a micro-party strategy game, just as was done with the aid for pensioners? In other words, in order to understand the citizens, instead of seriously discussing with the political parties and with society and with the institutions how the excessive bleeding of the EUR 6 billion surplus will spread to development, the government will lead to a serious negotiation of 3.5% government commitment to overcrowds over the medium term and after 2018 how this will all be done, caught up in a process and trying with its toys, changing the way in which the vote on the aid is voted, encapsulated counter-population. That is why we told you yesterday - Mr Thecharopoulos, Mr Kegeroglou, who I see here, and Mr Papatheodorou said - 'Neither with Tsipras nor with Siomple!'. Mrs Gennama said so yesterday at the meeting with the European socialists and drew up a common line. "Neither with Tsipras nor Siomple. He wants another policy for the country to come out of the crisis." I come to the third example now, concerning the bankruptcy code. I'll tell you where the law is. But also the best piece of legislation, ladies and gentlemen, and Minister, is it possible to exalt the market and bring the results we want on the second chance when the Gordian link of red business loans remains unresolved and when we have no way of dealing with the accumulated burdens on the general public, which have reached 93 billion? How, in other words, will the second opportunity not become an act of death if this is not dealt with in a single package? Unfortunately, we are seeing leaks again that the institutions, i.e. the troika, the quartet, have forced the government not to include small and medium-sized enterprises and the free traders in the debate on red business loans. So a bankruptcy code for who? How will it give the second chance? I am saying this in order to conclude that the political and social environment is toxic, ladies and gentlemen, for the success of such major changes and reforms, which society needs, and at the same time there is a reformist poverty and weakness of the government and government officials, who are legislating in a way of urgency and urgency, only when they are bound under the requirements of our partners and lenders with deadlines which expire on 31 December. And it is absent from Parliament, from its committees, from society, from a serious dialogue that would lead to the completeness of the legislation, to their completeness, so that they could respond to the needs of society. On a proclamation level, the government says that it is doing all this, but on a practical level the result is zero. A hole in the water. So I come specifically to e-commerce. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true, I would say, that the development of technology, changes in the economy, new trading habits, and the necessities associated with the level of our country's tax evasion require a universal electronic trading system. The benefits will be multiple, first and foremost, to broaden the tax base, not to increase taxes, but to be able to reduce them, for commercial customs, for the education of consumers and taxpayers themselves and in particular for the conditions of trade in the market. The government plan, which we are discussing today, is not complete, but is incomplete. None of us, as Democratic Compact, can oppose e-commerce. After all, we, with Mr.3842/2010, have legislated a framework for electronic transactions, which the government, two years ago, has not exploited. And what did we have? In the public debate we have kept announcing the statements made by the Ministers responsible for plastic money, the POS and the connection of this system with the evidence and so on. What was the result? The result was to destroy the government itself and the process of incentives for issuing evidence. The most important thing is that this innovation, which we are discussing today, does not have universal application and does not comply with a system of incentives and anti-motors that would enable it to succeed, as much of the operators, whether as entrepreneurs or consumers, are excluded. These are, above all, those who are out of economic activity, who have no right to tax and, above all, to small and medium-sized and free traders. As I said earlier, these free professionals who have no incentive to join, have a very serious incentive to circumvent the provisions and obligations of the law, as it can change to a trap of death the fact that daily collection can be seized so the next day that the professional can neither pay his staff nor buy raw materials to complete the economic cycle. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am now addressing the majority and its responsibilities - the amendment we have tabled and which describes - with great vigour I would say how this inconsistent account can be formed depending on the type of business, the turnover of the business and the remuneration of the employees, the payments of the creditors, the costs of operating the business on the basis of a decision that the Minister responsible authorizes to make - is the kiss of life for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, so that this legislation does not become a trap of death. And it is the government's responsibility, which was faked - it is allegedly negotiating with lenders, to vote on it. And then, after reaching the proud negotiation, it will take the relevant decision. The rest is for cheap popular consumption. I would say, however, that, beyond this major issue and the others, which concern electronic transactions, they are suffering significantly. No answer was given by the Government to the questions put for the cost of POS and the supply of the banks. No answer! We want to see the government force here. There are reasons every time for a number of colleagues here for their fight with bankers, with capital, with interests. I fell for a feather. Well, bring in a setup. What's the regulation in the law? That there will be a record of what each bank is charging. Greetings! We find it anyway. Will you legislate on the basis of the European directive to lower supplies? That is the crucial issue. You will solve the issue of "TIPENSIA", which the small and medium-sized ones go and don't give them POS because it is under the torso break of the provisions of "TIPESIA", because the crisis led them, they didn't want it. Will you also resolve the issue of the special categories and exceptions, the inhabitants of mountainous, disadvantaged areas, the elderly, and especially the issue raised by the ESDP, ladies and gentlemen, for people with disabilities who do not have access to credit cards that do not have access to them? Will you solve all this? And finally - because I see that time is going to pass - when are you going to make the seventy-five ministerial decisions, to implement the law from 1-1-2017, as you say, since you have people to gather proof of duty? I now come to the other major issue of undeclared income. It has a procedure which, as I have said, ladies and gentlemen, and in committee, it is lacking in relation to other more favourable regulations that have been made in the past, as it gives much smaller incentives. We are not opposed to motivating. But we want to express our serious reservations about the success of the project. And it is not just the reasons I mentioned earlier, the general social, economic environment and the stability of the tax system. These are the same provisions. Watch out. Who will use the provisions on undeclared income primarily? Under the terms of the bill, those who are under the tax sting today, namely those for whom there is a control order, those who have been asked to provide information, those for whom there are temporary restrictions. In other words, what we have today on the corollary's bench, we're going to motivate him as well. To the other guy, the one who has it in the mattresses or abroad? So some will benefit and the result will not be expected. It'll be negative. I will leave the other provisions and will be placed in the articles to say a few words about the bankruptcy code and about the administrative trial with a slight tolerance, Mr President. So I said what the success of the operation depends on a change in the bankruptcy procedure, which will enable people, whose crisis led them to become bankrupt, to enter the market again. And I connected it with a lot of things. But this according to the legislation has too many problems, particularly in relation to the second opportunity and the deceit, which, by another court of criminal law, can be attributed to the bankrupt, the one we want to hand over. As a result, while we make him acquainted with the law, the other judge, the criminal, will shut him down in jail. So what will be the result of this process? To be informed. I'll tell the articles more. We do not disagree with the abbreviation of the procedures. Modernising the legislation is a good thing. But we must look at the end of the day and the result. I would like to say a few words about speeding up the administrative procedure. We're not negative here either. But look, I told you, Minister, and in the House, that the balance of paradoxes is not positive. First of all, you do not have a table, a study to tell us which paradoxically, on the basis of the documents, because some of the paradoxes make them lighten - we do not disagree - and some increase them. A characteristic example is what Mr Karras said about the volume of the document. We're gonna weigh them? Are we gonna measure them with words? Another example is deferral. A poor man, in other words, who doesn't have to pay the 50 euros to get the postponement, what will he do? Is he going to go to the laptop when he's not prepared when an accident occurs to him on the street? I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, because the President will now make an observation to me in the case of the great subject that has been raised by our committee. It nearly took place the battle of the casino, when the government completely withdrew the provision that enabled Parnitha's casino to descend off the border of the Municipality of Athens. Why did the government do that? The government had a provision in place. And the "right" I put it in quotes, because, on the one hand, we block investment in the Greek and, on the other hand, we give them the opportunity to make a casino. Is that right? Since the government gave the opportunity for a second casino in the Lecade, the conditions for the exile of Parnitha casino on the high floors were exiled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u80	Hang up, Mr. Kutsuko, now. The tolerance you've taken with the above.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u81	I'll be back in a minute. The government, as the President of the Association told us, through Mr Flamourari and the other Troika of Maximos, which is making the resurrect of interests, was committed. Then, however, the pressures of the other interests took it back and became the casino in the committee. And the Minister said she'd have a dialogue. If you are going to have a dialogue, Minister, leave the legislature and hold a dialogue on the implementation of the delegated decisions or take both arrangements back and enter into a dialogue on a zero basis. But stop denouncing others about what you do, because, as I said in committee and presenting here in the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u82	Check it out and close, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u83	...yours is the ministerial decision of the Committee on Gaming, which you are casinoing every neighborhood of every city and village with the gaming industry without any limit and without any criterion. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 19 December 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 288/13-12-2016 topical question by MP Corfu of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Fotinis Vakis to the Minister of Tourism on public tourism education in Corfu. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 281/12-12-2016 question of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Javara, to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, concerning the completion of the personalised assessments of ELGA to the God-inflated of Elias. 3. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the financing of journalists and websites. 4. The Question No 293/13-12-2016 by Mr. Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the delay in the payment of the won to the former contractors of the ERT. 5. The 283/12-12-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy regarding the approval of a medium-term business plan for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki (O.L.I.TH).). B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 289/13-12-2016 topical question of the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the use of the Olympic Sniper at Markopoulou Attica. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The 282-12-12-2016 question by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the protection of citizens against fraud and the disseminating of false news by Artemis Sourras. 3. The question by No 274/7-12-2016 of the current question by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of National Defence, on the use of Emmanuel Papapaul and Papalukas camps in Serres Prefecture. 4. The 294/13-12-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the completion of the work of the Captain's School in Heraklion Crete. 5. PASOK - DIMAR Mr Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on measures to combat the smuggling of fuel in service. 6. The 193/11-11-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the New Democracy Mr.Eleftherios Augenakis to the Minister of Economy and Development about the freezing of all public works due to Law 4412/2016 on public procurement. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 285/13-12/2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK 8. The 287/13-12-2016 question by MP Lesvos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Pallis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the implementation of the programmes for bluetongue and bee fever in Lesvos and the operation of the veterinary department. 9. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development about the integration of the second phase of the expansion of the district heating distribution network in Megalopolitan Arcadia. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 938/3-11-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the immediate adoption of the decision on the heating oil subsidy for the period 2016-2017. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 8/3-10-2016 by the Independent MP from Athens Mr.Estathios Panagoulis to the Minister of the Interior about beatings and chemicals the government teaches what democracy means. 3. The question by number 91/5-10-2016 of the First Vice President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Migration Policy, concerning the program for the rental of apartments in refugees from the Athens Development and Tourism View Society (ETA). The sitting will start at 4 p.m. Note this at 16:00 an hour, because we will continue the bill on Monday from 18:00 a.m. That's why we brought in two hours earlier on Monday's topical questions. From 16.00 a.m. to 18.00 a.m., then, the topical questions will be discussed, and from 18.00 a.m. the debate will continue on the articles and amendments of today's bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u85	Why don't we start sooner for speakers to write?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u86	Let's get started sooner, Mr. President. What do we do in the morning?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u87	We're starting early. Instead of 18:00, we're starting at 16:00. Mr Kegeroglu, you are not entitled to complain, because this decision was taken at the Conference of Presidents, which you were present with. That is why I say you are not entitled, because you were present when the decision was taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u88	I'll see you soon at the conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u89	I say this so as not to misunderstand that you are not entitled to complain. Today, for example, Mr Kegeroglu, who has a Conference of Presidents, if it is decided to start at 3 p.m. instead of 16 p.m., we can change it. This decision, however, is the one you voted on. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Vardalis, has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know exactly what SYRIZA's rapporteur, who goes up to this step, told us that the government's policy will take the country out of the deadlock. I know, however, very well - after all, there is the experience of two years - that the workers, the self-employed, the farmers are not going out of the farm with this policy. Instead, their problems will grow. For all those who produce this wealth that we see around us, the deadlocks will grow. So if you remove all these people, the only ones left in the country to save themselves are the industrialists, bankers and shipowners. So when you say you're going to get the country out of the deadlock, in practice only the capitalists are thinking about getting the dead ends created by the capitalist economic crisis. I am saying this because the bill we are discussing is moving in this direction. We have in front of us, that is, a bill that creates those conditions for capitalists to acquire assets and capital, exploit or acquire parts of business or even whole businesses at an opportunity price. Bankruptcy law ensures that, from the remnants of the damaged capital, the economic capitalist crisis first - first - the capitalists, with a special privileged position in the bank and its state. Generally, in the society we live in, a society in which the capital is doing, having the keys to the economy and planning it on the basis of its own interests, law does not usually favour the weak, the workers, but the entrepreneurs. There were few cases - on the contrary, on the basis of experience - where, while we had companies that went bankrupt, at the same time, the businessmen were leaving rich. In any case, those who did not lose were the banks. The changes proposed in today's bill are not a reversal of the situation that I described earlier. The report expresses the view that bankruptcy law can help as an institutional emblem to protect the weak and to restore social peace. We, ladies and gentlemen, have no illusions about the role of bankruptcy in the capitalist economy, and even at a time of capitalist economic crisis, such as the one we have spent in recent years in our country. Bankruptcy law regulates the consequences of the destruction, depreciation of part of capital and, of course, regulates them again in favour of capital and of course in favour of capital. At the same time, bankruptcy law is trying to help build up, concentrate capital, while, depending on the correlations between class and political forces, it is trying to get back conquests, such as the privileged satisfaction of workers in bankrupt enterprises, which the working class itself has occasionally conquered. After all, you yourself in the explanatory statement admit that the role of bankruptcy law is crucial to the functioning of the economy. Which economy? That capitalist economy. In other words, it is a key factor in ensuring the interests of capital. Taking into account the capitalist economic crisis, the need for economic restructuring of the companies affected by it and with a weapon by the bankruptcy law, you are trying to regulate matters in the functioning and structure of the market, to help the honest businessman to have a second chance, but despite his honesty, he has listened. That is why the exemption is being introduced in an attempt to dismantle socially, so that the second chance can be made for bankrupt debtors. That is why you fully exempt the debtor, after two years, from the balance of the claims of creditors who were not satisfied with the bankruptcy. You are making the bankruptcy process more flexible and therefore more effective so that, without any time being lost, the mechanisms that will save the capitalists and their businesses - those of course they are found viable - or change hands by going to other entrepreneurs. Of course, the changes proposed in bankruptcy law must be seen in the context of the overall policy of strengthening the capital which the current government follows and implements. Government, bankers and investors, on the basis of the management of red loans, business restructuring and in conjunction with the procedures for the liquidation, bankruptcy or resolution of firms in difficulty, are escalating their anti-population attack. Your aim is to get out of the frame of shareholders and businesses that cannot follow the race of competitiveness, which are not competitive. And, of course, the prospect of business restructuring, mergers and takeovers also comes to serve the next hits at work, such as collective redundancies in the new trade union law and others, which are at the forefront of the second assessment. All this, in our view, goes to packages and all it works to the detriment of the workers. What are you actually doing? With the bill we are debating today, you are making an effort to comply with the guidelines and the agreements you have made with the quartet, that is to say, to make the bankruptcy code more effective, in order to achieve better the results that capital wants in the current circumstances. As regards the measures to speed up and rationalise administrative proceedings, the paradoxes, fees and so on are the following: firstly, to implement the objective of the memorandum, which is also the objective of capital, to speed up justice. Secondly, in total, you maintain and enforce new paradoxes, despite SYRIZA's opposing statements while they were in opposition. Of course, a number of paradoxes or fees are being abolished or reduced, but at the same time, new ones are being imposed or even existing ones are already being increased. Thus, in total, with the various advances made, the cost and burden of workers and the people's classes who have recourse to justice remains the same or in some cases larger. And finally, introduce certain measures that are priorities for capital, such as the potential facilitative regulation for the co-operatives referred to in Article 23. Ladies and gentlemen, the money laundering of undeclared funds is, in our view, also the money laundering of the law. These are attractive provisions in favour of the capital that this bill promotes. What is the content of these attractive provisions brought about by the Congress to strengthen capital is understood by the provisions of the bill itself. It gives the possibility - see Article 57 - to submit a declaration with a reduction, subject to conditions and, where appropriate, by the statutory charges - that is, additional taxes, interest and fines - even those already notified to them, or to those who, at the time of filing this House, have already been notified of a provisional correction of tax. For those subject to the rules laid down in this Law, no fines of L.4337/2015 shall be imposed or other tax, administrative or criminal penalties. Of course, amounts derived from criminal activities are excluded, i.e. money coming from drug trafficking, arms and so on. But it is certain that even if there is money from such activities, there is no possibility of being declared as such. In fact, we are dealing with a number of provisions for granting amnesty tax, even for offences such as money laundering, tax evasion, smuggling and more. These are beneficial provisions in favour of pluralism, which will also apply to cases for which checks by the tax system are already being carried out. As far as plastic money is concerned, this premier with the introduction of all transactions through bank cards will not benefit anything, but nothing, the people. People's strata have nothing to gain. Invoking the explanatory statement that they will restore growth, in fact in a social context, can only be taken as a joke by the people's strata and workers. You claim that the fight against tax evasion, smuggling and corruption is your first objective and that is why you are constantly fighting for it. This case once again comes on a witch hunt. It aims at the small tax evasion of the self-employed, leaving the framework for the operation and action of the large capital intact. The whole plastic money itch allows accurately to record the transactions of the self-employed and aims to drastically cut the avoidance possibilities they have had up to now. To some extent, however, tax evasion of self-employed workers has been a historical method in which they have sought to compete with the largest companies which, of course, have many opportunities of legal tax evasion. Pressure to eliminate tax evasion to self-employed workers substantially changes the terms of the game at their expense. In other words, it helps to disappear and to strengthen the large business groups, which, of course, are tax-free in a thousand ways through the tax exemptions you have introduced. Let me not remind you of the tax exemptions from the capital of the various development laws, but also of other practices used by the large business groups, because all of you know these practices very well. Therefore, you intend to catch the neighborhood's mini-magata, the self-employed, the tavern. They're the ones you're targeting. Of course, you have other objectives with the introduction of plastic money. The introduction of the compulsory treatment of all transactions through banks means that all money is concentrated on the banks, which will manage it for their benefit by speculating, but also to the benefit of the large capital in general, using this money for loans to the capitalists, that is to say, making investments and bringing about long-term growth. It is only from this development that the workers and the people, the self-employed and the farmers have nothing to gain. You're telling us you're going to catch the tax evasion, and with this money you're going to have a better social policy. First of all, if you wanted to do social policy, you would have taxed the big capital. This is the purpose you have neither had nor had. This legally evade and prepares him new privileges to invest. After all, two years now the practice and the government show you that state revenue is going for repayment of loans, subsidies on capital and capital investment. You throw a few crumbs on those who live in extreme poverty. The use of plastic money in transactions that are pretentious of the fight against tax evasion is coming to swell even further the rafts on the incomes of employees and pensioners and other categories of the people, since a regulation is introduced that all taxpayers should spend at least 10% or 20% of their income, depending on the level of their income, in order to have tax-free income. If they do not cover this amount, then the tax is increased depending on the residual amount of proof required. In other words, this is a further artificial compression of the already paid tax-free limit. Finally, a great deal of discussion was held in the Committee on Rule 52. I shall refer to the other articles on Monday in the debate. But because, Minister, this article is of great importance, I would like to say a few things to take them into account. The article deals with the antiquities of unions and the replacement of judges by lawyers. For us, the master is not gonna be judges or lawyers. It is hypocritical, in fact, to say that you are doing so to deal with even part of the rescheduling of lawyers. If you wanted to deal with this problem, you wouldn't have put them inconceivable taxes and contributions. You would overall pursue another policy toward them and to the small and medium-sized self-employed scientists. For us, the main is to ensure fair procedures in the archaeology of unions. Experience has so far shown that over the past few years - I am not saying for the last two years - we have, unfortunately, had a great deal of illusion. But this is not a question of whether we will have judges or lawyers. The question of illusion, alteration of the results, the only one who can deal with it, is the reorganization of the labour movement itself and no one else. Of course, someone will tell me until that happens, and so on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The current situation does not leave us indifferent. We also want certain types of insurance to be available in the current circumstances, so that this can be ensured as much as possible. Something like that, Minister, does not exist in this particular article. For example, the judiciary will be designated by the Bar Association. That's what we're looking for. Will he be able to be a lawyer at the same time as a legal counsel of unions? Who can prevent this from happening on the basis of the wording of this article? How, for example, will the appointment of the lawyer by the Bar Association be done? Is it going to be a draw, in turn? We suggest that it be by draw. What will be the level of the reward, for example? The problem of many unions - and I think you know - is the existence of economics even for their operation. And too many unions do not have the opportunity to pay EUR 10,000 and EUR 15 000 to run elections, especially in today's conditions. Because some big unions do ten days of election. That's all they get.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u91	Don't expect answers. When the Minister is placed, he will answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u92	That's what they get for 15 days of elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Bardalis, please complete. Your Minister has heard and will answer his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u94	I'm done. Such safeguards cannot be decided by the Minister in ministerial decision. In our view, they must exist in the law. Such amendments should therefore also be made. For these reasons, for this article, we will vote'residents'. For all the above reasons, we are voting against this bill. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u95	I will give the floor for about a minute to the Minister to report legislative improvements and to present them to you in order to distribute them to you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. We submit a series of legislative improvements that are literally legal, i.e. grammar corrections or corrections to numbers that were wrongly set by mistake. Only one provision is of particular importance. We extend the possibility of not paying a judicial mark, what is provided for in the law in the final actions, and those voters, but which, by a statement from the lawyer, will be converted into identifiers, so that we do not have delays and delays during the trial. I have taken the floor for what I have asked you to do, but I want to make a reference for half a minute to what my colleague said at the end, which concerns lawyers. Mr Colleague, you raised an economic issue. Whatever the judges get, lawyers will also get. It doesn't change anything about it. So what you have said to us here today is rather a 'feelsheet of figurative' to actually vote against - because by voting 'at present' you are actually voting against - a provision on which the legal world has now placed itself in a very short time absolutely positive. And I wonder whether today's position on the subject of the Communist Party is present. I wonder. Thank you, Mr President. Please for the distribution of legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u97	After the clarification you may give until Monday, it may change your position, but today Mr Vardalis is specific. Mr Kammens asked for a telephone call, because he is present at a party event, not to be deleted. He's not deleted by the Bureau. But don't waste time. Mr George Amyras has the floor, a special speaker from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing, and I think quite substantially and creatively enough in recent days and in the committees and here in plenary, issues relating to some, I would say, of vital parts of the operation of the Greek economy, such as the bankruptcy code and its changes. I would also say that there are some small initial steps for some reforms that we see as positive and that they should be accelerated. Of course, there is the defensive attitude of this draft law to open major issues. And I am referring to the bankruptcy code, which is certainly a renewal. But how different our feelings and positions would be, if we were to talk about updating the bankruptcy code at another time! Now, however, it is unfortunately becoming more timely than ever. Why? Let us look at the grim environment in which Greek entrepreneurs, Greek workers and many sectors of the economy are moving. First of all, the nine months of this year, i.e. from January to September 2016, according to the figures of the General Commercial Register of GEMI, we had twenty-four thousand thirty and thirty-three businesses, and opened twenty-six hundred and fifty-four shops and businesses. So, in fact, we're talking about definitive death within nine months in 2016 two thousand six hundred seventy-four businesses. This is very serious and it's one of the bells that ring in our ears. A second bell that strikes is, of course, the record that our country has, unfortunately, in the euro area in terms of unemployment. It is the only country that has, according to Eurostat data, more than 50.4% of youth unemployment and the general indicator reaches 24.1%. In this climate, we heard the evidence that came from Berlin from the Minister of Labour, and we all were, of course, tempted to read in figures, that a hundred and twenty-five thousand workers were paid less than 100 euros a month! This is not just a galley, but incomprehensible and should have lifted the hair of all of us, we don't have one! Also, within a 12-month period the rifles spread through uncovered cheques. Look out! Within nine months of 2016, uncovered checks reached 640m euros. You'll tell me there's always been an uncovered check on the market. But there was no such thing as that. If we make a comparison with the nine months in 2015, we will see that at that time the amount of uncovered cheques was much lower. In other words, the EUR 144 million had arrived, and today we are talking about EUR 640 million. This shows that, unfortunately, the trend, the flow, particularly of trade, will be downwards. Moreover, in such an environment, one would expect that individuals who are trying, working and striving to survive in the crisis would have a series of priority in terms of repayment of the public debts that are due to them. Sure! According to the latest ESM report, we have the following: EUR 5.7 billion owes the state to Greek individuals who attempt, who provide the State with services, goods and goods. So let's take a look at this latest ESM report: clean, dry, overdue debts are EUR 3.6 billion. Approximately EUR 1.5 billion is the pending tax reimbursement, EUR 1.6 billion is the unrealised refund applications that, unfortunately, are plundering tax revenues and EUR 1.4 billion are late pensions. They are the pensioners who are waiting for one against, waiting for their own pension to come out so that they can survive. And since yesterday's news was clearly awarded with the EUR 300 aid to about one million pensioners, I would like to remind you that very soon, on 22 December - a very nice day, but a very short day, because we have the biggest night of the year - we have the final and final pension reductions given the reduction and disappearance of the CSR. Those who receive a pension of up to EUR 664 per month - the sum of main and subsidiary - will lose a total of EUR 440 million. In other words, be careful, you get 440 million euros from the pensioners - why the ESS is cutting them - the low pensioners of 664 euros and it says 'I now give a 600 million aid' to a portion of the pensioners. You can't take it from one of the retired person's pockets and give it to another retired person's pocket. This has no economic sense and no seriousness in its approach. Will the bakery say to you, "I'm the one who has smashed me into taxes, where are my taxes going?" They leave the baker and go into the small pocket, for example, of a retired person, when the other pensioner or even himself will suffer another reduction in his pension. Ladies and gentlemen, the level of poverty in Greece should make us all ashamed. One in three Greeks is at risk and is on the verge of poverty. So poverty is something that concerns us all, we see it reflected in ELSTAT's figures. And there you say that perhaps the government's attempt to repatriate undeclared funds will produce some results. I, Minister, honestly tell you that, I hope that this will succeed. I very much hope it works. But I'm afraid, do you know why? I'll tell you why. I see what has happened in the past, what has been done on Horseshugs, L. 3259/04. What did Article 38 say? He said that 3% tax rate on the value of capital that one comes to say so. How much did the country, the Greek public? Well, collect 18,700,000 euros. A total of EUR 625,000 has been entered in the country and the funds - as I have told you - accounted for less than EUR 20,000 000. Six years later, in 2010 on Yannos Papantoniou, then Minister of Finance, we have a new law, n.3842. So there is a tax rate of 8% on the value of the deposits hidden, whether their owners or other undeclared incomes had hidden, and to see what the government collected at the time, with Minister Papantoniou? Hang on, it's versatile the amount: The revenues for the Greek State were 6,500,000 euros. Well, then, we're talking about an effort that I don't want to blame, or the law of Horseman, or the law of Papantoniou...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u99	I have the impression it was Papaconstantinou and not Papatonius.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u100	In 2010? What did I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u101	"Papantoniou" you said three times..
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u102	Papaconstantinou! You see, I have the two Pope in front of me a little confusion. Mr Papaconstantinou who - I want to tell you this, ladies and gentlemen, since now I have to make a special report to restore the flow of things a little - has not escaped. When invited, along with George Papandreou to take the "hot" potato in his hands, he didn't throw it away, nor did he throw it a little bit and give it to the next one. They stayed there. They made a lot of mistakes. But I recognize them that they stayed there like the ambulance arriving in the fire to pick up the burned tenant. That was where the country burned, if you remember, we were, of course, to the limits of bankruptcy and dung up in a very unclear future. Now the future is clear? I'm afraid not yet. But why all this, Minister? As many laws as we can bring back funds, they seem ineffective, why? Because we don't have an IRS, to say it like the Americans do, an IRS that is shaking it all. No one dares, from the president of America, to the last economic actor to steal the tax. So you stole it, you burned it. Here in Greece, did you steal it? You're cool! Ladies and gentlemen, we are in agreement with the amendments to the Banking Code, we will vote in favour. We also agree with 'plastic money' regulations. But, Minister, and yesterday I put it to you, tell us what will happen with the bank supplies? They cannot charge up to 3.5% the value of each transaction made by card. I am sorry - I will simply say it popular, with all due respect to the room - is a pimp. This is where the market is struggling to recover, save, regain ground. There is also a European regulation, which defines the minimum and minimum provisions that banks can obtain from the transactions of all of us, which I propose to you, that is, what the European regulation defines, follow them as quickly as possible. I'm coming to the casino thing now. In fact, it was impressive that the Minister's move to keep article 110 for the creation of casinos in Greek and to withdraw Article 111 that enabled investors, owners with the Greek State, to take a second casino license to Athens to descend from the mountain and to go to an area outside, of course, from the border of the Municipality of Athens and the suffocating tissue of the city of the center. So you withdrew this provision and said you would bring it in January in general for casinos. So, the Greek isn't a casino? Does this not have to be included in the general regulation? What's the Greek casino? Ladies and gentlemen, because I see the new children who have come from a school or a school - the President, Mr Kaklamanis, will tell us - and they are watching us, I would like to tell you and I would like to strike the alarm bell for these toys known as VLT. Look out, ladies and gentlemen. Now, by decision of the SYRIZA Government and the ANELs, any neighborhood, any street in the city can have play-players in it. What are these toy manufacturers? It's the crack of gambling. These gaming machines are the most addictive for someone who gambles, plays or goes for entertainment, based on scientific research. The President is a doctor, so I think he will understand better than anyone that, according to the survey - and I will be tabling the key elements - scientific bodies in America, it has been shown: The players of these games, who unfortunately will be able to be in every building in any part of Greece, spend more money than any other type of gambling, while the risk of developing gambling pathology is too high with players being rapidly driven to costs of EUR 50 per gambling session. Do you understand that? "Paf and taliro," they used to say in an ad for cigarettes. Here is the 'puff machine and fifty euros'. Why are we driving young people, the world, into a tolerance and, slowly, in a chance of going down the street and entering the grocery store and gaming at the gaming industry? So I want to draw attention. We must, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, in particular, address you - and you must rise up. Do you know why? I have heard a comment: 'Don't get up!' That's right, too. But perhaps, if they understand the elements I will give you and assimilate them, perhaps something will happen, ladies and gentlemen, of counter-population. The Committee on Gambling Supervision, appointed by the Minister and having nine members, takes out the regulations on the operation of gambling. Watch out, then: In June 2015, a year and a half ago, each player could play and lose 80 euros a day. From November, when we were spent a month ago, the committee, by changing the regulation, set an unlimited limit of damage. At first, with the June 2015 regulation, anyone who went to play in the slot machine and in these games would have to give their VAT. With the new regulation of November 2016, ladies and gentlemen, this is going too. Anyone who wants to get in, anonymously. If he wins, he'll have to give his name and his VAT to get the profits. But does everyone win? How many people go in the pocket with money, and how many fucked up do they get? Also, until November 2016 a player could only play up to ten hours a week or thirty-two hours a month in these little casinos. Now he plays as much as the player wants with the new regulation of the Audit Committee. Also, while the operating hours of these small casinos were set from June 2015 to November 2016 in 14 hours a day, it is now seventeen hours a day, the daily I mean. And on weekends, sixteen hours, the government took it to the nineteen hours of play. The minimum distance that the regulation said between small casinos, which should be two hundred meters, was abolished. Do you want me to tell you the nicest thing? Do you know what else was abolished by the new regulation? The ban on smoking in these areas. Well, what else? So these machines, I tell you, are highly addictive again - and I would remind you that they are very addictive. The European Union has set strict limits for fewer machines within the urban fabric, for a few hours per machine player, because they are highly addictive. I would therefore make you dear and dear ministers of government, as a community of this problem, and I expect your reaction. We cannot make the country a merciless little casino. Any children who are able to play in such a small casino are in danger of being addicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u103	He doesn't have any children.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u104	Eighteen and up, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u105	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u106	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u107	You abolished the obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u108	Please, Mr. Constantinople, when you speak, say it. What are you yelling at?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u109	In any case, we all agree that there is a problem here, that of addiction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u110	The previous government of 2011 was the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u111	Finish it. Leave the dialogues. Mr. Amyras, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u112	Your government's rules of procedure did him. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u113	Do not write anything in the Minutes. Finish, Mr. Amyras, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u114	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Constantinople, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u116	I'm glad to have a lively conversation, but to find a solution...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u117	These topics don't want voices. With serious words, they are resolved not with vocals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u118	I agree, Mr President. To find a solution on the basis of simple logic. We shall vote in principle on the draft law. For some articles we reserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "Kappostiria", organized by the institution of the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and three teachers from the 1st PES Glyfada. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And we close, because Mr Kammenos - as I have said - will be coming later, with the last colleague, Mrs Theodora Megalo-Economist from the Centroon Union. After the speech, the Minister will take.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that in a country that is economically damaged, what is necessary is the relaunch of the real economy, in order to finally clarify the day from the wheat, to clarify the operators who have suffered a total disaster because of the economic crisis by those who have been the cause of the crisis. Only if we learn from our mistakes can we be reborn as a nation and as a state. So the bills for improving justice and the economy under these circumstances are the most important drafts of laws, which we should also bear the most important burden, what we had to listen to the pulse of society, the bodies, the citizens, what we had to consult as much as possible. In this draft law we had to compile opinions, listen to and help as far as possible and according to what everyone represents, but the urgency procedure has been chosen. And I ask, Minister, what's the emergency? Why has there not been any real dialogue in the committees? You may think, of course, that Parliament has a decorative role and that your ministries' services are more competent than Members. In our democracy, however, we have been designated to legislate and not the partners. We invite you to do so, and we point out that, with these logics, the country will not progress, while reminding you that, when you were opposition, you blamed the governments at the time for what you are doing. In any case, we have specific issues on the bill that we want as the Central Association to raise, in the hope that we will be heard. Firstly, time limits and clear timetables must be set for the administration of justice in general, but above all for bankruptcy issues. Bankruptcy law, unlike the administration of justice between individuals, affects a large part of our society, private and public economy. Where a company is drawn up either for bankruptcy or for resolution, it is involved in the agony of survival of workers, property of others, creditors, public and insurers. It is therefore unacceptable that an application for bankruptcy should be filed today and tried after months and, much more, that the procedure should be completed after years. Really, can we build up a modern operating public economy when that reality exists? I remind you of the reports on the rescue of the biggest supermarket chain, which is not about the businessman as well as the public, the insurance funds, the hundreds of suppliers and thousands of workers. Thus, it concludes a case of resolution of this size to affect almost everyone. Procedures for the resolution or bankruptcy of an undertaking must be given absolute priority and ceilings set for each procedural stage. Within 10 days the debate, within 20 days the decision, within six months, to complete the procedure. The figures that I mention are indicative. The main thing is for the creditor to know what he has to deal with, to know whether the worker is going to work or to ask for another job, and, of course, for the businessman who has not done it to be able to return to the production process with a plan and a draft law-maker. The second thing we disagree vertically is the question of seeking responsibility for the members of the board of directors of public limited companies. It is a crime that is trying to legislate. It is incomprehensible and suspect that you are looking for responsibilities to the members of the board of directors, who fraudulently or through gross negligence, or to those who have created these intentions to the members of the board of directors. You unleash a witch hunt with a wording of a law every judge will judge him the way he wants. There is no precise definition of the above concepts. Anyone can challenge anyone to do or not to do anything. I think that this provision should be withdrawn. I would point out that a few months ago you abolished the provision by which the small shareholders of companies were responsible for their personal property, which were bankrupt and owed insurers. Obviously, what you have legislated at that time is by a degree contrary to what you are bringing to the vote now. Because you either think that we should look for personal responsibilities beyond the president in the mismanagement of capital companies or not. Thus, one of the two arrangements is incorrect and anti-developmental. We believe that the regulation introduced by this draft law will destroy any entrepreneurship. On the one hand, good businessmen will not risk a necessary element of entrepreneurship and on the other hand foreign investors will obviously consider us out of reality. Those who will not be bothered are, of course, dishonest people who will find ways to cope with, creating a new profession, the "front" professionals in anonymous companies. You should know that many companies in our country are family businesses and the members of the board of directors are at the same time members of the same family. In possible destruction of the company, this article draws on the destruction and the whole family. The children of businessmen often, if not always, have no real involvement with the management of the business. I would like to point out that the regulation is extremely undeveloping, and in the explanatory statement there is no justification at all and at the same time there is no connection with simple common sense. This article may have been inspired by a man who has never worked in his life and we invite you to withdraw it. Perhaps something is hidden behind this arrangement, perhaps some of the debts you want to look for, but you know that at the same time you are creating major problems in much of the business world. With regard to bankruptcy, it is in the right direction to upgrade the role of the bankruptcy rapporteur. But it must be done with the simultaneous provision of materials and people's infrastructure and cooperation that it will undertake. All the justice infrastructures must be strengthened, as it will suddenly come to light, so that it will devour any beneficial issues that we have to vote on. In fact, now with the introduction of infringements in favour of the Court of Justice Fund, you can do so more easily. In relation to the insolvency administrators now, I believe that the provisions concerning the activation of the register in question must go through the usual parliamentary work. There is no explanation why we will not legislate on this matter. It is not just the question that provisions may be confronted with problems in the field of application, but Parliament, the Members and the parties should be informed about the individual arrangements, and they should make specific proposals on this matter. Who will be managers, what will they have studied, what experience will they have, how will they be defined and many other questions arise. As a Centro Association we can table specific proposals on this issue, and we invite you to bring it to the House. Furthermore, in relation to the matters of justice, we disagree vertically with the limitation of the grounds for appeal and appeal to the administrative courts. If you consider or have suggestions that judges cannot cope with the large volume of work they have, then perhaps you should solve this problem by hiring judges and increasing the organisational positions of the courts. These practices of prior rejection go beyond the limits of veto. And I wonder: Why don't you do these thoughts in politics and in criminal justice? The answer is that because it is obviously a big mistake, with which the legal world does not agree, other than those which recommended it. And perhaps I could hear a reason for the appeal, which of course I disagree, but also to introduce restrictions into the appeal, is something that is unacceptable. You are abolishing the second degree of jurisdiction, abolishing the citizen's right to seek practically his right and especially when the state is illegal. In order to resolve matters of delay in the administration of justice, we are resorting to methods outside the legal framework, which I believe justice itself will be abolished. As far as justice is concerned, we must credit positively to reducing suspensive and political suspensive. It was a measure that didn't pay off and it turned out that when people feel unfair, they would seek their right, no matter how expensive it cost them. We are all concerned about the slow procedures of Greek justice, due to the large volume of cases. But a great deal of cases in the criminal proceedings are also persecutions against our fellow citizens from the state itself. However, we must stress the following: in the report by the General Accounting Office accompanying the bill, there is no calculation for the reduction of revenue in general from the cases which are being reduced, but also especially from the recognizing actions. That is unacceptable, and that is also an issue I mentioned in introduction to the urgency procedure. We need to know how much money the public will lose from this arrangement. The reduction of offenders, of course, for the citizens' more financial access to justice does not find a reasonable sequence with the introduction of any deferrals, because on the one hand, you relieve the citizen of the original expenses of the month, but on the other, you oblige him to pay him the possibility of postponing the political and administrative courts. However, also a positive arrangement to identify in the bill the chronic problems of the administration of justice remain. The actions will continue to be identified after five years, when the citizen has been alienated from his industrial demand. On economic issues, we now disagree with the logic of imposing plastic money, especially in the way it is done, especially in a period of capital controls. You're looking for black money where it doesn't exist. So you think that the beader if he pays the coffee or his small-coast bill card, you'll find the black money. One must inform you that society is not evading tax because it has no income to hide. There are ways to find the black money on the bank lists, the smuggling, all those we all know, but you haven't done it yet. So one can reasonably ask himself: why do you want to force people to pay everything through banks? The answer isn't to press black money. The answer is that after this bill you are preparing a new regulation which will put an end to banking transactions. So when all of us are forced to pay by postcards for each transaction, a small amount will go to the banks. For the truth, I have two publications at my disposal a month and four days ago. Another issue we disagree with is the regulation on the obligation to declare secret money if it is accompanied by high fines in the future. The state should seek to achieve the people's trust in it before entering into these logics. No one who in the past made money abroad is going to bring it back. And this with all the announcements and promises and give of the opposite. No one trusts a state that will charge it with fines and criminal persecution. Unfortunately, here, we do not know what tax we will pay for next year. How can you trust the citizen to bring his money into a system that can be confronted with confiscation, but also with the deprivation of his personal freedom? After all this, what is certainly clear is the bill that we are debating deals with extremely serious issues which, however, deal with them improperly and often epidermally. It is not a question of voting on something that, instead of solving some problems, will ultimately create further issues. It is a question of being able to discuss and compile ideas for the good of our country, instead of anyone doing their only word in here. But, unfortunately, all this seems to be completely absent from your logic and your political education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u121	At first, what are you doing? Will you vote for it or will you vote against it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u122	We're on our guard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u123	You're on guard, good. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, today's debate is taking place one day after yesterday's vote in which the Greek Parliament overwhelmingly voted in favour of the government's proposal on the performance of the thirteenth pension to low pensioners and our fellow citizens who have been severely affected by the memorial policies and policies of austerity of the previous governments. I would like to remind everyone here that the thirteenth pension comes to restore also an injustice signed and agreed by the previous government, abolishing the CSCE. If for something we need to be accused of, it's because in negotiation we didn't succeed, despite the fact that we fought...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u125	When did this happen? Check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Stopatis, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u127	What's that thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u128	How much longer can we stand the lies?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Stamatis, I'm sorry, you have your parliamentary representative speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u130	Get a receipt that we cut off the ESS!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u131	Hey, that's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Stamatis, you are an old parliamentarian. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u133	You agreed to that. To blame us because we...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u134	Get a piece of paper to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u135	Minister, let me take care of this. Mr Stamatis, for the last time I say 'Mr. Stamatis'. When I'm in the Chair, there's no way the House would show the image it showed yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u136	Well, we didn't trade...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u137	Mr Dendias, who will take the floor later, will answer the objections raised by the New Democracy. Minister, I'm fixing the time and starting from the beginning. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u138	I would like to say, therefore, that one can blame us on this issue: we have failed, while we have strived to avoid this cut, but we are coming today, with a sense of responsibility and duty, and we are giving more than a lot of money to be cut out of it. This is the difference between the previous government and today. And, at last, we want to understand what yesterday's'residents' are'residents'? In the misfortune of the Greek people and pensioners, who spend difficult hours? What did you say yesterday? Because, if you were to say something other than 'yes' and 'no', what you said yesterday is 'absent' from this attempt to support our poor people and fellow citizens who have been badly affected in recent years because of the policies and agreements you have had. In fact, agreements that went beyond the parliamentary life of your governments. But it is indicative of yesterday's vote and debate, because we have come to the point of hearing complaints from Mr Venizelos, not so much about the government, which we have used to, but complaints about the European socialists, who are sympathetic to the government's efforts to bring the economy up and to distribute money fairly. That, admittedly, we weren't expecting. So now I think any questions are removed, because European socialists want and seek to have SYRIZA President and why at their meetings they call on the President of SYRIZA to exchange views. Now we get it. It doesn't have to be much more. When it is denounced by the Step of the House, by the former President of the PASOK, that European socialists are plundering into devastation policies by supporting the government's policy, eh, then we need nothing more to say. But what I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that yesterday from the committee's Step, a statement was made - a complaint about direct intervention by the President of the New Democracy in matters of justice concerning 'investment in Zakynthos'. And there was no reaction. I hope today, or even Monday, that some explanations will be given, because I stressed yesterday and stress today that if this investment has stopped, it has stopped because justice itself has intervened. The activation of the justice mechanism was not pursued solely by SYRIZA, but first and foremost by the Church and the Metropolis of Zakynthos and the Municipality of Zakynthos, which is not controlled by SYRIZA, but by the municipal authority had been elected by the flag of New Democracy. We are therefore waiting for an explanation of what Mr Mitsotakis said and especially of the fact that, while the economic prosecutor, Mr Bris, describes in his conclusion the most black colours of this procedure as a process of extreme corruption, the Chief of Staff and defends it from the Step of Parliament. We're waiting for explanations. Finally, I would like to say that it has not been for twenty-four hours since the bodies were heard and the Union of Judges and Prosecutors issued a communication, which details its positions - that is perfectly legitimate and, in my opinion, has to do - on the issue of the placement of lawyers in the commissions, as stated in the law. However, I am surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that it has been a week since Mr Mitsotakis, from the stage of the annual assembly of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, spoke about the hours of the judges and the limitation of the court holidays. And on this major issue which concerns the judges of the country, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors after a week has not yet issued a notice - can issue in due course. But everyone knows that the public positions of each one make up their credibility. No one is excluded from this. I would remind you of a report recently made by the Association of Judges and Prosecutors to the government on the placement of prosecutors, in which the Association of Prosecutors of Greece itself replied and put things in place. That is all about the credibility of everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk - and I shall mention introductory terms - of Article 56a, which we are voting on. I would like to say first of all that the government, contrary to what some people claim - not to describe them all, except in Ethiopia - did not bring this provision in an amendment, precisely because it did not want to surprise anyone. It has been taken by means of a provision which will be discussed in detail throughout the whole debate, both in the committees and in the House. I would like to say, therefore, that there are some provisions, which seem to be in the public interest, and they are, in fact, condemning it. And they're smuggling it in a way of suspicion and secret, and they seem to be protecting it. What do we have here? Here we have a proportional application, in a way that is legally inappropriate in any case, of Article 249 - if I remember correctly - of the Civil Code, which provides for the 20-year limitation in the field of public law. And I would like to tell you that this limitation is an extreme element of impunity rather than punishment. It has been mentioned by a special speaker earlier that if this provision is passed, there will be an acquittal. There will be no acquittal. What may be to some in the framework of the limitation is that there will be no apportionment. But acquittal to know that even if the charge was made, it was certain that there would be twenty years later, as well as not being able to manage the elements of this case. I stress this because we now have a recent decision by the Council of State, which is mentioned in the explanatory statement, which states that the limitation period must be reasonable. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be a 20-year limitation period, because then we are leading to absolute impunity even after drunkenness. In other words, a case which could have been cleaned up in five years, we leave it for twenty years because of the legislative framework and this case now produces impunity, and from the safest, some will be against the charging decision, as has happened many times to this day. I am sure that, after the decision of the Council of State, this path is now certain. That is why the government takes an initiative and says that this regime of interoperable and impunity must end and end today. We have asked all the parties in this House to vote in favour of this provision. Otherwise, I also told Parliament that if a competent and increased majority is not formed, the government has no reason to insist on these things. We say this because certificates of morality to the government and its members will not give anyone. We are all well known, ladies and gentlemen, both in Greek society and in local communities. So what we have said is what we are repeating. And I want to repeat here today what I said to the committee, that I have the authority, the oral powers of the President of the Court of Auditors and its assent to mention what I have mentioned to you today in the House. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as matters are concerned, which are dealt with in the bill and which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, I would like to say this: there is a debate in this House, which we have been accused of under the urgency procedure. I would like to say once again that the urgency procedure does not cut the parliamentary procedures either before the committees or before the House, they simply become very close to each other. And I would like to say that when we hear accusations from parties, which brought the Memorandum of Understanding under the urgency procedure, and as a result there are statements by the Ministers of the then government that it is not possible to read them, they cannot blame us for bringing these legislation in the urgency process, without any shortening of the discussion time and the number of meetings. It is therefore a necessary process and vote for these legislations and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. I shall refer to my own issues. I am starting with the Banking Code, because we are in a situation that needs and is necessary to reform both the Banking Code and the Administrative Procedure Code. You all realise that in the exceptional circumstances, which we are facing, measures are needed to resolve the cumulative problems of the bankruptcy procedure. I would therefore like to tell you that our first and main concern was that there should be a shortening of the deadlines of the bankruptcy procedure, so that for viable companies they can be quickly integrated into the rescue mechanism and when we say 'the rescue mechanism', we mean submitting a restructuring plan for these companies by the debtors within a few months. Secondly, we have abolished - all those procedures in the reorganization plan have already been abolished and are being summed up. Here, there are these provisions. We must not, however, leave it in the middle of the year, because even a company, which has the potential to escape bankruptcy, if this process has taken place for a long time, you understand that it will also lead to the destruction. For the other undertakings which are not considered viable, the bankruptcy procedure must be completed again at a rapid pace and among the measures that we have adopted is that the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court is replaced by the Judge-Rapporteur and it is envisaged that creditors should be reconvened if a reliable investor for the purchase of the company as a whole or a sector appears. So you realise that speeding up this process is something particularly important for the citizens who are active in the productive sector of the economy and because of the conditions we are all experiencing, they have serious problems. As far as the bankruptcy procedure is concerned, I would like to say that the process aimed at restoring the business is being reinforced and that is very important, because we do not leave our fellow citizens to God's mercy to deal with such problems. The procedure for special liquidation is out of the scope of the new bankruptcy code and the 'opening of bankruptcy' procedure, which was described - and you have heard it from the institutions - is a permanent wound, because it lasted a long time and in fact the entire bankruptcy procedure has been blocked since the first stage. In particular, I would like to stress - and this has been praised by the institutions who have come to this House - that debt relief, a second opportunity, the bankrupt who has been found not to have been completely bankrupt. He is given a second chance after two years to relaunch commercial activities and even to return to the rest of the requirements of creditors who were not satisfied with the bankruptcy procedure. This, ladies and gentlemen, I have not heard anyone welcome and no one mentions it. It is a very important provision that enables too many of our fellow citizens to find themselves in this economic vortex. Without going completely bankrupt, even reopening without the burdens of the previous situation, if they have been found to be acquainted with the whole process. Isn't that a positive provision of the bill? Ladies and gentlemen, as far as administrative justice is concerned, I would like to mention the following: there have been European Court of Justice judgments. It is therefore possible to reinstate a case before the Council of State, since there has been such a judgment by the European Court of Justice. We believe that such a provision is fully in line with the legal culture that governs both our country and Europe and is in the interests of our fellow citizens who have access to the European Court of Justice and who are entitled to it. The institution of the intra-judicial settlement of disputes shall be introduced. It is an institution that will speed up the process, carried out under the protection of judicial service. And the view expressed by the special speaker of the JRC that this institution will be constantly at the expense of the public or against them economically impossible is completely unfounded, unfounded and unfounded. This procedure is being done, I told you, under the protection of judicial service and no one can say that there is bad intentions and intents of injustice from the parties. It also makes it more rapid and pleasing to grant legal aid, which, for too many of our fellow people at this time, is almost luxury. We therefore recognise this difficulty and give the opportunity to have this aid and, indeed, to help to the extent of the circumstances and needs of each citizen. Also, the draft law makes it easier to suspend execution, but where there is a procedure, where the request for suspension is accepted, the case must be identified within six months and discussed, so that there are no delays and no one hiding behind a suspension decision. The institution of the Judge-Rapporteur is introduced. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has insisted on this institution, because this institution will speed up the procedures for setting up a dossier and all those omissions which, unfortunately, appear whenever a case is brought before the administrative court. Actions for damages in a category of cases to be dealt with are hereby repealed. This procedure will now be held presidential, as we lawyers are used to say, so that it can be immediately resolved again at the expense of the judicial presence. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that as far as the civil courts are concerned, the judicial record of the recognizing action is finally abolished, a measure that the previous government had adopted in Memorandum Laws and was a legal measure that was unrelenting and irrational. In addition, half of the judiciary in labour disputes is reduced. Because in the time of the crisis, we have aggregation of workers who have been first in the ward of this situation. And we must strengthen the worker - and not be discouraged - to turn to justice to claim his right. As far as administrative courts are concerned, tax and customs disputes are concerned, because you are accusing us of taxing us - from 50% to 20%, as you have anticipated in the past. And also, the paradox of appealing and opposition has now set a ceiling of EUR 3 000 instead of EUR 10,000, as today's Opposition had anticipated. The criminal courts are reducing both the paradox and the sue and the representation of political lawsuits. And at this point I would like to say that the paradox put forward with regard to deferrals and requests for exceptions is not just a collecting paradox to strengthen the FIFG and through it the institution of legal aid. And I would stress, ladies and gentlemen, that this money is directed at legal aid. It is not further means of condemning the rights of the party. Because here - you have all confessed - to certain procedural acts before the courts is abused. And we'll have to fight this image in a thousand ways. I think that for requests for exemption, which are too often abusive and insulting for judges who are intentionally made rather than for a procedure such as the law, and for a postponement which is submitted in a way that goes beyond any measure of the law in this particular case, we should do something to make provision for these things. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I repeat that this money is not a collecting measure, it will not be paid to the Treasury. Ladies and gentlemen - and not only by SYRIZA and the parties to the government, but also by other parties - since you say that there must be social sensitivity, you must welcome this measure, because it is being strengthened - as I have said - the institution of legal aid. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government considers that in this draft law in the area of justice, the provisions of the Banking Code and the Code of Administrative Procedure are making a brave effort to speed up justice, to introduce measures necessary for the economic and social life of the place, as well as for the proper functioning of the courts. We call on you to vote for them, and we believe that their vote in favour of a large number of parties and Members of Parliament also establishes the right of legislative initiative that we have taken. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We shall give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Teddy. The special speaker of the Independent Greeks will be followed, Mr. Kammenos. Mr Theocharopoulos will then be given the floor as Parliamentary spokesman for Democratic Partnership, and then we will start the list of speakers. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, for the debate in the first place. But, of course, as always, we have to do with a piece of legislation which is introduced, despite its huge volume, by the urgency procedure, incomprehensible from the contents for us. But we're going to the law itself, because that's what matters more. We are supposed to - the parliamentary representative and the rapporteurs, our diligent rapporteur, Mr Besiropoulos, has already been placed - we need to talk today about the principle of legislation. Could you tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what the principle of this legislation is? What should Members of Parliament talk about today? First of all, this piece of legislation includes amendments to the Banking Code, regulations that are remorseful, fragmented, but we will see them on Monday. It also includes measures to speed up and rationalise administrative proceedings with reductions in the competence of the Single Administrative Court of First Instance, and this is an extremely urgent matter. Includes issues of infringements and fees of legal aid, litigation fees and judicial fees. It shall include other provisions of competence of the Ministry of the General Secretariat of Corruption and provisions for the General Secretariat of Corruption. It includes provisions of the Ministry of Finance for the disclosure of taxable material and electronic transactions. It includes provisions relating to casinos. It includes tax provisions. What is the beginning of the legislation, Minister, for which I must reply today to the government? Who is she? How can it be recommended to the Ministry and Minister that too many pages of provision be made? How these things constitute a proper legislature, and even from the Ministry, whose Minister is the great sealer, i.e. the keeper of the correct expression of the institutions of the Hellenic Republic, and by attacking the great state's sealing of the attestation of the legality of the acts. What legality constitutes such a piece of legislation in this way before us and to what, ladies and gentlemen, does it not completely degrade, as the Government usually does, the legislative procedure and the Greek Parliament? I come, in any case, to what the Minister said earlier, and I must say in a sense that is not customary by the Minister for Justice. The Minister of Justice, Mr Minister, is accustomed - you may enter new demons - to have another look from the office to the Greek justice. First of all, you reiterated the lie over the tenth of the third pension. The aid is referred to as 'the thirteenth pension'. Why? In order to correspond to the other false, from Thessaloniki, by the Prime Minister, said, on the provision of the thirteenth pension. So we have to cover the one lie with a second lie. It is also called "excess of revenue" the overtaxation of Greek citizens. No apologies to the citizens who were exaggerated, no apologies to the bourgeoisie of the country, who are destroyed, and to the populace, who suffer. But, in order to be able to find a fig sheet against all of them, what are we going to do? We're going to blame the opposition. Always the New Democracy and its Chief Mr. Mitsotakis here have their honour. Whatever happens, it's the government, it's their fault. We have therefore abolished the CSCE. Really? Did we abolish the C.E.S.A.? Mr. Stamatis was raised earlier. The President was right, Mr. Stamatis was wrongly uprooted, but, you know, each of us in lies has a limit. Did we abolish the ESS, did the previous government abolish the ESS from 1-1-2017, did the previous government abolish it? The ministerial decisions, which will be signed for the abolition of the previous government, will be signed and implemented by them? What are you talking about? You will cut 430 million in 2017. That's the truth. Tell the truth to the Greek society, the Greek people. He knows her anyway. She's found her. Do you have the impression that by letters of the Katrugalo type, who first see what they get and then the letter tells them that they get more, will the government win anything? It doesn't mean lying. First of all, the lie does not honor the one who passes it. But society's been through another phase. These things don't help you. From there on, the New Democracy is again being invoked for the'residence'. What did you do, he says? Why'substances'? First of all, it is the right of the Opposition to vote 'yes', 'no' or 'no'. We must be aware of this, and the last one, to which we are going to apologize, is the government, this government, which is currently in the public record of something a little more than 10%. Secondly, do you want to explain to the Greek Delegation and not to the government, why did we vote'residents'? This is why the government has deceived us, which is why we voted 'at present'. When the Prime Minister came here, who reminded me of the provision of assistance in 2014 what he had intervened against then by Mr Samaras and against the then government, he, the same Prime Minister no longer revealed to the National Representation that he has neither understood nor informed the partners of the country and put the negotiation to a full risk that the Minister of Finance himself, Mr Tsakalotos, said that if it does not end on 5 December, it is a disaster. For governmental inconsistency, pheasyness, and all that is due to the Civic Opposition? Should we co-operate in what you are doing as hostages, ladies and gentlemen of the government? Are you serious? Oh, no! And that does not mean that we do not like the weak in Greece. And if you would like an example, I would remind you that for the social aid of the New Democracy you had voted 'no', not even 'no'. You have voted 'no' and you are coming now and you are judging us about 'the present' and, indeed, with an advocator's style. That was our view, that is what we voted on, so we want it to end - and if you like it! The Greek society will judge us. And look at some measurement to see how he judges you. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we must be informed. Any minister who thinks that every time, who goes up to Stepma, the way to show himself to the eyes of the Prime Minister or his government is to abus the Chief of Antipopulation, I would suggest that he does not. First of all, it's inappropriate. Second, it's wrong. Everyone in his boot. And I'm explaining: I tried to restrain the minister present last week, when he ironed the Chief of Resistance for the nine thousand releases. That was not the case with the Afghan, by the way, for which the Germans are abducting the Greek Government, because when he infringed the restrictive rules no warrant was issued. So the minister present was sanitized by Mr Mitsotakis, because he said nine thousand releases, and he was, of course, nine hundred ninety-seven. But he's coming today and he's resenting him for something else unbelievable. It says, interference in justice. I imagine Mr. Mitsotakis hasn't heard. If he had heard it, he would have wondered and said, "What does he say to me?" Do you know what a terrible intervention Mr. Mitsotakis is? I'll read it to you. Mr Mitsotakis says something, which I imagine everyone says in Greece: "The concept of investor in Greece has become a joke. See ΔΕΣΦΑ, "Ελληνικα ΧΡΥΣΣΟΣ", investments in Zakynthos, even the Greek, the largest and most important productive investment is being cancerd today - it says about the Greek - trapped in your own ideals. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is called an intervention to Greek justice. Should we forbid him from the point of view of ending? Not to speak in this country, so that every minister does not take anything he considers to be said, so that we can reach agreement here? Do you want to forbid us from talking? There was an attempt to control the broadcasting landscape and it failed. Do you now want the word forbidden in Opposition to be banned? But I don't understand again. The Chief of Representation expressed opinions last Saturday when I heard that it was a matter of court breaks, etc. The Union of Judges and Prosecutors is now indicted because it has not yet made a statement on the Chief of Representation. Appoint a couple of others because we're here and we've been found? Who else has not issued a statement that suits the government, forsake and order him to issue it immediately. In fact, I would suggest to the government, in order to be simpler, to write these announcements and send them in order to be issued in exactly the way they want them. Why not force everyone to say what we want, and those who do not want to forbid them from talking. That's very nice. This is democracy against that government. Very nice. Why not? In fact, a 10% government. Great, good! Seven percent, I guess, I don't know what else you're going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u141	Where did you get these?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u142	Where did we find it, I know. You'll find it when the time comes, I don't know. Let's go now, beyond others, on the point of limitation. I am not going to say much because my time is running out and I am not, as you know, inclined to ask the noble President always to give me an extension of time. Because the Rules of Procedure, you know, is not to violate him as much time as we like and speak twice, three times a year. In any case, I will just say two things, since the question of Article 56a has been raised, if I have understood it correctly, about limitations. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I admired the Minister present. It began to say that the abbreviation of the time of the limitation is essentially, indirectly, a way in which the ambiguity of the crimes is recorded. Objection on the other hand: if that is the case, if we want to reduce limitations - I am entirely in agreement with the general reduction in limitations - why not do so throughout the law? Why can we go back to 1999 in tax controls? Let us all agree here to reduce the limitation times of limitation on all issues. But the Minister did something else, which was completely uninstitutional. You know what he did? He came and said to the National Representation: "I was given oral authorisation by the President of the Court of Auditors to convey her views." Really, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u143	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u144	What did you say? Didn't you say that the President of the Court of Auditors authorized you to convey her view on the provision?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u145	Can I talk to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u146	You're welcome. Because it's serious, so please answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u147	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u148	I'll make it clear to you. I had a telephone call with the President of the Court of Auditors, she gave me her views on the limitations and all this procedure, and I asked her: 'Can you allow me to mention this...'?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u149	That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u150	That's what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u151	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u152	That is precisely what he said, and he said to me: 'I am sure, Mr Minister, to mention it'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u153	Do you know what's going on with the government? When you give them a chance, they're more exposed. The Minister reiterated, to rewrite anti-institutionalism. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your pardon, do you know how the highest courts are expressed on legislative change? Do you feel that we are in Botswana before World War II, where they are expressed by phone calls to the Minister of Justice and authorize him by phone or by living or otherwise to convey their opinion to plenary? A body of the Supreme Courts, called Plenary, Minister of Justice, have you ever heard of it? Have you heard that in order to give a decision to the Government and the National Delegation on a proposed legislative change there must be a plenary, which is to judge? Your discussions with the President of the Court of Auditors were of great interest to you, perhaps to her. It's none of our business. Could you please abstain from the inter-institutional interventions at the National Representation? Because what you did was out-of-date.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u154	Don't mind her if you don't want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u155	Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, for these things to be done? Is that possible? These aren't serious. All of this is added to a long list of lack of seriousness. Because the worst problem of this government, ladies and gentlemen, is not that it is a bad government. The worst problem of this government and what is tragic about the place is that it is a funny government - not to say anything worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and three educational sessions from the 7th Kavalas High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Committee of Inquiry into the legality of lending to political parties, as well as the owners of media companies from the banking institutions of the country, set up in accordance with Articles 144 et seq. of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and for which Parliament's plenary has set a deadline for submitting its findings by 19 December 2016, calls, on its unanimous decision, for an extension of its deadline for the submission of the findings by 16 January 2017. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u157	So the House unanimously agreed. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u159	For what exactly, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u160	I have the right to reply to what the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u161	Would you like to give some clarification, in other words, to Mr Tindemans?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u162	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u163	All right, he didn't deny the Bureau to give you the floor. The reason why you want me to give you the floor is to give you the floor. Mr. Cammene, do you agree that I give the floor to the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u164	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u165	Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u166	I don't think I'm gonna need more than two, three minutes. Not only soon, but quite calmly I will answer Mr. Dendia, who, in all his speech, said nothing about the provisions of the bill, as we expected to hear. I would like to remind the Members of the New Democracy how their government legislated and how our own government legislated. I will not go into critical legislation which came under the urgency procedure, ladies and gentlemen. I'll remind you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u167	Do you remember what you guys were doing here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u168	Now I'm talking. I would remind you that only at a Parliament sitting on summer holidays we had thirty amendments, which had come to Parliament to discuss. These unprecedented things cannot happen, nor can anyone even think about them. Do you remember by what process crucial legislations were introduced for the future of the country? They came under the urgency procedure, which the committee met in the morning and this afternoon in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u169	And you abolished them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u170	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u171	All right, Minister. You're short. Please do not interfere, ladies and gentlemen, so that the Minister can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u172	The interventions you are making are fundamental, and I am right about what I am saying. Because that's what you're not saying. With regard to the measures on the CSCE, which the honourable Member referred to, the measure was indeed taken by the Government. I didn't say that. In fact, I told you that you could blame us for the fact that in the renegotiation we did not achieve it, despite the fact that we had strived for no cutback. However, these were provided for in agreements which you had already signed. Don't distort what I'm saying. As far as the'residence' or 'abs' is concerned, first of all, we are not criticising you what you are voting on and what you are choosing. I told you that in this very important vote yesterday your party did not say 'at present', he said 'abs'. And he said "abs" because while the Greek people and especially those who deserve the money that Parliament decided yesterday to take, he waited for a consensus from all parties, even though some people do not believe it, you chose, as an exception, not to vote for such a philosophical measure, with the justifications you have put forward today. In any case, however, we neither want to squeeze you nor to forbid you. We barely want you to speak as much as possible. Because the more you speak, the more the citizens understand what your programme is, where you go and what you expect them. On the issue of releaseees, Mr Dende, I have explained to you during the debate when you put it on Saturday and said to you: First, it is about seven and a half thousand and not nine thousand. Nor did the President of the New Democracy speak of nine thousand, if I remember well. I told you at that time, however, that about six thousand would have been released not on the basis of legislative provisions adopted by SYRIZA, but on the basis of provisions that had been passed since 2005. In other words, I tell you this in another way today: if SYRIZA were not a government, again the large volume, about six thousand prisoners would have been released under normal conditions. That's what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u173	For a hundred and twenty-five people you said, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u174	And that is what I keep telling you, that the legislative initiatives taken by SYRIZA concern a very small number of minors and disabled people. The whole other tumor would have been released, even if there was no SYRIZA government. Finally, Mr Dendia, the speech I made on the subject of Mr Mitsotakis, who correctly read the Minutes, on investment in Zakynthos speaks. And I say that as a Member of Parliament, Zakynthos. Mr. Mitsotakis either does not know or he does not know and circumvents that there is an interim decision by the Monomele Court of First Instance of Zakynthos and a finding by the Financial Prosecutor Mr. Bree on this matter. And I told you, that the Chief of Staff of the House should come and defend the continuation of this so-called investment, when justice has been seized, stopped, and the Financial Prosecutor has asked for criminal prosecutions, this, Mr. Treasury, you who are a duly legal person, tell me what it is? I think that in matters of justice in particular, the government is dealing with the interests of justice, in the interests of society and never intervenes. And please too, and all parties will not intervene. With regard to the question you raised about the communication I have had with the President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Treasury, the Court of Auditors will meet and take its decisions in the way the law provides. There was nothing illegal or anything irregular. I did, in fact, give you the opinion of the President of the Court of Auditors and mentioned it at a time when I had her permission, and I asked for it. So there's nothing completely out-of-the-art. The courts will meet and decide both on the law and on the constitutionality of the laws and, as the government has said many times, on the decisions of all the courts, whether they are made by the Council of State or by the lower courts, will respect them and respect them completely, whether it agrees or not. That is what I think is very important in this process, the executive authority fully respects the judgments of the courts. And our government has proved this in a festive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much. We also thank the Minister for his clarifications. Unfortunately, I am also going to have to make a reference to yesterday's events and the vote in the House, in a mild way, because I think this is the way to the parliamentary process and to us, the people's parliamentary representatives. I believe that the'residence', 'abs' and 'abs' were, in fact, three 'abs'. In other words, it is not the abstention, but it is the abstention of reality, because when it is called or called "latic" or we try in the fillies and not just information to give the term "latic" to a government and to us that we are more young politicians, who have tried to bring incomes in parallel, to make a surplus of the surplus, to give it to the people who have been tortured - I will not lie to anyone about how they tortured and how they cut pensions, as a parliament, I mean, over the last five years - all this House had to do was have three hundred "exceed". There would be no excess - unless someone were ill - to say yes. From there on, it was a unique opportunity to show a consensus on a simple matter. What other opportunity could be given to give out the testimony, to the Greek people, who listen every day to coconut battles, but also to the lenders and to the institutions, who see and rejoice with “divides and reigns”? The "divides and reigns" are the most ancient tactic to win a war, a battle, either with weapons, communications, or with the intangible weapons we now have, of economic extortion. The picture we would give out, if we could consent to giving these 600 million together, with three hundred signatures in favour, would be a victory for the enemies of democracy and the enemies of Greece, which are two - three specific people in Europe who - I do not need to name them, we all know them - within twenty-four hours were also marginalized by the institutions themselves. They said: "You were raped, Mr. Ted, for coming out and saying that Greece's decision was unilateral and that the programme goes back. It was wrong to say and it was not your jurisdiction to decide whether to stop or freeze the decision of 5 December, the important decision to restructure the Greek debt, only a decision of the Euro Working Group. So what are you talking about?' We see that there is now a rush from some for political reasons - and especially Germany, in the interior - to lie to Greece. Unfortunately, we have lost, with the policy of the New Democracy, the River and the PASOK, the only chance to meet each other together with a signature for a just, simple request, which was a simple consensus, a simple consensus. It was nothing difficult and, unfortunately, we threw this opportunity away. We kicked the cart and we spilled it, unfortunately. Let's go to the bill now. I also said in my report yesterday that, in principle, we have passed the entire bill, as in fact the entire bill, but we have had a few comments. Today I have to make two - three observations and in cooperation with the colleagues of the Minister and Minister Mrs Papanatsiou, to find a solution. I will begin with the most important of all, which is the second opportunity we must give, on the basis of the directive - the establishment of the European Union, which I left in the Minutes and gave yesterday to the Minister and his group. Once Europe does not divide the company into natural or who is the legal person and covers them all horizontally, we cannot violate or go with any other law and say that the capital companies or anonymous companies or the heterogeneous companies or the EIAs cannot be included in the bankruptcy law we are voting on at the moment. That would be an unequal treatment, and I think we would also have legal problems. Furthermore, the evidence is unrelenting when it comes to bankruptcy in Greece - again without looking at anyone - over the last decade. I will submit to plenary the Minutes from the Greek Statistical Authority, which show us that in the last eleven years we have had an average of sixty-one bankruptcy decisions, of which nine hundred fourteen, 86% were accepted, and that they went ahead and declared four hundred and fifty-seven bankrupt. Take note, in support of what I said before, that we cannot exclude capital companies, the legal form of companies that entered the bankruptcy procedure in the last eleven years was 42% individual companies, 11% personal companies - both homogeneous and heterogeneous - and 47% - concerned capital companies. The problem here is this - and we will give the numbers - what does capital companies mean and what does it mean that these companies do not enter the bankruptcy code? I will not say all the years, in order to avoid misunderstanding and not to eat time, but the average, for the period 2004-2014, of the funds that went bankrupt was EUR 470 million - almost half a billion - and most important of all, it was a thousand two hundred sixty-five on average. So if we don't go to 50% of these - you want six hundred, seven hundred employees? - the funds, which are capital companies - probably more because of activity - which will be 300 million, which will have to go back into the economy and seven hundred jobs, give the second chance, to whom will we give it the second chance? Here are the many jobs, here is where we have to go together with European law, here is where we must not exclude anyone, and here we will show that we are looking after the market, taking care of the jobs, and the second opportunity goes for everyone horizontally, as Europe supports and so Europe must do. From there on, the issue arises, and there is also the issue of fraudulent bankruptcy. There are too many definitions here, especially in the legal world. In fraudulent bankruptcy, a acquaintance is found to be not bankrupt, but at the same time we say that those who went bankrupt are exempted. But the fraudulent way of our own criminal and justice system is someone who has issued checks, which, because of a crisis or any other reason, are judged to be fraudulent bankruptcy. Take the example of Marinopoulos, who we saved, because that's how we had to do. There were two thousand businesses that Marinopoulos owed. So either we're judging someone that's not bankrupt, so the checks he's extradited can't be judged by fraud, so he won't get into the process. Because we shoot our feet and it's like a snake eating its tail and there's no solution to the end. We will be involved in the courts and we will have to give a much simpler solution to this whole process. We have made a suggestion - and I will leave it in the Minutes of this House - on the two issues we have proposed - and I think that our colleagues in the SYRIZA are also in agreement and that the Minister will also take due note of these two issues. [[Mr Dimitrios Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the rest of the year, which I have left, we have to discuss the issues of the Ministry of Finance. In the Ministry of Finance, we have many important issues about plastic money. What we have raised yesterday and, as we discussed it with the Minister, I think there is no question of discussing today is Article 71(3). To say about the Minutes that payment institutions, electronic money institutions, as described in Article 71(3), are institutions that create and operate as payment systems, either themselves or for third parties, for example companies operating in Greece or those that make electronic payments that are vitual wallets like PayPal. These are yes, they apply, with the exception of credit institutions. Here was a misunderstanding, which was resolved. The article stays as it is. Banking institutions are excluded from agents and branches. He had just come to the end of the paragraph and he was misinterpreted. What is important to correct, which, as I have said yesterday, will create very many problems in the same article, paragraph 4, where entities in the field of gambling, betting and companies for the disposal of weapons, movables and others are not allowed to do so in POS and in the electronic systems that they have in their stores to make payments for third parties or accept payments of DECF, mobile telephony, an electronic payment system. I would remind you here that the explanatory statement says in (b) that it is forbidden to represent payment institutions and electronic money institutions from companies active in the field of betting and gambling and in the field of arms distribution and trading - take note, fellow Members - as they are high-risk areas for money laundering, money laundering and tax evasion. Is it possible to say now, while we have authorized four thousand six hundred ODP stores and five hundred, six hundred hunting gun companies, that the state has licensed and at the same time are companies that are making money laundering, tax evasion and doing illegal activities? I really do not understand that for that reason alone, because the justification is completely wrong. As I said, there are many activities for which someone could qualitatively say "I do not want anyone to enter, to have a place of visitability, because I judge as a state, as a government that it is illegal or that someone will become addicted to something". There are, however, much more branches - not to mention them now - for which one could say that anyone should not get addicted, whether to drink or to smoke or elsewhere. The purpose of the Government and the parallel revenues for 2017 is to have in the fund, in pugi, time revenues. There must be millions of points of sale, visitability everywhere, cross-checking information, electronically collected everywhere, cross-check all consumers, to build duty-free, and collect VAT so that the public can have at the fund, in puggy, time parallel revenues, in order to alleviate the world in 2018 in the budget that we will have such a time of year. So this article, paragraph 4 of Article 71, will not be supported. It should be removed or written otherwise. We cannot see any commercial business because it has any role. If we do not remove it, it means we are giving permission to someone who launders money and has an illegal activity in Greece. So we have to get them permission. We cannot authorize someone who says he can do illegal activity, that is to say he is doing legal, so that we can have revenue from elsewhere and illegally when he receives payments for an ECHO or I don't know what else. Then why is he doing it? We will not support that. It is our only disagreement in this bill. Everything else is extremely positive. We will give a very large solution and a great breath to the Greek economy and the General Secretariat of Public Income and the General Secretariat of Information Systems, so that we have a full analysis of all consumers' data in any way electronic way, whether it is a credit or debit card, whether it is an electronic transaction or a payment via the internet, or the electronic system of the bank and we have the traces of everyone, to monitor - in the good sense - all transactions, to be able to build the tax-free. I will make two final remarks and end before my time. As I said yesterday, in Article 69(1) we say that all businesses should be sent to the Secretariat-General of Information Systems at night, which will be sent to the TAXIS. However, the cash machines we currently have on the market do not all have the possibility of making automatic electronic data transmissions. Approximately 40% don't have that possibility and they have more than a hundred, ten thousand cash machines. What does that mean? That all these entrepreneurs, who have this machine, will be forced either by themselves at night - and I do not know if they have the cognitive object and internet at that time - from their home to send them to the General Secretariat's database - to fill out the information to close their account - so that they do not "esee" the fine from the public or go, until they change their cash or online system to their accountant. I said yesterday that it would be impossible for an accountant to respond. Imagine, especially in the summer that we have both the tours in the tourist accommodation and the catering, that a accountant has forty, fifty, sixty, 100 shops, which will not have the cash and should at night do forty, fifty, 100, two hundred - maybe more - records only for the Secretariat-General for TAXIS. That's gonna be impossible. So I suggested - and we should think about it - that we should give as soon as possible, in cooperation with the banks, with any Greek industry, voucher, to finance somehow, target and motivate everyone to change the machines and make this process automatically, because we will probably have to fine someone who does not have the responsibility or who has the time to give the data. Finally, we need to make a few things clear. These days - and yesterday - I received very many questions from a great many people, which I will put to the Minister. Minister, with all due respect, we will have to find a solution. Right now, we're saying we're building the tax-free. The tax-free is built in a certain way. People don't know, and I don't understand how when I put my card, I'll watch my charges, if I get to 10%, to 15%, to 20% of my income, if I keep the card or if I don't keep the card. If I hold the card, I go back to paperwork. Okay, but let's know. In other words, one, who has a stable income of EUR 15 000 and has to collect evidence of EUR 1,500 from where he can build a tax-free, should have the document of the POS or cash machine along with proof of purchase of a product or service, keep them in a file and once the 1,500 euro has arrived to say 'I closed, I'm going for next year'. If this is not the case - and I say again that it is a problem for accountants and for natural persons, for citizens - and it is done electronically, we will have to find the way in which you will be informed, 'you have reached your tax-free'. We need to find a way to make it easier, because we say that since 1 January we all have to have cash machines, with a fine if they do not, and with information on the glass, at the door that, "we accept up to EUR 500 and from there all through electronic transaction." We're building the tax-free, but we've got to get a circular out to get to the tax-payers, to the employees, to the colleagues who know this job better than me, and to the citizens in particular, how the tax-free is to be built. Will he collect the evidence or not? Will TAXIS inform them of an e-mail or not? Will the bank inform them or not? The banks don't know much. We should resolve this issue, so that we can start the whole process properly in 2017, so that we can see the print on the fund, so that every citizen has the incentive to charge his card electronically, save the tax evasion, collect the VAT - from which we lose 6 billion a year - but also to facilitate the work of the citizen, his everyday life, not to add another burden to him, which can bring him a fine or he can judge him illegal, while he is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u177	We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Incorporation, Mr Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, firstly because I am going to refer to what the Minister, Mr Kontonis, said earlier in his speech, would prefer his colleagues to tell him to come to plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, if we had to put a title on those days, he could have been "in the same spectators work". The truth is that the institutions have ideological obsessions. However, Mr Tsipras does everything he does not only to fuel them, but also to rekindle them, with ambiguity, with inconsistency between words and actions. We have repeatedly said that we need a clear strategy, integrated into an overall framework and progressive reforms at all levels. We heard the Minister of Justice in his speech again referring to the thirteenth pension for pensioners, while many of the SYRIZA Members said yesterday, "It is not a third pension, we have never said so, nor have the Prime Minister." Decide! We know exactly what you've done. We know exactly what you're doing. We have clearly said that the additional amount of the objective of the primary surplus can be allocated to social, development and investment measures, for unemployed and retired, but with a plan, without populism and lies. This is nothing but a small aid to the low-pensionists, who are in danger of losing because of Mr Siomple and Mr Tsipras, because of Mr Siomple's ideological obsession and Mr Tsipras' ineffective negotiation. That's the reality. However, we have also heard the Minister for Justice talking about overruns of revenue in relation to the primary surplus. It was on the line of the Prime Minister who, as we have just heard, made statements before entering the meeting with Mrs Merkel, said: 'I will inform Mrs Merkel of the over-return of revenues'. Really? Will it inform the House of the over-return of revenues and will it not inform either of unemployment or of how the primary surplus money came out? Is it not going to inform her that they came out of tax policies and that taxes are at such a level that the Greek economy can't afford them? Has this amount of primary surplus come out of any development policy? You have gone to the other end, colleagues of SYRIZA. Where you did not accept to pass from deficits to surplus budgets, as we said you were necessary, go to the other end and want primary surpluses impossible. In fact, you are pleased and say that it is your success to get these primary tax surpluses. That policy doesn't work. Nor does the new 2017 budget, with 2.5 billion new measures and taxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u179	Where do we get them from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u180	And because his dear colleague, SYRIZA, asks, "From where to get them?", why do you have no other policy in your mind beyond tax policy, to tell you: from a development policy, structural reforms in all areas. Of course, fight, dear colleague, finally smuggling fuel. Mr. Alexiadis came and said we lose 1.5 billion and then Mr. Nikoloudis said 2 billion more. Ministers came and said those amounts. Ministers have left, fuel smuggling is here, you have not received any revenue and controls have also been reduced. That is the ineffectiveness of your policy. There, however, where the Minister of Justice in his speech really surprised us, it was when he considered that European socialists have a more positive attitude to him and his Government in relation to the Democratic Incorporation, which is part of the European Socialists and Democrats' group. We did not really expect that, ladies and gentlemen. You said 'Olandreou'. You blame the European socialists, social democracy - and you blame them even today - for a number of things. You play it outwardly in everything, radical left. Select, not to say any more to the Central Committee of SYRIZA, but to the Plenary Assembly and others abroad. Let us inform you that, of course, the European socialists are supporting the country. The country supports. The country was supported, when your own negotiation led to a possible exit from the Eurozone, with the referendum and all that. At the same time, the European Social Democrats have said that they will not allow this. Now, again, in the ideological obsessions of Shoeble, they said that they cannot pass. Essentially what we are doing abroad, along with the European Social Democrats, is to try to overthrow the negative effects of your own policy, which bring the country to a dead end. That's the reality. Of course, the Minister has mentioned - and I shall say hereafter - 'When we hear, he says, accusations from the other parties with responsibility for the form of urgency, no one can talk about the form of urgency and urgency. We can bring them, as we want - urgently, urgently - to do what we want in plenary because there have once been some practices.' First, I don't know who he was saying it to at the time. He was probably telling Mr. Papagelopoulos sitting next to him and referring to the old practices of the New Democracy, 2004-2009. You may have overthrown that logic and at last you will also talk about the responsibilities of that period, of the period of government of Kostas Karamanlis for the country that raised the deficits. But, look, don't you see how you've reached things in a situation that isn't of the right legalization? What happens to unrelated bills has never happened, for example in the emergency or sanctions bills. If every time you say what you have to say is that some have done the same thing and if you think that the Greek people will reward this attitude, I will say to you "Continue". So we are in the same work of viewers and in the legislature today. Of course, it is another draft law that comes under the urgency procedure, with no reason why it could have been here for a long time and had been debated constructively. It is another draft law which, while based on its objections, is self-sufficient. It is understood, therefore, that different legislations are incorporated specifically in the provisions of the Ministry of Justice. The same applies to the following parties, which include a number of heirous provisions, such as the provisions on combating tax evasion, in which there is no result from governance for two years now and, of course, the promotion of electronic transactions, which we have said we are seeking. However, the question is what we are doing here. With regard to the Banking Code, its extensive changes and its overall modernisation are required by technological and socio-economic developments. The proposed provisions could in principle be regarded as positive, even if an in-depth study and discussion had been carried out on the real possibilities for their implementation, i.e. the possibilities for supporting them. However, there seems to be no guarantee of this support. In this matter, there's no rush, there's no sloppiness. In addition, the business world is still waiting to see the government's intentions on the major issue of red business loans, which are directly linked to bankruptcy, as is the unsuccessful business account, for which we are tabling an amendment today. We are tabling an amendment which we tell you to claim in the negotiations that it is not appropriate because it is a fair request from entrepreneurs at the moment. Of course, the amendment is comprehensive, realistic and requires effective negotiation. You don't make an effective negotiation, and we keep getting to the deadlocks. As regards the Insolvency Administrator’s Register, it should have been applied from 1-1-2016. We're still waiting for it. What do the Ministers responsible do for almost two years now in this direction? Nothing. If the President-in-Office had moved forward in time, there would have been no need for transitional provisions and there would have been no doubt about the transparency of this register, which should under no circumstances be a closed club with opaque entry procedures. Once again the government seems to have a strong tendency for selfgovernment. As far as the provisions amending the cost of the proceedings are concerned, consideration is needed and reflection, because the paradoxes are not reduced in all cases. This was demonstrated by the special rapporteur for the Democratic Association and by the committees, Mr Koutsoukos. There is concern here. In some cases paradoxes are being increased and new, horizontal and non-criteria are being adopted. In other words, obstacles to the exercise of judicial protection are being added, and the right to access to justice for the weaker economic strata is being abused by SYRIZA, which was also supported by the SYRIZA as an Opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, you may think that high paradoxes will prevent Greek bicommunism. But it's myth. The overloading of the courts is due to the lack of human resources and the lack of computerisation and the fact that the Greek State does not listen, i.e. it does not have effective ombudsmen to resolve the differences with the citizens, so that the courts are filled with appeals against the state. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall use my dentistry as well. As regards the provisions of the Ministry of Finance, these are of paramount importance for electronic transactions and the voluntary disclosure of taxable material in the past years. These are announcements that, while we are listening to them for over a year, they now come as urgent and self-sufficient, because they remain very shaky. You note that electronic transactions only concern employees and pensioners with tax. What about the others? We have asked you on several occasions. The rest of the people who are small and medium-sized professionals are those who have income under tax, people who have no income, who are unemployed, the non-active population, who are obviously spending, but at the limits of their capabilities, have any risk of using the electronic transaction from this piece of legislation? In addition, for the success of the project an integrated and unified system of incentives and counter-incentives would also be needed, of course, along with the training of the consumer public needed to change attitudes and cultures. But there is also a concern that, mutatis mutandis, there is a failure to combat the smuggling of fuel, where - I have already said - while, in the first place, the agencies had said 'yes' in cash machines, they had not been linked to 'TAXIS'. They're still not some connected ones. However, the biggest problem is that the input-output system is not being used for no reason. There is no argument until now, two years, in the House. We only have promises. Two years are not exploiting the ready input-output system. According to your own government, we are losing more than EUR 1.5 billion a year. What's gonna happen? They're going to be lost, so they're going to be taxed? I also wonder, in relation to the bill, why there is no provision for specific and exceptions, which are also referred to in future ministerial decisions. We have tabled an amendment to this issue and, in the case of the exclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises - for their care - on matters relating to the use of plastic money, because, as we have explained, there are serious problems. They've made a document, they've protested. At least in these categories, in any case, we should show - as a Parliament I mean, as a plenary I mean - the social sensitivity that it needs. As far as the provisions on undeclared income are concerned, we are positive. However, we believe that the system will not work for many reasons, including the lack of incentives, the lack of an appropriate political and economic framework, the lack of stability of the tax system. These are central issues. We cannot go with a tax system, with dozens of circulars, which come almost every day. This procedure is not progressing in this way. They are also favoured only those who have already been targeted by the tax authorities, who will come on their own. So the question arises as to whether they were the target. The rest of us don't care! It is the wrong target, which will obviously bring the opposite results. Finally, you must tackle tax evasion and tax evasion and the major issue of the bank's lack of liquidity, because it is a major issue for the Greek economy. Speaking of the liquidity of the banks, I would say that today we have had the Bank of Greece's mid-term report on monetary policy publicly. Because it still hasn't come out, I hear various positive comments from Members of the government majority, because it says there may be growth in 2017 and predicts 2.5% and 3% for 2018 and 2019, I tell you that you should see the interim report before commenting on it, because you would be surprised. These forecasts are therefore based on some assumptions that they will be made in the coming years. It says, therefore, that the conditions are as follows: 'To resolve bureaucratic obstacles and eliminate local and other interests which hinder investment'. The opposite is true. No bureaucracy is being reduced in this period of time. 'To speed up privatisation'. Not to mention what you have done all this time in this particular matter and how much - backwards. 'Take up for long-term unemployment'. Today, the Minister for Labour said youth unemployment reached 50% and there are a hundred and twenty-five thousand employees in our country with a wage below 100 euros a month. He called it what? Is the Minister of Labour aware abroad? Solutions must be made on these matters, not as a third observer. Of course, it must respond effectively to the irrational demands of creditors to remove the restriction of collective redundancies, for these will be a burden on employment relations in our country. The Bank of Greece's report also says: a condition is to address the issue of non-performing loans. Let me not say that in this context you have done absolutely nothing. It also says that we need to improve the mix of fiscal policy, because increased taxes have negative consequences. But how will it be improved by you once you bring a budget of 2.5 billion new measures, 95% of which are taxes? You're doing exactly the opposite! Do what will bring about failure to achieve growth over the next few years. In any case, we should agree on something. We are not interested in 'employable' growth, but sustainable growth with job creation. As far as the primary surpluses are concerned - because you were not here, Minister - which will also come from the revenue surplus - to which you and the Prime Minister have referred, but only today, you cannot change positions from one day to the next - the primary surplus of tax policies cannot come. It is not what we are interested in as society and as an economy. We are interested in coming from development policies, from real development in the country, which will create surpluses. Of course, the interim report states that there should also be consultation and a consensus between the social and political forces on all of this. We have been struggling for a long time with national understanding. We have also demonstrated this at the National Broadcasting Council. But we're struggling with it every day. Unfortunately, however, SYRIZA and New Democracy have learned in an artificial polarization, a caricature of bipartisanism, which is far from the needs of the time today, which leads us to a state of vicious circle, recession and unemployment. So we can't get out of the crisis. Of course, it says in the report that there should be lower primary surpluses than 3.5% after 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you must finish. I would remind you that you have exhausted both your denology and your "eat" time and your tritology, so you will not have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u182	I shall conclude, Mr President. So the primary surpluses are less than 2%. You signed the Eurogroup 3.5% over the medium term and after 2018. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the absence of a comprehensive plan itself leads to this situation. We are tired of seeing the same work, we are tired of being spectators of this situation and listening to "All of us do the same". That's not the case. This leads to anti-political forces. Anyone who invests and bets only on the mistakes of the former, never becomes a leader. That is why, Mr Tsipras, anyone who only invests in the mistakes of the former, is 'former Prime Minister'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u184	What exactly do you want now, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Theocharopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u186	Minister, to start talking, you should get permission from the Bureau. Do not address Mr. Theocharopoulos. This is where you're going!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u187	I'm talking to you, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u188	Why are you asking to intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u189	A question was raised by Mr Theocharopoulos about the fact that the process of drafting the Presidential Decree, concerning the insolvency administrator, has not been completed. Mr. Theoharopoulos, if I understand correctly, that's what you said. So I want to give you a briefing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u190	So, is that enough for you a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u191	Fifteen seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u192	If the process had been made faster, the presidential decree would not have needed so many transitional provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u193	However, I would like to inform you - I told the committee yesterday, where Mr Koutsoukos was - that the Presidential Decree was processed by the Council of State. This processing has been completed and has already been transmitted by the Ministry of Justice to the Office for publication in the Official Journal of the Government. So this issue has been closed definitively in terms of legislation and legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u194	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. At this point, I would like to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy 'Sustainable Development'. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Fotini Vakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the main body of my speech, which deals with the bill we are discussing, I cannot resist temptation and do not comment on what I have heard before. This is because there have been many great and great sounds from the Anti-Population, which are indicative of its selective memory and sensitivity. So, let's start with all these accusations of surpluses, which you obviously have invoked, to justify - the Civic Opposition - the unjustified ones, that is that you declared a resounding'retired' in yesterday's vote on the aid, the thirteenth pension, to the pensioners. So let us tell you that this famous excess of the surplus may not typically have been validated by ELSTAT, but has been confirmed by the income tax codes and, indeed, primary incomes, which were such as to be exceeded even in a hypothetical scenario in which even EUR 1 would not be collected by the end of the year. There has been overrun of what we call the non-peripheral measures, i.e. the measures that generate revenue from tax evasion, tax evasion, smuggling of fuels and tobacco, among other things. Why, look, the surplus comes from society and returns to it. It belongs to society and with a bias towards the socially indifferent and helpless. Excess is being created. What can we do? Even in such unfavourable, difficult, distressing conditions, because it has come to an end to a policy of seashore, air, buttons, "menu", eye closure on lists and high-scale tax evasion. However, you, ladies and gentlemen, of the Anti-Population Officer and your extremities, have chosen, once again, not to vote for the thirteenth pension in the most exhausted and incomprehensible part of Greek society. It is part of your policy, after all, a policy of irreversible neoliberalism, which is scandalously favoured by an oligarchy of riches that have been ruthless and corrupt, which has been functioning for many years against the harm of the Greek people and living work. But there's something else that you want to show both to Mr. Shoeble and to the IMF. After all, your Vice-President told us that you will be voting immediately on all the liberal reforms that Shoeble and the troika and so many others have not asked for. The President of your resignation has described, not least, unilateral actions that undermine the evaluation of this aid. Eventually, what is this truth agreement? You give me the feeling that the truth agreement is a price contract with the IMF and Germany regarding the application of the most cruel, inhumane austerity and as your works and days prove to be until 2014. It is courageous not to vote for pensioners to be relieved when, in the pre-dated debate on insurance, your President said that the zero-duty clause is a one-way one, exactly what Tomsen proposes, a purely proportional system based only on contributions and without the redistributive nature of the state pension subsidy, through the costs of the state budget. Of course, this model can lead to the zeroing of pensions and the abolition of the state-guaranteed pension. You are being cut off for the non-implementation of the short-term until January, when you yourself told us that these measures were minor, since they will apply from 2040. Are these important measures, or are they not? You are now cutting off the debt when you were giving certificates of viability and until May you told us from the Step forward of this House that it is not the most important issue. The only unsustainable debt to you seems to be the debt of your party and your outstanding loans. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today brings the economy back into the way of institutional reforms in the field of justice as a front. You know, it's not an evaluatively neutral bill that aims solely at increasing the revenues of the Greek state in times of trouble. The resumption of the economy is linked to an increase in revenue through the fight against tax evasion and the return of undeclared incomes, because the crisis hid under the mattresses. And the “appropriate” or a corrupt oligarchy of wealth that was paralyzing against the Greek people was fleeing abroad or in tax havens or systematically concealing its atrocities with political power. Furthermore, there was a legislative framework that underwent such behaviour, which the people paid very much. The provisions on voluntary disclosure of undeclared incomes of the past years are therefore expected to contribute to a significant increase in public revenue, without rewarding the infringing behaviour, nor canceling the essence of the arrangements through an extermination tax. Depending on the amount of income revealed and the stage at which tax control is situated each time a fair framework of taxation is imposed. The amount of the tax is determined by the percentage of the main tax on undeclared income, as well as by an additional tax from 8% to 30%, depending on the stage of the audit process, at the time of voluntary disclosure of income. The main motive is also the granting of amnesty criminals for the offence of tax evasion to those who have voluntarily revealed undeclared incomes. Similarly, the expansion of the use of plastic money and the possibility of tax-free building through it is not only a means of tax justice, but also a tool to strengthen social budgets in order to support those who are most in need. The provisions on occasional workers, which are part of the tax on employees and pensioners, and the arrangements for the distribution economy, for the short-term rental of real estate, are also important. As I said, it is not evaluatively neutral in this bill, but it is relied upon by the philosophy of non-target measures. No one suffers from any fetishism of the surplus. The surplus, as I said before, comes from society and returns to it. Only he goes to support the weak and does not become air, sea-loving, offshore and so on, something that has been pointing at the everyday life of this society for many years. It is, however, also structured in a number of progressive principles and in matters of justice, in relation to the Banking Code and amendments. It is therefore worth stressing some positive rules on the bankruptcy code, which relate to the possibility of a second chance to debtors who have been bankrupt and who now have the right to a new principle, a fresh start, as usual called, in order to reintegrate into economic activity. Because there were the dilemmas who were bankrupt and, of course, we had the acidity of a bankrupt and bankrupt business of a diaphragm businessman who was fleeing the money to the outer paradises and sending the workers to hell of unemployment and social margins. But there are also entrepreneurs who have actually been bankrupt, who, because of the crisis and not only have lost their property, their price, their reputation, their dignity and who are incomprehensible to be condemned to the social margin and deserve a second chance. The second package of arrangements for the competence of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, however, concerns something else, the framework for speeding up the administration of justice in the field of administrative proceedings. Acceleration of trial throughout the law is about dealing with a time-consciousness of our right system and culture, which is the irrational delay in the administration of justice to all types of trial. Late which in many cases means vehement and in any case economic bleeding, man-hours of work and extermination of the financially weaker. The prosperous and economically powerful have the potential and the "sides", if you like, for a long judicial struggle, which will exhaust the weakest opposing party. In this sense, it would be incomprehensible I think every objection and objection to our efforts to speed up administrative proceedings. A number of paradoxes are also being reduced in order to strengthen the ability of citizens to address justice, while at the same time improving proportionality in the charges relating to recourse to justice in order to prevent abusive practices. At this point I would like to refer in particular to Article 33 of this bill, which abolishes the obligation to pay a judicial notice on recognizing actions. Therefore, this article abolishes the so-called "demand", including for victims or relatives of the occupation forces of World War II, if they choose to file a claim for damages. The contribution of the committee responsible for German debts to this development was decisive and we should all recognise that. Ladies and gentlemen, we must honour our dead, the victims of Nazi atrocities, but we must honour our historical memory as well and not forget, because the people without historical memory are a people without a future. I'm finishing up with a comment and I'm going back to my starting point. I urge all colleagues to vote in favour of this bill. It is a very important bill, it is an intersection for both justice and the relaunch of the economy. I am truly sorry that the Qualifying Opposition yesterday demonstrated once again that it is the willing hand of the hardest phrase of lenders. However, other political forces have unfortunately demonstrated this extreme person, leaving the Chamber, so that they do not vote for the aid to the low pensioners. And can I tell you a few comrades from Officer Opposition? Some of your MPs can today be ashamed and unable to explain in their own districts why they smashed their head once more. I fear, however, that some of you will continue unresponsively to shout out: 'the Shoeble Bastard'. You look forward to, and this is your truth agreement, coming to power again, asking the lenders to destabilise the government and you commit to paying as a bill for your chair demolition of pensions. That's what you've done all the years. You've shown all these years who you've been with. As you were committed to giving the money back to the canals, so today you are kissing the hands of the lenders by giving credentials to the most extreme austerity. The government has been able all this time to create a strong front in support of the Greek people's struggle throughout Europe. We're not alone. The efforts of the Greek people and the economy and refugees have created a strong progressive front that wants to overthrow dogmatic austerity and fundamentalism of the markets, bankers and technocrats, and this struggle will continue. Whether you like it or not, Greece will stop being the experiment of austerity. And if some people think that, being slave to the extremes of Europe, they will sit on the chairs of power are very laughable. The Greek people's response will once again be a dissatisfaction. It is certain that no matter how much you give your credentials to the lenders, businessmen and canalarchs, the Greek society has completely deleted you from its conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. We will start with the list of speakers, with Mr Triantafylides first spoken by SYRIZA. Another speaker will be followed and we will be taking a parliamentary representative every two speakers. So Mr Triantafylides begins, then Mr Athanasios from New Democracy and immediately thereafter the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, was right when he said that the figures always tell the truth. I enter this temptation, although his resume, that unfamiliar memory "zero plus zero is fourteen" refers elsewhere and not to the fact that the numbers are always right. I sincerely invited the Step by discussing the previous bill of the Goddess Fotio not to steal the smile of the Greek people and not to be persecuted constantly by a misery of misery and grumpy. Don't steal the smile of the Greek people! The government does not bring the bill, 'you're late, you're hiding something'. The government brings it, 'why you're rushing, why you're bringing it.' There's no limit. See you later and in detail, because the record is avenged, Mr. Athanasios. I have in front of me something that the former Deputy Minister of Finance had submitted in the Minutes, Mr.Tryphoon Alexiadis, which is why I am saying the record is avenged - elements of tax evasion and smuggling. We are then on what Fotini Vaki said a moment ago. We tell you and we tell you again, you're there. You go to the windows and say 'hemogile', 'from tax policy'. We're telling you it's from non-measurable measures and revenues. That is where a financial area is being created. That money you can determine where you're gonna put it, where you're gonna use it. This is the EUR 617 million that emerged and I will say in particular, because the numbers are avenged: From the case data on the Lagard list in 2014, 28 cases were closed. In 2015, 96 cases were closed. By August 2016, the whole of the cases shall be 177. There are still four months left, as they are completed. Recovered revenues were EUR 225 million. We're keeping the one size. I haven't come up with anything. I'm not wicked. I'm honest. I'm not just talking about certain people. I am talking about assigned revenue and revenue received. Hold that. Let's go to the next page of the information Alexiadis submitted in August, to see where he's from. We're telling you it's from the smuggling hunt, it's from the lists. You there! According to the foreign remittance case data, the cases completed up to 2015 are 584. Within 2016 and August are 50 other cases. Total EUR 308,874.667. They ask "Where did you come from, where did you get these and give them to the world?" If we did not give them, why do you not give them? You analgesics!' I continue with some indicative information from the large-poor taxpayers control centre. These are only 1-1-2016 until 31-8-2016. The controls of offshore companies were 24. Checks on remittances 127. Controls of natural persons of great wealth were 22. The whole of the cases was 173. Total EUR 393,955,608. Do you note to get the sum? Note, that's good. Let's go to tobacco now. In 2014 the number of checks was 11,000. 'You have reduced the controls' he said - I think - the wicked Mr Brutsis. But he did not say how much money was collected. In 2014, eleven thousand seven hundred fifty-four. Of course, EUR 59 million. In 2015, six thousand the number of checks, the revenues were EUR 147.664.108. The first nine months of 2016 we had 279,403.859 euros. Only one of them is confirmed, and then it is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance to say imputed and collected. Only the confirmed ones are 1,359,000 euros. I conclude by saying: 'Don't steal the smile of the people.' One breath was, which was entitled after seven years of commemorative cannibalism. I come to Chief Kyriakos from the lenders' party. He said on September 17 and 18, 2016, the lenders' party, from Thessaloniki for electronic transactions: "Greece today is urago in electronic transactions". Yeah? And who's to blame for that? SYRIZA who ruled forty years did not apply the plastic money to e-commerce, says, "Cyriakos Chief" of the lenders' party. Its use, however, proved to reduce tax evasion and paramilitary rates and increase public revenues. Where can you make plastic money? And then what? If they'd start dating evil flowers, all the buddies that do forgery, that's on the Lagard list, on the Borgians list, we didn't want to take it? Then how do we get plastic money? He wants black. Underneath the money. And it's over. He's criticizing too. Um, it doesn't make self-criticism, that it's Uragua in plastic money, it also criticizes SYRIZA who has been ruling for fifty years! He says: "The government's delay in implementing this self-evident policy - e-commerce - gives rise to reasonable questions about its true intention to limit tax evasion". He asks why Tsirkas, Sevastakis, Iglezi, Stoyannides, The Guardian, Gara, hide and do not apply electronic transactions, says Mitsotakis to the suspected neo-democrat from Thessaloniki. The government's delay gives rise to reasonable questions! He is not apologies for the forty years that the whole world operates with the Swedish model. I have been here today to talk about this, because I have been struggling with my companions for two years, and I call 'the universal application of the POs'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you would be kind, Mr President, I would have liked two more minutes. I'm not gonna use my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u198	There is no dentistry in the parliamentarians. Look, you've got one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u199	I'm closing, Mr. President. Thank you. Then I will only make one proposal for what you say. A label for Article 60(2). Nobody said it. Minister, let us say that the political people, the former and the present, are excluded from the possibility of confessing that they had funds abroad. Let's say that. Former Prime Ministers, current Prime Ministers, former Members of Parliament, current MEPs and MEPs. Article 60(2) excludes political persons. In other words, political people have an obligation, they will not benefit from the favourable arrangements. Yes, because it falls indiscriminately upon brave, responsible, guilty, etc. For Article 68, three points. Watch out for the expenses. The Minister does well and puts the costs, TEKO, banks, housing loans, etc., where there is no possibility of no proof being cut, of keeping the rents and the public, but on the other hand, do not pass the 5,000 euro tax-free side. There is a negotiation with the institutions. Don't cross the story of tax reduction. There needs to be an ideal balance here - a composition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u200	And close, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u201	I shall close with my proposal, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance. Article 68(1) lays down, in essence, the minimum penalty. I would like there to be an Article 68(2) where we determine the reward for the maximum. So, we're saying if the costs that you passed through the card are less than 10% to 20%, you'll have a 22% penalty. I would like us to have an extra incentive - and Katerina Papanatsiou is not here - that is, if a citizen exceeds 70% or more of his purchases by means of a card, for example, to return 50% of the VAT. In other words, with an income of EUR 20,000, if it has made EUR 14 000 through plastic money with an average VAT of 15%, it gives EUR 2.100. The 1.050 euro to return it to him. That is all, of course, given that the bank supply of less than 0.5% will fall as the Community directive lays down. And that is what I am closing down, Mr President, and thank you. The banks have to pay too. Here with the use of plastic money they will sink into money, something 0.1%, 0,2% is millions of euros. I was telling you,'put your hands on the banks'. Can't be the bank with 2% and 3% to be a partner in the manaves, the butcher, the grocery store. The Community directive clearly sets a limit of 0.5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u202	Please, finish it. You've spoken more than ten minutes. I've shown you enough kindness.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, thank you. That is the only point I'm going to make. We need to create extra motives. I think returning half the VAT for someone who has made use of the card of over 70% is a strong incentive. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u204	Mr Athanasios from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister spoke twenty-five minutes out of the eighteen which were most entitled to it, except for the bill, but also for other colleagues, such as the parliamentary representative, Mrs Vaki. And I have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Athanasios, may I interrupt you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u207	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u208	I have to interrupt you for what you just said. The Minister - not the one in question -, as usual and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, has in his prology eighteen minutes, nine minutes of denology, five more minutes and three more minutes. So he deserves this time. I'm making an explanation on the occasion of your report. Continue and keep the time I interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u209	No, Mr President, I may have been misunderstood. The meaning wasn't because it took more time, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u210	I'm not blaming you. I just made it clear because people listen to us who don't know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u211	...to where the time was consumed. Mr Minister, you said about the interventions and in particular of the President of the New Democracy in relation to an investment in your homeland. If you read all the President's position carefully, which was a position that starts from his agony and his concern about investment, which must be encouraged to come to Greece, you will see that what New Democracy believes - and New Democracy believes - is that the development of the country will also come from investment. So his agony is not to cancel investments. It does not mean that he has intervened in the outstanding criminal case, which you have said and which would be incomprehensible. However, it does not appear from anywhere that he made any such intervention in that case, nor did he give any directive or wish to the officials of Zakynthos how to deal with a case. Obviously, you are exemplified by your own contributions, I do not mean personal, I mean your party and your predecessors on various issues, but also by the Prime Minister himself. So I would remind you of your contributions to the Greek, a great investment. I would remind you of the intervention on the Council of State by the Prime Minister when the case of television licences was pending and, of course, the disciplinary councils, which took place in the Argentine Ice with the appeals against the former Minister's decisions, who has the right to appeal....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u212	Not yours, your predecessor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u213	But it's his right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u214	Yes, I did. Don't interrupt me, we'll waste time and we've got a lot of issues. This intervention was not an institutional issue, but a verbal dispute and position of the Prosecutor of the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay. It was a personal matter which, of course, did not bear witness to the institutions, and much more so since that intervention took place, there was no judicial right for the Presidents of the Supreme Court to exercise disciplinary control. We should therefore be a little more careful on this issue as to who is doing the interventions so that we do not go into other matters. I now come to the 'courts' for the help you and Mrs Vaki have said. The 'parents' that New Democracy said to the aid does not mean that we have voted against the aid. It means that we have voted against your policy, your republics. It means that we have voted against all your planning and the undermining, which has taken place in your negotiation and opportunistic policy on these issues, which concern the functioning of the rule of law and social benefits. Much more, you cannot go along with what you are doing when you voted against similar provisions of the New Democracy on government. Now, even if that's the case, why don't you bring the reduced VAT you have announced? The Prime Minister has said so. The House will close in a few days and we do not see VAT coming yet. The new Republic first raised the question of the reintroduction of VAT. And our relevant department of finance, Mr Besiropoulos, has done a proportionate study of the burdens of reintroducing it, which is not so important in terms of island policy. And you're coming now and you're saying you're making a concession to the islands for something they've got. So what are you telling them? You say to them: 'We take something, we give it back to you and they must be obliged and rejoice about something they have had'. We, when the question of VAT was raised in the Samaras Government, put a red line and said 'no vote will pass', that is to say, its abolition. And that's exactly what happened. You are now coming, that is, abolishing it, saying that you are bringing it back, and that the islands must also be obliged. Oh, no! Bring the VAT here and we state very clearly that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of it. Here's the Rhodes, here's the fuck and the fuck. Now, as far as the SAD General Assembly is concerned, what you have said. Mr Mitsotakis defended the union - you were present - the independence of justice with what was done and you see that the applause he received was intense and protracted. Of course, the question of working hours and holidays has been raised. These are issues that other institutions of justice have sometimes put to me when I was Minister of Justice, the Heads of Justice and the Heads of State or Government. Indeed, other factors in the trials have had a debate on working hours and holidays. But Mr Mitsotakis - read his statements well - did not say that he was in favour of extending or abolishing the holiday time. He said these issues would be dealt with in time. Please refer to his statements. They're taped.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u215	We get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u216	Minister, don't interrupt. Let the speaker finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u217	Minister, you were there and be very careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u218	You're constantly making suggestions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u219	Come on, Mr. Athanasios, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u220	That's right. With regard to the position of the Bureau of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors on the matter, which you are referring to. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would also like the four minutes of my friend, Mr Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u221	I'm not a friend of Mr. Athanasios. This savoir vivre you can forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u222	Let's do less, Mr. Athanasios. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u223	I had a vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u224	All right, we're counting the holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u225	Listen, you may not like the new board of judges and prosecutors, but it is a council with a new president and a new bureau of unified, decisive and discerned for his wisdom. After three and a half years it is a new bureau, which does not enter party reasonable. And bring peace to the judiciary. It is not a presiding office that performs so that it is pleasurable to your Government. And of course, it's not a presidium that sends letters to Mr. Juncker. Now, on another point which I wanted to raise, I thought we had gone over last night, but I see that you insisted and made a statement, Minister, along with the Minister for Civil Protection, on the Afghan issue. To clarify this issue, the provisions passed by the New Democracy, when I was honoured to be the Minister of Justice, who could come out with 2/5, explicitly excluded offences related to the robbery, intentional homicides, grabbing, crimes against sexual freedom. The legislation that you passed in 2015 does not exclude all these offences. The defendant therefore committed an attempt at homicide and robbery, which was an exception. With my law, he wouldn't be out right now. However, with beneficial provisions which you have voted on and we objected to it, they are outside. I'm not saying there shouldn't be that law. There should be the law as we did it, not the offences that have a great deal of social decency, which we then burned in the House, but, unfortunately, we did not hear the results today. Of course, we cannot celebrate the results. We regret, however, that the country is also being exposed abroad. You saw what happened to the murder of the German diplomat's daughter. And don't tell me what you said yesterday he was a minor. For the non-legislative, I have to tell you this. The penalty measure is the court that imposed it. The court judged, when judging the particular defendant who was an adult, that reform measures were not enough and imprisoned him ten years. So there is neither in the legislation I have had the honour of voting in the legislation of Mr Paraskevi, because there is no such provision in this case, much more since the law was limited. It was only for offences when the law was passed, those who served up to ten years, only for a limited period of time. And I can't hear these excesses that it's supposedly related to incapacity. No relationship at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u226	Mr. Athanasios, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u227	Now, because I have too much to say, I have told the committee about the Bankruptcy Code, which is an institutional law, and I have too much to say, which would also help the Ministry, I will stay in two provisions, because I have no time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u228	There is also the discussion on the articles on Monday, Mr Athanasios, and there you can unfold your views.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u229	I'd like half a minute. It can make it easier for the Minister too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u230	We've reached eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u231	Eleven minutes, the others spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u232	Invoke the kindness, the tolerance of the Bureau. Not you, all the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u233	I'll finish with the two provisions. I shall refer to Rule 17 and Rule 56a. Listen. As regards Article 17, which concerns the relations between the administrative proceedings - it is legal - criminal and political proceedings, the first paragraph existed, that 'the courts are bound by the judgments of the civil courts with regard to all'. That was the case in the previous legislative regime. I have always objected to this. Why? Because it cannot be said that a decision by a political court commits and applies to everyone. For example, I have a claim....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u234	No, Mr. Athanasios. I'm sorry, not an example. You're done here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u235	I'm not saying it, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u236	I beg your pardon, the rest of the speakers will rightly want to reach four and a half minutes, as you have asked for the four minutes of Mr Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u237	I'd be done, Mr. President, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u238	We are good and infrastructural, but at some point the Bureau should also take measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u239	In the second, which concerns criminal law - listen to this - look at it, because you will create major legal problems. Insert a compulsory suspension in the criminal proceedings until such time as the administrative proceedings are closed, because there will be conflicting decisions. And I'm telling you this from my experience in case-law. And finally, as regards Article 56a for the ten-year limitation, I, philosophically, have no objection to the ten-year limitation being made, despite the criticisms heard. I agree, because that's what it is. In order to avoid the slightest suspicion that it is photographic provision for specific cases, however, make them apply from now on. That is, not to take over the outstanding cases. Listen. If you want to speed up - and I agree with that - put that limit on, so that you cannot be told that it is a photographic provision, that is, that the counting takes place within the year, from now on. Only then could we vote for it. Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I have not been able to deal with any other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u240	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, I would ask you to clarify this. The last thing Mr Athanasios said, is the New Democracy Party? We need an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u242	Personal opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u243	You raised a question, Minister. Are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, I mean that this provision can, in order not to be blamed, apply from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u245	Tell us what you voted for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u246	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, we are used to it, Mr Athanasios, in the conflicts for everything that lies between the government and the opposition. And of course the occasion was given...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u248	Don't say that to me. It's not my character, it's my tradition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u249	Don't interrupt. Mr. Athanasios, how many minutes would you like to talk? That's enough. Excuse me, why are you interrupting? He is a parliamentary representative and you interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u250	I have not talked to anyone personally, please very much! I say you have to stop talking, at least when the speaker is in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u251	I didn't talk to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u252	You were talking to the minister, weren't you? Didn't you make a noise? Excuse me very much, what else do you want to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u253	You tell me how much I respect you and appreciate you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u254	All right, calm down, Mr. Athanasios. Go on, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u255	I don't understand. I say that from the cohorts we are accustomed to either the government or the counterpopulation. And the occasion was given with this aid you gave to the low-pensioners yesterday. And what was that? A very small part of what you have stolen from them and New Democracy - PASOK and SYRIZA - ANEL. And you will continue to take their money. And it has the nerve of the government talking about a tenth pension. What thirteenth pension? It's just a help. You didn't vote here - didn't you vote for him? - the Katrugalu law that says 12 pensions are entitled? Twelve pensions are entitled to pensioners. Nowhere does the thirteenth pension come from. And you're saying you're giving multiples of what you've taken them? But it has not been possible to vote on this amendment, this aid of 600 million and the Ministerial Circular of the Ministry of Labour comes out on how the CSCE will be cut from 20 to 22 December in two hundred and fifty thousand families. They will be reduced by 50%, resulting in the low pensioners losing around 500 million in 2017 alone. And you have the courage to say that you are giving them something when you voted a week ago on the budget, which provides for payments from new measures of 4 billion. 3 billion is from taxation and 1 billion from expenditure reductions. And you claim that the primary surpluses are not bloodless? Who are you telling? Mrs. Vaki said so. How much have you received from the 1 billion said by Mr Triantafylides for the last three years? What was collected? Is 10 percent collected? Is that enough to say that it is the 4 billion more primary surplus that has in eleven months, when these are taxes paid to them again by the people, when these are reductions in health, education, social security which one way or another comes out of the pocket of people's incomes? So you take them 100 and you return them 10. And you're telling them to be happy you returned them and the ten of the 100 of them you stole. "And don't worry, God has. In the future you will get more!" Are you serious? When the second assessment under the third memorandum is under way, which provides for new measures for the next period, are you negotiating? When this fight you say that you are giving for the Greek capital, for the Greek monopolistic groups, for debt write-down, will it mean anti-grassroots measures of primary surpluses for at least a decade? And you come and cultivate what? The impression that "see, in turn, where growth is enough, we will also give you something". Who are you lying to? Of course you find them and do them, because with their attitude the Civic Opposition makes it easier for you, who wants to be the king's king, subordinate to the jewels and demands of the lenders and institutions. But on the other hand either New Democracy or PASOK struggling for low-paid people when their own measures, their own legislation, were those that unleashed the labour market, which have stunned it, which have shaped this working Middle Ages by saying today that they are a hundred and twenty-five thousand workers who are paid less than 100 euros? Whose result is it? Is that only SYRIZA - ANEL policy? It's not New Democracy's PASOK outcome, is it? On these measures, has the anti-popularity of the previous governments not been lifted by the current government and brought the third memorandum? But that is a precondition for shielding competitiveness and capitalist profitability, a very cheap worker without labour and insurance rights. Therefore, in order to maintain growth, which the government is evangelizing, the working class and the other popular layers need to be bleeded into the altar of competitiveness and profitability. It can't be done from anywhere else. And from this point of view and today's bill in these contexts is part of it. In other words, implementation of the prerequisites, to close the second assessment, to create a more favourable environment for business groups. And from this point of view, Mrs Vaki has said, it is not neutral. Of course, the bill is not neutral, but it is classic, it is an anti-linguistic bill on all three major axes which it has both the Banking Code and the voluntary disclosure of undeclared income in both electronic transactions. It serves certain class interests as well as the Banking Code. Does he have a progressive mark on the Bankruptcy Code? But doesn't it liberate the provisions even more? Does it not make it easier for the corporate groups to move quickly into the bankruptcy procedure and to get the owners of bankrupt enterprises out of business to be able to make new investments again? Does it not place the banks first of all in control of this whole process and be the first to be compensated? And is it not a very concrete attempt to limit the damage from the destruction of funds and to be able to exploit the assets of the bankrupt enterprises in order to change hands, to give other entrepreneurs? And their compensation workers, where are they going, in what process? Nowhere, they're flying out. If they get there, because that's what the new bankruptcy code says that you voted on. In other words, banks are leading the state and then workers if they have claims from bankrupt enterprises. Who, then, is serving the new bankruptcy code? What's easy? It facilitates, through this process, the acquisition of bankrupt enterprises, so even greater growth of business groups. A corresponding logic is the voluntary disclosure of undeclared incomes. By who? Is that from the unemployed? What's this? It's money laundering. It makes it easier to legitimize black money from black economic activity. In fact, not only the one who self-definely, but even the one who has started the check or who has been sent to him that he will have control over these favorable arrangements. And it is enough that the Industrial Industries Association of Attica and Piraeus asks for more, that is to say, to join these measures, even those who have obtained final determination of the fines and fees. That is to say, everyone can join. Who, then, serves? For whom is it? It is in favour of all that, in previous years, even now, they are speculating on the backs of the workers and the rest of the populace. That is what you are making easier on the substance. The issue of electronic transactions, plastic money, also has similar logic. Do you want to deal with tax evasion and say that when scandalously there are these privileges to big capital and you keep them and you will extend them? Is that the point? Shipowners, other parts of the capital, triangular transactions, the operation of tax havens, the legal avoidance of large capital and which you, in the context of the reduction of primary surpluses, say you need to further reduce their taxation? You say it about tax competition and, of course, you are also being pushed by other opposition parties "reduce business tax. Can't you see what's going on in Bulgaria?' And there you go. In such a logic you go, you further reduce the taxation of legal persons, and through this procedure, where you are legally giving the right to big tax evasion, and there is also lawfully big tax evasion, you come and you say I am going to smash tax evasion with plastic money. Isn't that for the benefit of the banks? All transactions will pass through the banks, beyond the recording. So the money will stay in the banks. Procurement won't the banks get from these transactions? Sure. Is it in the interests of consumers that the banks or the small traders, small and medium-sized companies, who will see even more of them reduced their turnover? And it's not enough that they have to pay the tax, the insurance funds, they're going to pay the banks a price based on the cigarette to use the plastic money. You are punishing them more and from this process the market is concentrating, the market will concentrate on less and less hands, because they really will not be able to respond. You give them a push further, so that professionals, self-employed people, small traders cannot respond to these procedures of plastic money and all these developments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I conclude with Rule 52, which has been discussed. Minister, for Article 52, even the GFCM itself has asked for it to be withdrawn and you cannot play it over here that you are thinking of lawyers when you did not think of them with your own measures. You didn't think with insurance about the lawyers or the VAT you thought about them. From this point of view, we, too, are asking - we will not vote for it, we will vote'residents' - to reconsider this article.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Germenis has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u257	The e-commerce bill has been dragged into the miners for months, because it has been traded both for the limit of money that will include and for which of them will be taken into account for the individual expenses of the taxpayer. After the criminal bleeding of the banks from the recapitalisation money in which the citizens themselves participated through their taxation and limiting the movement of funds imposed by the ridiculous policies of the SYRIZA Government, the next stage for total deletion of Greek property is the disappearance of natural money and its replacement with plastic money. Your government, a servant of the new order of things, has achieved what the neotaxies have been trying unsuccessfully even in the most capitalist countries, the replacement of natural money by electronic means, so that every form of transaction can be controlled through it as well. Neither in the United States nor in any advanced technologically European country has the right, in the way you legislate, to choose the method of payment of the debt. Only you, with the supposed moral advantage of the Left, have overcome in a capitalist mind even the hardest representatives of the markets, by imposing such totalitarian methods on trade. The draft law with these Articles 62 and 67 alibily extends the fight against evasion of electronic transactions - and indeed in a compulsory and unrealistic manner - to an increasingly wide range of economic transactions so as to prevent the use of natural money from being prohibited. At the same time as this system is extended, the service provider, a shop, a freelance professional, is transformed into a bank, since there is no provision at all for the use of the PO devices, which operate primarily for the benefit of the banks with the great commissions they collect. And we know that even the pavilions when selling a pack of cigarettes don't earn anything from this sale. Will you use POS on this? People will come in, too. How much does a steep earn when he sells a pack of cigarettes? It wins about 0.5 euros, 0.7 euros. If your Government were indeed interested in the revenues, and if it were against banking practices, it would have had to be the first day with capital control to have forced banks to accept electronic transactions with a minimum to zero commissions, rather than threatening, with a fine of EUR 1 000, the professionals who do not comply, as you are doing today, with this unacceptable bill. The arrangements for the realisation of the costs of obtaining goods by electronic money and supposedly a reduction in the rate of tax to those who use it in such a way that it cannot be operational, since it obliges the consumer to spend a excessive proportion of his income, in addition, forcing him to do so. Otherwise, he is charged with a rate of tax that can reach up to 22%. Really, what kind of motive is this if you don't spend your money on plastic money? What "luminous brain" of your financial staff is the one who thought that in order to obtain the relief tax a taxpayer should use cards for specific purchases rather than those he wants? Can you make a commitment here today that the use of cards will taxly relieve citizens when they pay their expenses for DECF, insurance funds, for supermarkets? Will the cards be used for all the other costs of the taxpayer, so that his income will ultimately be consumed at the end of the year? The end of your Stalinist type of idealism reaches Article 69, which prohibits any transaction with natural money that exceeds EUR 500, while in Article 70 you establish the lottery, which exists only in a few third-world Asian countries. So, along with casinos and slot machines, which after this bill will grow in every neighborhood, you also institutionalize the lottery of the Ministry of Finance. Is that your famous development plan? Is this how you're going to create a surplus? If your Government really wanted to defend public revenues and hit tax evasion, it could eliminate oil smuggling, cigarette smuggling, gold exports. It has filled every neighborhood with shops that say "We buy the gold". What is the performance of your control mechanisms in this area? So your only concern is the complete dehydration of the market from cash, the collection of all money in the hands of lenders, so that every economic activity can be systematically controlled by them. The EUR 500 that the government imposes as a ceiling for money transactions is evident that they cannot pay anything to the funds. The 'black', illegal transactions will continue to be the ones who at times stole the public with their businesses or who were tax-free are the ones who stole oil or stole cigarettes, stole gold and those who don't have so many years in the public economy of the country, who don't pay from their pocket, and will continue to do the same now with plastic money. They're gonna pay with plastic cards? With cash they'll pay. Instead of providing incentives for investing the remaining funds that are hidden, you are creating a stumbling block that hampers any potential development perspective. At the same time, you refuse to collect the 600 million VAT from the German consortium operated by the Athens Airport and you have so far not brought any regulation, no tax information from these multinational companies located in Greece on what taxes they pay to the Greek State. It is you who, while easily in the same bill, legislate about casinos and slots in which abundant 'black money' is washed, refuse to trade more than 500 euros to ensure that they are monitored, so that you do not get rid of any euro from the VAT of a poor free trader. We, if God ever wants such bills, will eliminate them with an article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u258	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and three teachers from the Esperano PAL Corinth. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, in plenary, the debate on a very serious bill concerning the establishment and implementation throughout the country of guaranteed social income, an innovative institution, which will in fact help to tackle extreme poverty, will help people who experience the difficult and will experience it for a considerable time yet. However, the debate has been one-sided by the vote on the social dividend provision. While in the past hours and days all the political forces had placed themselves positively to pay this social dividend, which is only a small part, a small restoration of the damage suffered by pensioners, following the announcement of a roll-call vote, other parties changed their position, without getting any new ones, and others left Parliament. The two arguments put forward by the New Democracy and the other parties were, firstly, that there was a roll-call vote that did not need - and this clearly has a basis - and, secondly, that the partners were not in agreement, that there was a problem with the partners. Today with great surprise from the Step here it was heard, but I learned that, apart from Mr Athanasios and Mr Kikilis, the New Democracy will vote for the amendment, if it comes, to suspend the abolition of the reduced VAT on the islands. I ask, since I say 'did the children welcome': does the denomination not apply, which will take place on Monday or Tuesday, to this matter? Is the non-agreement not the case - why is this topic out of agreement really - with partners now? I hear that the Members of Parliament - and rightly so - said: No, no, no. We won't be able to go to the islands. We won't be able to make Easter on the islands. We'll get the same thing that SYRIZA MPs, who can't go to their place. How do we do Christmas? And New Democracy changed its position without lifting the causes, which he was talking about yesterday. Whose populism, I'll say! I say this and I address the New Democracy - we shouldn't normally have to - because the organized systems copy for other cases what the'syrizotrols' are doing, as I call them, and they came in before yesterday and talked about populism for those who voted for the provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u260	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u261	Calm down, ma'am. Don't interrupt like I don't interrupt when you talk. It is a matter for which political explanations are needed, such as political explanations, and Mr Tsipras, after coming from outside and after the meetings with Mrs Merkel and others, because he deals mainly with the allegedly controversy with the partners, and in fact there is no distribution of the social dividend, and there is no tampering with the high surpluses of 3.5% which she has agreed and the weakness of effective government debt regulation. However, I should like to return to the subject of the amendment. I will say that today we have tabled an amendment not to suspend, but to abolish the provision for the abolition of reduced VAT on the islands, and we will ask the Minister to accept it and to put it to the vote. Of course, what we are discussing in our debate is to see how the measures provided for in the Constitution, such as the support for the islands, such as the reduced VAT on the islands, are not to be abolished, which relates essentially to the compensation of the permanent disadvantage that the islands have with the isolation of communications which they have, particularly in the summer months. Why am I saying that? Because many people are asymmetrically speaking to the islanders, to those who live in the mainland, to privileges for islanders. They have in mind some islands in the summer only when they have tourism and do not know the isolation and problems that people have experienced from September onwards - and summer, of course - until June. Let's go to Casso now. I say it because it's close to Crete, close to my island. Let's go to other islands to see and let's leave the hamburgers. But I'm saying that for a second reason too. It is not the cause, ladies and gentlemen, that leads us to suspend the application of this measure, to be the burden of immigration. No, gentlemen! This is a distortion of the constitutional check. You're a prostitute, if you do this thing. The reasoning must be because we must take special care of the islands. For the problem of immigrants and refugees, there are other actions and other programmes with which we can support these regions, so that the problem is managed rationally and efficiently. I come to the bill, which in the part concerning the Ministry of Finance promotes the further implementation of electronic transactions. Electronic transactions were in a violent way imposed on capital controls in Greece and further promoted, tax-free. They are wrongly linked to taxfree and only to certain categories. There had to be incentives, gentlemen, for the application of electronic transactions, through the return of part of VAT to the consumer and through the reduction of income tax for businesses, which use them for the part that they receive from electronic transactions. There are three problems. I mention it quickly, and I close it: The first concerns businesses, which will be forced to have POS, to collect electronically, but they will not be able to have the money available to pay workers to pay for their obligations. That is why we have tabled an amendment to establish a professional inconsistent account, both for farmers and businesses and for professionals, in order to facilitate their operation. They won't hide or steal anything. Their function is to make sure. It is the government's duty to accept the proposal. The fact that our institutions and our partners have not agreed is not our concern right now. We are the Greek Parliament and we must institutionalise. Let you negotiate to agree to the joint ministerial decision, the rules according to which this measure will be implemented. The second is bank overcompensation. Other colleagues have referred to this. Look, it's not a directive. I say this for those who say 'European party' and so forth and for those who talk about directives. It's a regulation. The regulation means that it is implemented immediately, without even legislating. In committee I said that Mr Tsakalotos was responsible - we found him responsible after many questions to Stathakis and to him - he had to put in place Regulation 751/2015 - he was due from December 9th, 2015, which provides for a cap on charges using plastic money. He doesn't. He's breaking duty. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Kegeroglu, you're finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u263	I shall conclude, Mr President. I still have one thing. The third issue is electronic interbank transactions which do not fall under a specific regulation. You pay 7 euros, 8 euros and 10 euros to transfer 150 euros from one bank to another. But is that possible? Are these things? Put a cap on it. Put a layout on it. Finally, I will refer to the need for an authorised provision. We have tabled an amendment - I hope that the relevant Minister or Minister will at least accept it - I do not know who has the legislative initiative - so as to provide for a ministerial decision to facilitate people with disabilities and access to ATMs and not just. It is an obligation for banks to issue special plastic cards for the blind with the Braille system and to offer all the other facilities they need. It's not without them. It's no different. We cannot legislate on trade, on the assumption that it is compulsory, and that we do not take into account the peculiarities. Thank you, Mr President, for giving us time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u264	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u265	Let's start with restoring the truth, we've constantly learned to trample it down here. The People's Association - Golden Dawn, of course, brought an amendment to the non-implementation of the increased VAT on the islands. All of you democrats did not discuss it and you did not think about it and we now hear from PASOK, the Democratic Alliance, what they are said to bring it tomorrow, he says, to vote. We brought it, but the inferiority complex you have against the Golden Dawn makes you even things that you accept are right not to talk about. Let it be brought by anyone who wants the amendment. We have tabled it first, we will vote in favour of it, because we are interested in the good of the Greek citizen. Now let's go a little further on some things we've seen. We have also been talking in committee these days, and we have heard about the infamous - against some, in other words we must overcome it as much as possible - Article 56A. So what does that 56A say? That if there is any financial scandal that has taken place over 20 years, we will stop that. It will not be in-depth investigation, it will take place in a decade. The Minister explained just now for what reasons. He said it'd be good. We have all the good intention of believing it, but there is one fact here, which makes us very suspicious. In one year from now, 2017, twenty years will be completed by the global track matches held in Athens, Athens 1997. This has been a huge scandal. The government is rushing to close it today with this bill. Why is that? So let's tell you as Golden Dawn why this thing is happening. There was a report from the Court of Auditors of the State, which had said and acted - and this was in 2013 - that in these struggles, 30 million euros have been stolen. Here's the conclusion. There is this control, and indeed, to see how things are going slowly, there was a transfer from the Prosecutor's Office, with Protocol No 65/378 with the signature of Mr Panagiotis Pullios. This had come with a date of 23-7-2007. He had ruled there is an economic scandal. From 23-7-2007, it is only six years and in 2013 the conclusion comes from the Court of Auditors, which I told you, which accounts for EUR 30 million to specific persons. Hived 30 million euros from the Greek citizen! Once this is done, there is a turbulence in the Greek Parliament, here, on the'saurus of democracy', where you are all grabbing them together. So there is a confusion and an amendment quickly comes out in an unrelated bill - in summer somewhere was - which Members sign, together with the New Democracy and PASOK, now renamed to something else, but they are the same fraudsters, either with PASOK or with the other name. What does this amendment say? This amendment says that these financial irregularities must be considered legal, since they were a exercise of competence, even if their implementation resulted in the budget of the legal person being exceeded, that is, even if the money has been stolen. This amendment is coming here. There is Mr Kourakis - in his honour at that time - the current Vice-President of Parliament, who says in the Minutes of that meeting, that 'you do not know institutions, such as financial audits, Court of Auditors, judicial authorities, which have issued detailed findings on economic irregularities, to dismantle public money with unjustified exceedance of 10 billion drachmas', then in 1997. From 9.2 billion drachmas cost 19 billion drachmas! That's what Mr. Kourakis said. Then, in the confusion that exists, Mr Georgiadis, the Vice-President of the New Democracy, comes out, who is one of those who have signed this shameful amendment. It is one of those who has signed - I will tell you more names in a moment - that these 30 million should go away and that there should be no responsibility, while the Court of Auditors has said who they are. So Mr. Georgiadis comes out and says what Golden Dawn calls you from the first moment, that you're all thieves and crooks together, by the way. Georgiadis says: "I don't know if it was perceived in SYRIZA's sports department, but those involved, as you understood before Mr. Yiannis Diaras' speech, do not only belong to PASOK and the New Democracy. Those to whom this money has been charged shall belong throughout the political world.’ What happened, whole political world? Okay? Did we get them together? Cheers? Mr Georgiadis says so and then he goes on to say that "they are human, active members of SYRIZA among them." Tell us, why do you think those people you think they're thieves and crooks, do you have them inside your party? SYRIZA, of course, came to power and not only did he dare do something about it, but it passes, I tell you, today in the draft law, in order to erase this scandal that exists. The JRC's companions, who 'take care' for the people and'run' to avoid extinction of public money and 'fight' for the ordinary Greek citizen, and say through their Parliamentary Representative that day: 'From this point of view, we consider that the particular responsibility that is generalized and collectively based on responsibilities, from which no irregularities arise...'. That's what the JRC says, while the Court of Auditors says they do. And they think that all this was done with regularity and legitimacy. It considers, however, that the budget, which goes beyond the limits of irrationality, has been exceeded. According to the JRC, it goes beyond the limits of irrationality to ask for responsibilities and to give back EUR 30 million. It concludes, saying: 'In this respect, we will not resort to populism.' Lacquism is to look for where the missing 30 million euros have gone! All the sidewalk together! We to remind the Greek people that we were in prison at the time. We were put in jail. And out there, the 'democrats', you have been drinking and drinking again, as you have been doing for forty-five years! But what's going on here? To see how things have been sometimes and you can't cover them. After having passed this disgraceful bill, with this wretched amendment, the amendment was fortunately considered by the Court of Auditors' plenary unconstitutional. So the amendment is unconstitutional. After all the efforts made by the 'lakes' together to eliminate the case, it was considered unconstitutional by the Court of Auditors. So since February 2015, when this case is pending, the money - the 30 million euros, thieves, you have taken from the Greek people! - They should have been rendered! With certain people who are accused! With particulars! Today is the SYRIZA-ANEL co-government to wash this scandal as well. Really, where is your Vice-President, Mr. Kourakis, to tell us if today he agrees or disagrees with it, as with the rest of your Members, then, as was Mr. Dritsas, who said it was a scandal? This scandal, you who became government, erase it! Of course, you have an excuse like SYRIZA that you've been swallowed by the old PASOK. So the Minister who is here and the rest of them were in PASOK's old group, who did as they wanted and today are with SYRIZA, with you, and you play ball together. So 30 million euros disappear. And the government today wants to vote on this to disappear, and they move us and the finger that this will be for the best. I am not addressing these Members here. Honestly, most people don't have much of an appreciation. There are some bright exceptions. I am not referring to the Members who were then New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. But I shall refer to the Greek people and parties that were not in the Greek Parliament at that time, such as the Union of Centres and the Potami. So you will accept that? Do you understand what's going on here? Have you gotten a lot of shit about what's going on? The Golden Dawn takes you out one by one of the scandals that have taken place in the Greek Parliament. To you democrats, who give three centimeters to the Greek people and call them "hové" and dance, when you disappear 30 million! That's about a case. They are other cases with 500 million and other cases with 400 million. Greece was thus destroyed and not by the Greek pensioner, nor by the Greek pensioner, nor by the Greek who works in the public sector, as much as we disagree as Golden Dawn, if, instead of ten people who had to work, are five hundred. Of course we're not in favour of this, so we don't get any misunderstandings. I'll tell you something else that happened back then. This amendment was signed by the then Member of the Independent Greeks, Mrs Xulidou. I think, from what it turns out, the woman obviously thought she was doing something right, but she realized that some people are making fun of her. Then, as soon as the woman took it, she sends a letter saying: "I would like to clarify that under my letter No 340/29-9-2014 to the Department of Legislative Work of the Parliament, I asked for my signature to be withdrawn from this amendment concerning the Central Organizing and Executive Committee for the World Championship of Classical Sports "Athens 1997", when reading the Court of Auditors report...", the one I tell you so long, "... I found that what is stated in the explanatory statement is false and misleading." The woman saw that there were scandals coming out of the way. But the others stayed there and all agreed together. I will also read to you what Mrs Despina Constantara, who was then Vice-President of the Court of Justice's Union of Court of Auditors, in her suggestion that she should be placed in a pan-critical gathering held on 30 October 2014. Mrs Constantara, therefore, said: 'Recently, the Court of Auditors, after too much effort and through no technical means, reached a conclusion in connection with a major sporting event organized by our country, the 1997 World Championships'. And it came up with a finding that traced deficits by accounting officers who had this management of the championship. "With surprise, bitterness and disappointment, on 7-10-2014, a parliamentary amendment was passed...", the one which I said to you, the one you all embraced, with which the expenditure was legitimised, "and while, to point out,..." says Mrs Constantara, "the Court of Auditors was in the process of seeking the deficits from the accountant income.". Long live the Greek Parliament! Long live democracy, democrats! The post of that period continues below and says that there were "by the window", payments and commissions, without having been concluded privately agreed, outrageous fees, volunteers costing 600 million drachmas and hordes of journalists who were paid unharmed. Yes, sir! And journalists probably inside. They won't be out of nowhere! So that's what you, democrats, are going to vote on today! You are all voting together here and today and Monday! Wash another 30m euros! Golden Dawn here will be and will take it all out for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u266	The floor is for the Independent MEP, Mr. Karras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. I have attempted to approach the bill and to place myself in the first place, so that we can know why we will then speak in its specific provisions. I have found a difficulty, and I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, because in principle there are four separate bills, which are accumulated in one. I am talking about the provisions of the bankruptcy procedure, the speeding up of administrative proceedings and the rationalisation of the infringements, all of the courts, and, finally, the provisions of the Ministry of Finance, concerning the taxation of secret income, to casinos, up to anything else that could be, in particular, the change in the financial discipline of the Greek State. So there can be no debate at first glance. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Furthermore, I would like to say that in the way in which a bill with four different items has been introduced into the committees, there are still principles of the Rules of Procedure in plenary today. I am not talking about the urgency or urgency or the normal procedure, but about the fact that there should be an independent Committee on Public Administration and Justice and an independent Committee on Economic Affairs to deal with the provisions. That's not what happened either. They all came together - supposedly - meetings, and the Committee on Production and Trade was to be at another meeting on the part of bankruptcy law. Today, then, we are called upon to vote at first instance on this draft law. What principle? I didn't understand it. But I'm going to say some thoughts right now, since the bill has necessarily come and I'm placed. As far as the issue of bankruptcy law is concerned, I know from bankruptcy law and, as lawmaker, you will forgive me to say that I may be the oldest, most active, fighting lawyer in this House and, therefore, I have the right to comment on it. Bankruptcy law, as de facto deleted, whether the procedure is accelerated or delayed, has extraterritorial factors which no legislation can address, such as the judiciary, the speed of the judiciary, the negligence of the judiciary, the diligence of the judiciary, the assembly, the creditors, the views, i.e. whether they wish to maintain a viable company or to dismantle it for immediate profits. We don't know them. Bankruptcy law, as it comes here, in my view, will lead to a dismantling of and sustainable businesses, because of two provisions that it has in place. The first provision is that from the day the bankruptcy will be indicted, the bankruptcy is immediately sealed, and we have to follow injunction proceedings to change, to suspend a number of issues. We are therefore taking out a part of the economy outside the economy, a large number of businesses, which are not possibly the fault of entrepreneurs, is the economic crisis, it is the closed banks, it is taxation, it is the inability of the state to face the crisis. So what did I propose to say in committee? Business loans must be prioritised, regulated and rationalised. That's out-of-court. This is the debate between the bank and the debtor. This has not been done, because the appropriate, appropriate legislation has not been drawn up. Even one of the banks doesn't sign up, because he's afraid he won't go in for infidelity. It is a mistake of infidelity, but, in any case, it is a established perception. How's it going to go to bankruptcy? He's going with the loans. He's going to go with the bank dues. The loans are red. He'll go with late interest. The loan will therefore go capitalised and will lead to the bankruptcy and the breakdown of the company. I said, and I did not hear an answer, that red loans should be set out beforehand, that they should be cleared out of court, that we see what we can save. From that point on, let us go bankrupt and dismantle them. Today everything will be done 'handle' and not have the prerequisites for it, even if they can survive. Secondly, I am concerned about this: speed of administrative proceedings, speed up, with a Judge-Rapporteur. I said it yesterday. Since 1974 I have been a militant lawyer, at least twenty-five laws - I can list them, if you like - have come out under the heading 'accelerating justice' and everyone has failed. Today, in particular, we find ourselves in administrative law, with hundreds of times of tax cases - and I only speak of economic cases - to delay their trial and to seek ways of dealing with them, whether it will be in the presidential procedure, whether it will be in the one-sided or the three-member administrative court. I would remind you that at the moment, administrative fines for 2008 in Attica have not been dealt with. It results from the data of the Administrative Court of Athens. Where are we going? Is that how we're gonna speed up? With a rapporteur? The rapporteur cannot obtain the material if the administration, one side of the parties, refuses to follow. The same happens in the Council of State. The same is the case in the administrative appeals when they are tried as annulled. The file is not easy, but it is not possible for the judge, the rapporteur, to go and knock on the service door, because the procedure does not allow him to do so, and to ask for the file or the evidence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I call for a minimum tolerance, Mr President. So let us stay in the old system and find ways of rationalising, or even by waiving disputes and deleting small economic cases, so that we can alleviate the administrative court's efforts to promote the administrative trial. I will not go into the procedural details because I do not have time, Mr President. What has concerned me is the so-called'registration', the 10-year limitation on government accounting. You know he's opening a huge problem here. Why is he opening up a huge problem? The accounting officers also have an obligation to compensate the State if they have been abused if they have been mismanaged. It says, therefore, that the right of the public to vote in local elections should be waived in the ten years. The evidence is being destroyed, unless - he says - the charge operation has been launched and issued. This is a question automatically raised. In fact, I have followed the Minister very closely, who said that the improper side of the charge is not recorded in Article 249, and possibly the criminal offence, which is usually a felony and will be dropped by 15 years, since we have the law on abuses of the public in front of us if the public demand is to pass 150,000 euros. So I ask myself: are the figures being destroyed in those that did not start testing? They're ruined. With what evidence will the State, in accordance with Article 249, demonstrate its claim to the State, when it says that it is twenty-year old that the Civil Code is to be applied in analogy and with what information, if the criminal case law is opened in thirteen years? Because if it arises from another, it will open up criminal liability when it has no evidence to prove. Are we kidding? What evidence? One more thing. If we want to accept the decade, we want to accept something else. To accept, in order to alleviate the world, which has been frightened by the truce of the Treasury in bank accounts, real estate, and 10-year limitation in the increase of property. You know better than me that, when the law came out, in 2010, the first interpretation that was given to tax the oldest incomes was that they have been cancelled or that the law has no retroactive effect. There has been a decision of the Council of State, which said what? It's not a matter of fact here. It's not a limitation. It is a point of order that the legislator could put it in procedural terms. And we're at 99. I agree with the 10-year limitation if there is a 10-year limitation for private individuals. We cannot be unequal on these points. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that. I have heard - and I disagree - many of my fellow Members who say that Article 12 of Law 3900/2010, as amended today, is unconstitutional. What does this article say? It says that, in order to go to the Board of State, there must be a different case-law from the court's judge. He says that if you go to the administrative court, in case the dispute comes, you should plead either that there is no case-law covering you or the court has decided on the contrary. I note, therefore, only that legal means are not guaranteed by constitutional law. The Constitution ensures only the right of access to justice. It does not guarantee the right of once-and-a-half degrees of jurisdiction and justice, even if the judgment often involves human error. I note this, that it should be recorded in the Minutes, so that there is no impression that the Greek Parliament is not aware, that we cannot put forward opinions which create false impressions, i.e. that here - I am not a friend of the government, but I will say it - come out and usually anti-constitutional laws. They don't usually come out of unconstitutional laws. I think it is an exception to unconstitutionalism. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on the bill under discussion, I should like to express a question that has been raised from the fourteen months of my presence in the national Parliament concerning the attitude of many officials from the Civilian Representation Officer. We note that in many votes several Members, several Members, of the New Democracy, are absent. So in yesterday's vote on the amendment, which related to the award or otherwise of the allowance to one and a half million low pensioners, who have been brutally affected since 2010 and after the economic crisis, many New Democracy Members have again chosen to be absent. I wonder whether they did not want to join Mr Shoeble's chariot, which Mr Mitsotakis also adopted? Did they have a different view, perhaps, that they did not want to express? Did they have any other unsuccessful obligations? They were also St. Liberty yesterday and, if necessary, would have to go to a celebration and prefer it to be present in the national Parliament. I look forward to an answer from the absent. As far as this draft law is concerned, it comes up to ask critical questions more than ever about the improperness and stiffness of the old party system, which the SYRIZA Government is now about to face. Questions are relentless, as this draft law offers solutions to a number of issues, which should have been resolved for decades. This is not a question of recent years and it has not even arisen because of the economic crisis. It concerns problems that have agitated the country for a long time, and that is why they had come to be structurally designated, and are related to the relaunching of the economy and the acceleration in the administration of justice. The governments of the New Democracy and PASOK as they usually liked to hide them under the carpet. The current government sees the crisis as an opportunity and highlights it, indifferent to possible political costs. There will certainly be objections and perhaps in the debate on some of them we should also come back to the future. But at least they are at least being affected for the first time, and this is also our noticeable difference from the previous governments. Who would doubt, for example, that bankruptcy law should help the functioning of the economy in terms, if anything, of justice? There are a number of entrepreneurs who have been hit by the consequences of the crisis and while they are trying to regain, by fulfilling their obligations, their up to date legislative framework has put them in obstacles. Who would have doubted that bankruptcy proceedings should be accelerated? This acceleration, in addition to practical solutions, will also inspire the feeling that the state is next to everyone and does not come to operate punishingly to those who fought but have disobeyed. The procedures to date are extremely time-consuming and often even exceed ten years. The measures to speed up and rationalise administrative proceedings, both in the Council of State and in the ordinary administrative courts, extend to a wide range. In particular, the Board of State is to introduce the legal means of requesting the reopening of proceedings. The institution of an intra-judicial settlement of disputes by actions for claims under administrative contracts shall be introduced. The institution of the Judge-Rapporteur shall also be introduced into administrative differences in substance other than actions. The conditions for appealing and appealing before the Council of State are waived. The procedure for suspending enforcement in tax, customs and financial disputes shall be streamlined. The administrative courts are now bound by the irrevocable judgments of criminal courts. I would also like to dwell on the fifth part of the multi-brand plan, which relates to the voluntary disclosure programme for each taxpayer. We must finally draw a dividing line with the past, settle the old loose ends and move forward. Without punishment and by adopting a role of regulation, which is based on law, we believe that the programme will contribute to increasing revenue and will deal adequately with tax evasion phenomena. There is no independent tax rate, and there will be no tax ambiguity, as the tax will be paid in full. No payout, no punishment. Simple intention to grant a second chance and to create a new Contracting State-citizen. Furthermore, this draft law concerns the extension of electronic payments. We now have the experience of evaluating the positive effects of such a measure, particularly in the fight against tax evasion. I hear colleagues from the New Democracy screaming because this provision has not come since 2015 with the takeover of the country's governance. Of course, we will respond, provided you also explain why you did not legislate such a provision from the beginning of the use of plastic money in our country, when you have had the responsibility for its administration for many decades. The current government legislates what you have not dared to do for decades. We are therefore motivating businesses to obtain the necessary equipment for the implementation of electronic payments. Transactions in business activities will now be carried out through the professional account. We are creating the framework for linking the income tax deduction to the costs incurred by electronic payments. Ladies and gentlemen, I began my speech by referring to our noticeable difference with the old-fashioned system. I believe that this multi-legislative draft is an example of this point of view. For many years we have wondered why nothing is being done to speed up the administration of justice, because there is no incentive to extend electronic payments. Here, then, is the opportunity to show the Greek people that, at least as far as certain self-evident issues are concerned, we can agree. The legislative initiative under discussion is added to those that leave an objectively positive footprint, focusing on transparency and the incorporation of a new relationship between the citizens and the state. The Greek people trusted SYRIZA for this reason and our duty is to honour this trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The State Secretary for Finance, Mr Papanatsiou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law includes a number of articles and provisions aimed at revealing and limiting tax evasion. This is the programme for the voluntary disclosure of the taxable material of years old, the measures to promote electronic transactions and the fight against the secretion of revenue, the arrangements for the short-term leasing of immovable property, in the context of the sharing economy, as well as other provisions. For the Left Government, the fight against tax evasion is a first objective of fiscal policy, because those who evade tax charge honest taxpayers and deprive resources even from the state's basic functions in education, health and social policy. Our Government has repeatedly stressed that Greece's great fiscal deviation from Western Europe was not on the side of public spending, but on the side of tax revenue. For many decades - including the 'fuss' decade - public expenditure as a percentage of GDP has been slightly above or below the European average. On the other hand, tax revenues were five to ten percentage points lower than the rest of Europe. This great gap comes mainly from tax evasion of all kinds, tax loopholes, corruption and smuggling, from favor to specific social classes and families. Let's say it simply and clearly: Great and favored layers of Greek society have systematically avoided for decades paying for their share, at the expense of the rest of the citizens, but also at the expense of the present and the next generation with the overcharge of the country. We have shown the political will that the previous governments did not have and we are constantly chasing for tax evasion, smuggling and corruption. We know that the tax-raisers and their accomplices will try to neutralise every measure we take. That is why we are not reassured. We want them to understand that tax compliance is the best option available to them. We want them to feel that the auditing and prosecution authorities are at their disposal. We want them to be able to be reduced then and to be reduced and strengthened by a large majority of the taxpayers who normally pay their share. In this context, there are also the measures that we have brought to the vote. The programme of voluntary disclosure of undeclared income will contribute to increasing public revenue, without rewarding or encouraging infringement behaviour. The previous laws - mentioned by my colleague Mr Amyras - called for the introduction of money and their introduction into the banking system were clearly a collective measure. The provisions of this draft law require the submission of an income tax statement on undeclared income. This is done in conjunction with the audit procedure that has been initiated - and I described you at committee meetings - and in fact we allow taxpayers to submit their tax declaration before we look at it. Our provisions are not aimed at just collective measures, but at combating tax evasion. It does not provide any tax amnesty, since the main tax will be paid in full. Those who have been notified of the definitive determination of the tax shall not have the right to participate. The others, who have not yet been checked or are at an initial stage of control, will only have reductions in fines and surcharges, as well as criminal amnesty for the offence of tax evasion. That is a quite tempting reason for everyone who is at an early stage of control to declare their incomes but also those who have concealed incomes and are not yet controlled, if they choose not to join the programme, they need to know that they can be identified through the tools we have. These include the automatic exchange of information at European Union and OECD level and cooperation with the United States of America. At the moment the tax-gatherers must know that there is a cross-check of movements, deposits and incomes in a million, thirty-three thousand VAT at the prosecutor's request from the General Secretariat of Public Income. A programme that we started with with our own government. It started piloting from the beginning of 2015, and we are now the only country in Europe that has such a programme and put it into practice. These instruments must not be afraid of them, which is legally and taxed has its money abroad or at the credit institutions in Greece or even under its mattress. It doesn't mean that all these cases, which are in crossroads, will bring us so many tax-raisers. In no case do we believe that. There are comparisons with our own programme and others that have been made in the past here or in other countries. Our programme, as I have pointed out, does not provide amnesty for tax, but only for the criminal track and the message it sends is that the tax amnesty is over. One cannot expect one to say today that he will not say the income and save the tax, which he would once pay 1%, 3% or 5% to launder this money, money for which he should have paid 26% or 40% or more depending on the year, source and amount. But, even so, tax-pillars have an incentive to comply, because as I said, we have the tools to track them down. One key reason why we have it is that we wanted it and we have it. With measures for electronic transactions, on the other hand, we are trying to create the right environment and also to motivate citizens to limit cash transactions that are the vehicle to hide revenues from businesses and professionals. In cooperation with the Ministry of Development, the framework is established in order to gradually oblige all companies in the country to accept electronic transactions. In other words, we allow the citizen to pay by card or other similar means, if he so wishes, without meeting the trader's refusal. It is also an essential measure for businesses to inform consumers by means of a strong communication at the store about the acceptance of electronic payments, which is why we are also putting the provision in question. At the same time, we are establishing the business accounts of enterprises through which transactions relating to their business are carried out. In this way, the tax authorities will have a full picture of the transactions between the citizens and the companies that have been made by electronic payments. Let me turn now to the issue of the irresponsible account, which has been debated today and the committee. On the issue of an irresponsible account, we should say that there are alternative ways of dealing with this issue and we are examining the situation. Pursuant to Article 30 of the Public Revenue Code, the Head of the DU, at the request of the debtor, is allowed to limit the amount or percentage of the confiscation by reasoned decision and under certain conditions, in order to inform the citizens, as they may not know it, that the possibility of limiting the debtor's confiscation may be 50% and may reach 70% under conditions. Also, under Article 31 of the Public Revenue Code, as amended by us by Law No.4336/2015, the incompatibility of deposits with credit institutions for a single individual or common account with a credit institution for each natural person and as a consequence also with the one who has a free profession or has an individual business up to an amount of EUR 1.250 monthly. Physical professionals, who are around nine hundred and ninety-five thousand, have the irresponsibility of all natural persons and of legal persons, the draft law on the extrajudicial compromise comes, and we believe that they will be able to settle their debts and no problem of bank seizures. So let's see how it goes with the extrajudicial compromise, and then we'll look into the inconsistent professional account. We are ready to move on to linking the tax mechanisms with the databases of the Ministry of Finance, which should have been done for many years now. In other words, apart from the electronic invoice, we are interconnecting cash registers. I repeat the issue with the old machines which are not currently able to connect, as well as with the Internet-free areas. All this will be determined by ministerial decisions and will be done gradually. None of the professionals should be upset. We are establishing the framework for duty-free payment with the costs incurred by electronic payments in order to encourage employees, pensioners and farmers to use them. But we take care of and facilitate sensitive social groups, and here we commit ourselves to the elderly, the disabled, the mental patients and some other categories that we will mention in the decisions that will be taken the next few months, leaving them to choose how their transactions will be repaid, i.e. whether they are electronic or in cash. Since I do not have much time, on Monday that we shall discuss in writing, I will be able to deal with other issues. I would just like to refer to the bank supplies, because there have been too many discussions here and it has emerged on a quite large subject. The government has done with the banks on this issue and with the Bank of Greece a number of discussions and a lot of pressure has been put on it. It seems that in recent years we have had a huge reduction in supplies. In fact, there is Community Regulation 751/2015, with which there has been no harmonisation on interchange fees. It is a matter of cohesiveness with the Ministry of Development, with which we are in close cooperation. In this draft law, Article 67 requires payment service providers to provide pricing data to the Secretariat-General for Trade and Consumer Protection, so that there is full transparency and pressure for the reduction. Already a credit institution has more favourable commissions and offers on it. We'll just let the market decide that the prices of commissions and bank charges will be lowered. We believe that with the measures contained in this draft law we are giving a strong impetus to efforts to combat tax evasion. We expect that they will bear additional revenue, which has not been included in the budget and the primary surplus. In other words, they are measures that are non-measurable. It is by definition difficult to calculate this revenue in advance, but we have every reason to believe that it will be important. The very good performance of 2016 in tax revenues has shown that we can achieve this and we have every reason to believe that it will happen in 2017 as well. Of course, we are going back to society to overcome the objectives. We do so by granting the aid to the low-pensioners and the measures for islanders of the north and east Aegean affected by the refugee crisis. We do this, as we have the right to do and as we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and two teachers attending from the 3rd Nafpaktos High School. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u273	Thank you very much, Mr President. Bankrupt code today, a law as called a "second chance" in this draft law, but a second opportunity for whom? For healthy businesses, or for those on the verge of bankruptcy, what care is there? You will certainly give an opportunity to some undertakings, which had entered Article 99 on New Democracy, to get back on their feet. The reason why it was and who it would be to go bankrupt in business, especially? It is because of the memorandum that business turnover has been drastically reduced, insurance and tax contributions have increased. So because of the memorial, surely, there's this problem. Is there a bankruptcy domino, as it is said, right now in clothing, footwear, furniture, raw materials? Of course there is. And if we look at the statistics from sixty three primary courts and Gemini, the General Commercial Registry, in the period 2012-2015, were put into bankruptcy, in Article 99, a thousand nine hundred forty companies, but worth seeing the bankruptcy scheme that each company ordered, which the seven hundred three were inactive, the five hundred thirteen had been deleted, fifty-four were in conciliation and liquidation and only five hundred thirty-four were in bankruptcy. So, in other words, we're talking about bankruptcy for one third of business. Should a second chance be given? Of course. But we also need to consider the fact of how it will be given, in what way. All the years of the memorandum the state has taken care of and arranged for the banks. All the money in the banks and in the real economy, in the small and medium-sized enterprises, has not been given a single euro. So it is very natural that there are so many bankruptcies right now in Greek trade. The 2012 bankruptcy code was characterised as a complex and time-consuming one. You're saying the new bankruptcy code will be a development tool. The fact is that trade itself and the market itself has rejected it. I'll read you a little to see what the President of the Greek Retail Sales Business said. "What today's law does, namely, to transfer responsibility, the discount procedure of which has been done before, went to the prefectures, and after a while they asked to get it back because they couldn't make any sense. The bill is trying to kill trade. We believe that you are biting the hand of those who pay the workers, who pay the taxes, who produce jobs." And it closes with this: "The last thing I want to say is that we will not close rolls, rolls, with your tactics, will close the country." These were the words of a man who lives in trade, lives in the market, lives in reality right now. Enterprises, in particular, have three options: financial restructuring, debt haircut or bankruptcy. Since they have neither the possibility of getting money nor of coming to a conciliation with the banks nor of making a haircut of their debts, they will necessarily go to the Banking Code. And we're again stressing this: They're forced to go to the bankruptcy code. Some of the reasons - we say this again and we will keep saying it - are the fall of the cigarette, the purchasing power of the Greeks now, is the increase in the losses that all companies have, the problems of liquidity and the inability to access sources of funding. All this needs to be solved first and then we need to talk about a bankruptcy code. So you need to make sure, above all, that there is cash and money in the small and medium-sized enterprises, in the Greek small and medium-sized enterprises, which are now on the verge of bankruptcy. And you think that with Article 70, with the lottery 'Public Penalty Programme', the problem will be solved. The main thing in trade is that the businessman needs stability and a healthy environment, which you do not offer. With Article 28 - tax reduction through electronic transactions - you give incentives to ensure that there is no cash in society. And what transactions are excluded? Excludes those relating to the Greek society, the Greek family. We're talking about judiciary doctors, about children's education. All of this is excluded. And what is actually going to happen? You put in the fun in general and all the other evidence you ask for. In essence, each family will not catch the target to cover the threshold, so the fines will rain. And who's paying for it? No one, because no one has money right now. Once again we see that you are out of reality, that you have no contact with Greek society. Once again we see that the memoranda, the institutions, and the policy pursued, has nothing to do with the Greek citizen. You do not care for the Greek citizen, for a Greek citizen who is currently trying to survive. It is certain that when and whenever elections come, the Greek will punish you for this policy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Antony Gregos has spoken since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Many times you of SYRIZA are trying with your attitude and your actions to rinse out the New Democracy and the PASOK. And so does the New Democracy against you. But that can't be. Scandals don't wash away. Let's say when we call you democrats in here, we call it ironic. Don't believe it. You're bringing in another bill under the urgency procedure. And I say it once again, because it is now your tactic to bring bills in this way. This means too much and does not honor you and your predecessors at all. The bill is particularly serious because it changes the tax status of citizens. It has some positive articles, of course, but I will deal mainly with the problem in order to amend it, which is, of course, difficult under the procedure. We are talking about the bankruptcy code in a country that is bankrupt and should not be, a country that you and your predecessors have been bankrupt. In the first part, which deals with the Banking Code, I will mention, for example, that creditors will have the opportunity to intervene in the management of a company in a hurry and impose the administration they want, clearly satisfying their own interests, when they consider that a company is not responsible for covering its credit obligations. This alone demonstrates the problematic nature of the provision, at least with regard to workers' rights and wages. Suppliers and workers under no circumstances have any guaranteed requirements in fact and will therefore be the last to be met. What is the insurance policy granted to them? For the first time, the term ‘solvency manager’ is a memorandum that has been gradually implemented. In an earlier bill concerning the alleged protection of the citizen - consumer at the pre-contractual stage, when traded with the bank, some broad competences were given to third persons - private individuals, of course - who will gradually replace the Body of Occupiers. On the basis of this consideration, ‘solvency managers’ are introduced into their legal system, which do not satisfy the minimum - at least as shown by the bill - the conditions for ensuring impartiality and independence in the performance of their duties. Furthermore, the argument that this draft law gives the firm a second chance to survive is completely false, because the possible adoption of a decision after two years with the possibility of exempting from the balance of claims which were not met by the bankruptcy has shown, in particular, that all you want to ensure is loans from banking institutions and not all the rights of suppliers that were not satisfied, as well as the workforce of the company in question. In another article, Article 15 gives the public's responsibility for the proper and timely performance, notification of calls and decisions by the citizen. The inability of the public to apply the rules for the performance of decisions and documents is intended to be cured through their alleged knowledge. The public retains for itself the right to violate every procedural authority and even to heal it on the grounds that the citizen and, above all, the official were aware of the decisions taken against him. In Article 22, it states: 'The improper conduct of cases is not a consequence of the timely or inadmissible presentation of the file, but a result of the more general predominant in jurisprudence'. I refer to the number of judges who may no longer be sufficient in the chambers and logistics of the courts and the respective public chambers responsible for forwarding the file to the court before the court has been appointed. Article 27. This is a punishing provision, which aims to remove all financial elements from the taxpayer, with the courage to abolish the possibility of suspending the fight against fraud in tax and customs matters. In the third part and in Articles 35, 36, 37, there is a financial burden for a party to payment of an offence, where, for reasons of staff, which may be related to his or her health, he or she is seeking to defer the proceedings, does not constitute a measure of rationalisation and speeding up the procedure for the award of justice, but is another recovery measure by the Government. In the case of Articles 38 and 39, to note that the imposition of infringements does not speed up the prevention of abuse of wrongdoing and of means of law and the right of the citizen to a luxurious product. Article 43 provides for the setting-up of a legislative committee. We have a few comments to make here. What are the formal qualifications of the persons involved in this committee? How long will the alleged codification of infringement law last? When will this committee cease its work? What's the connection between these faces? Will they carry out their duties for a reward? These are reasonable questions which, for reasons that we all understand, are ones that can be said to be ones. Because we are talking about undeclared incomes, let us say that you are of course not going to deal with the huge sums that political persons have hidden, particularly through their relatives, in the well-known and unknown routes of offshore companies. The same applies to magistrates, bankers, magistrates and well-known intertwined parties of the so-called constitutional arch. The tragic thing is that even in the Committee on the Control of the parties and the Political Persons, which you have legally established, they cannot participate other parties than the ruling party and the opposition party. We have said, on several occasions, that corruption and complexity cannot be fought by you by these means. We are talking about plastic money when we all know that the use of cash cannot be abolished. Still there are capital controls. However, tax evasion is mainly in its origin. The use of plastic money can function by ancillary and specific criteria. I heard a speaker from SYRIZA talking about the smile of the Greek people. Unfortunately, no one is smiling in Greece anymore. I remember, however, that during the budget debate, Members of the SYRIZA sat here and smiled. That was provocative and outrageous for those who saw it. We always vote in the interests of the Greek people, the Greek people, who give us the power and which we express as the third political force for the time being. We continue our struggle on all fronts and everywhere, going on the path of virtue and transparency. You do not even do the elementary thing: ask even right now for a great apologies from the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Theocharis Theocharis, an Independent MEP, is the last speaker for today. Here, Mr. Theocharis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u277	Ladies and gentlemen, without a modern, rapid, effective Code of Acquisition, no country is going to develop any economy. Especially in our case, after so many years of crisis, we are not going to get out of it without modernising these procedures. What should we do to improve the restructuring process of the Greek economy? To improve, of course, the bankruptcy code with accelerating and able to agree between creditors, even when the shareholder does not agree. The aim is to save business, because they have social prints, they have customers, they have employees, they have suppliers, not necessarily the shareholders. On the other hand, the shareholders who cooperate, the shareholders who hurt their business and have simply faced a difficulty greater than their own, should be rescued. The bankruptcy code has to give a second chance to the non-injurious businessman, as the Minister has actually told us. And we welcome it as a positive benefit. It must not, at the same time, allow rich businessmen with the bankrupt businesses to move freely. Too many such cases have been recorded. Secondly, we need to take the business red loans from the banks so that they, free of burden, start borrowing at last. This means creating the so-called 'bad' bank. If the rest of the banks have a share of the profits from this bank, then we won't have to write any damages, great losses, so we'll avoid bad recapitalisation scenarios. Thirdly, to fund this bank, the bank that will be outside political influence, if management is carried out by professionals in the area, through voluntary repatriation of funds. Instead of taxing 40% to 70%, as you do with this bill, risking the success of the project, tell the Greeks who have funds abroad: "Lock your money for seven or ten years and you will win from the restructuring of the Greek economy". This will also remove the second objection we hear from the partners. Greek funds will restructure the economy and there will be no need for funds from abroad, from the European taxpayer. Only then will we have the benefit of relaunching the banks immediately and relatively quickly the second benefit of restructuring the firms in difficulty, making investors resurrect our country with a positive eye. I would like to say two words about the voluntary disclosure of incomes. The more time we go, the harder it is for the Command to reveal this money. It is therefore completely wrong to increase the old income tax, which some of them may even be close to the limitation. You are relying on the punishing logic of services, rather than on the logic of the right incentives, which would lead to voluntary disclosure of incomes. But that's how you're gonna fail. But, in fact, we will all fail. Ladies and gentlemen, our economy is based on uncompetitive small and medium-sized enterprises. The lack of competitiveness is a time-consuming result of high bureaucracy. It's not their fault, it's paperwork. Today, however, the lack of liquidity, as well as accumulated debts, does not allow small and medium-sized enterprises to survive, apart from illegality, tax evasion and tax evasion. We are often talking about the amortization measures of the external debt. The internal debt, however, has created suffocation conditions for thousands of professionals. There is an urgent need for a new framework which will allow it to be eliminated, but at the same time, with legality. I propose a rescue programme for small and medium-sized enterprises: All public debts and funds are frozen and paid off with 10% of the profits for the next 10 years. At the same time, companies that are being rescued have a direct payment of VAT, electronic invoices, non-payment of cash invoices, an electronic declaration by all officials - even temporary - at the time of taking up the duties, electronically recorded books, linked to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue. Finally, a special Joint Parliament of the APRC and of the GATT will carry out audits at least once every two years, with an express commitment to withdraw a licence for any infringement. So, and we will save these small and medium-sized enterprises, but, above all, they will inspire the culture of legitimacy. Because this will save everything that can be saved from an economy in which we kill the small and medium-sized ones and let the big ones go. If you want to save small and medium-sized enterprises, you must also accept the amendment that we have tabled to you by four independent Members. There are thousands of companies that have closed off at the expense of debts, but have otherwise fulfilled their obligations. Of these, we cannot collect anything anymore. They're closed, they don't have a cigarette to pay us. When a man has no income, he can't pay anything. If, however, we give them a chance to start again, to relaunch and pay the capital they owe, giving fines and surcharges, and collecting results, we will have and will help the small and medium-sized economy. I would therefore ask you, Mrs Papanatsiou, to look at it positively and to accept it, even with any corrections you want to make. Ladies and gentlemen, you will also bring in the provisions on plastic money. We're focusing again on retail, instead of locking the wholesale. Global obligation for electronic invoicing and electronic payment of invoicing with closed warehouses. It can be done. Systems exist. DIAIA S.A. has a ready system. Let's make use of it. That way, and retail will have an increase in turnover, because when you buy, you're forced to show proof that you're selling it. Tax evasion in services is a different matter and certainly not at present. However, you won't catch the tax evasion with your plastic money. The obligations are small. The world will cover them with supermarkets or even gasoline. Taxes on the other hand are too big. And where it matters, the transaction will take place without proof and there will be no problem for the tax-raisers. More you've done with capital controls than with this tax evasion bill. You will not catch it because with Mr. Tsakalotou's successful negotiations, you have not been able to bring the irresponsible account. This hits small and medium-sized enterprises again and will give the big companies an advantage. I wonder if that's what you're doing in the end. Why - we will also discuss this with the articles - you are assimilating the OPCW agents to arms dealers? What's that logic? Why are these photographic provisions prohibiting the network of OPCWs from conducting electronic transactions, when we are already paying the bills, when it applies to all countries in Europe? Do you serve any interests? Tell us openly. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, which cuts off the heating allowance and leaves it in 1/4 of what it was - in 55 million - the bill that cuts the student allowance, the bill that abolishes exemptions, contrary to what the Prime Minister promised in IGC, would not be complete if it were not hired. In fact, I cannot imagine what lack of consciousness allows you to recruit twenty people at the cost of 360,000 euros a year in this House, the bill costing hundreds of millions of millions to the Greek people, the same day that, according to data presented by the same Minister of Labour, Mrs Ahtsoglou, there are hundreds of twenty-five thousand people paid less than 100 euros. Can you imagine? Less than 100 euros a month! Science raises hands up! You continue on a dead end. European partners do not care about the country. They only care about getting paid. But why do you give them the tools to blackmail you with revolts? Would you close the negotiation on December 5th? Would you close it at the end of December, end of January? The day before yesterday, Mr. Drasakis told us about the first half of 2017. You want to give money to the world and you do it without complying with the obligations you signed and give an alibi to freeze our debt measures. You are doing this mainly unfairly and ineffectively. The same day Mrs Ahtsioglu told us about the workers of 100 euros. What are you doing for these workers with the overcrowding? Ladies and gentlemen, like many others, you follow a soft adjustment, an adjustment that is only mild and no adaptation. But that's how we got to bankruptcy. So we don't get out of bankruptcy. So we have no arguments against our lenders, so you accept the measures that serve you, measures of a program that does not come out. The fate you have reserved in this country is not worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of the Treasury of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, how does it be declared abundant? Isn't that the list? What are we waiting for?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u280	We have reached agreement, Mr Colleague, that the other speakers will speak on Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u281	Who have you reached out to?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u282	Since my colleague is here, let him speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u283	Excuse me, we have noted that you asked to speak on Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u284	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u285	It's here marked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, it is one person.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u287	But that's not it. It's to agree not to make mistakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u288	The exact opposite happened. The president told me I could talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u289	Let him speak after he waited, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u290	Because he's been waiting for so many hours, let's have an exceptional word. He's just one person.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u291	In any case, this is not the case. My colleague will speak. But let's see why the mistake was made now, because it's not a good thing to make mistakes. Here, Mr Colleague, I beg your pardon, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to exhaust your patience or, of course, it is encouraging to speak in front of an empty Chamber. One reason why I went to Stepma to welcome - not for personal reasons, but also by expressing the colleagues and colleagues of the committee for claiming German debts - the government's decision to abolish the judiciary in recognizing actions, including actions to compensate the victims of the occupying forces. To understand the importance of what I said earlier, I would like to tell you that last September the Domenic witness with a hundred and forty executed, murdered by Italian fascist troops, destroyed by the village demanded the restoration and compensation of its victims in Greek courts. It therefore appealed to the Court of First Instance in Larissa and there - let us hear it, ladies and gentlemen - to them for a sum of EUR 309 000 of the legal amount - 1% of the claimed amount of compensation. As you can see, it was impossible for the descendants of the victims and those of the victims to have survived, to make this claim, at the same time - and see the terrible contradiction - that the Italian constitutional court decided, of course, against the victims of Nazi Germany, its ally until then, that there was no limitation on crimes against humanity, a very strong decision on our own claims. You will also note that the report mentions, for the thorough study, the 'in-depth study' of our committee, which, as you know, put this request and is also in the conclusion of the intergroup parliamentary committee, in its proposals to the Greek Government. I hope that we will welcome the new year, dedicating one day to this event, in our view, a weapon for our claims. I would just like to say a few words about the importance of this issue. As has been said by the Minister and by our parliamentary representatives, the establishment of the judiciary on recognizing actions is unconstitutional. It violates Article 20(1) of the Constitution and Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which was ratified by law by our country in 1974. This is an unauthorised restriction, which prevents every citizen from having open access to justice and is tantamount to indirect abolition of the right to legal protection. It is a pretext that both Article 20(1) of the Constitution and Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights do not prevent the joint legislature from establishing procedural requirements, as is said in the legal language, concerning the progress of a trial. However, I would like to say that this unacceptable fee prevented the exercise of this individual right, as I said before under Article 1 of the Constitution. With his abolition heals. This is also in line with the public interest, given the possibility of appropriate redress, rehabilitation against war crimes, crimes against humanity and in general substantial violations of international humanitarian law and human rights, which are already standardised by conventional international criminal law. I would also like to add that, in the context of our Constitution and the internal legal order, provision is made for a number of classes of courts to be excluded from the obligation to pay judicial expenses, such as the judiciary, in order to make it easier to make claims to national civil courts for the definitive restoration of international legality, which, as you know, was violated by the crimes committed during World War II by the occupation forces against Greek civilians and protected urban property. The proposed regulation is also in line with the spirit of Article 4 of the Constitution, with the general principle of equality, since this last constitutional requirement requires substantial rather than formal numerical equality. In particular, in critical cases this is a particularly heinous crime, which has been condemned to the consciousness of mankind and, as you know, they have already mobilised the international community since the end of World War II to prevent and suppress them. These international offences and the corresponding civil offences are not just unfair acts which offend the property, life or physical integrity of the citizens of a state, but are aggressive actions against international peace and security. Acts which threaten to break internal and international legality at the same time. In conclusion, I would like to say that with the proposed article 33 in the bill under discussion, it will be easier to conduct the actions in question, the trials relating to claims, which are based on the committing of international criminal offences during World War II, which, as you know, are ponding by thousands at the moment without having been dealt with and, of course, the desirable decongestion of the great burden of the courts will also arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u293	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights bill: "Government Code, Administrative Justice, Fees - Paradoxically, Firmly Disclosure of Undeclared Incomes, Electronic transactions, Amendments to Law 4270/2014 and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u295	No, Mr President, because this bill does not have the beginning, the middle and the end. These are various provisions, legislation from various ministries. It's a bill with bare orders. We say no, but some articles that move in a positive direction will vote yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u296	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u297	Despite the fact that we will be voting on several articles, in principle we say they are present.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u298	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u301	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u302	Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: “Government Code, Administrative Justice, Fees - Paradoxically, voluntary disclosure of undeclared income, Electronic transactions, Amendments to Law 4270/2014 and other provisions” was accepted in the first place by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-12-16-S1-commons.u303	With the consent of the House at 17.35', the meeting for Monday, 19 December 2016 at 15.00', on the subject of Parliament's work (a) parliamentary scrutiny: debate on topical questions; and (b) legislative work: follow-up discussion and vote on the articles and draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Government Code, Administrative Justice, Paradoxically, voluntary disclosure of undeclared incomes, Electronic transactions, Amendments to the Act. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
