ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Please tell the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much. I have the honour to announce to the House the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents of 7 January 2016 that the topical questions, which are not discussed by a Minister's blockade, will be redefined for discussion automatically at a next parliamentary control meeting, without, as has been done so far, being necessary. This decision will not apply when the relevant Minister is abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on POSSIBLE AFFAIRS The fourth question, with number 351/5-1-2016, will be discussed in the context of the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamantos Manolakos Manolakos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on dealing with the problems of drastically reducing the basic support for farmers in the country. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I wish you a good year. But for many farmers, the new year has not entered well, firstly because of the insurance policy presented by the government, which abolishes the OGA and triples the contribution. If even today 38% of farmers have no money to pay and are uninsured, really what about the great, stubborn increases that are being made for the immediate future? Basically, people will die because they won't have medical care. And it's the most inhuman and hardest there is in this system. However, many farmers made black Christmas, Minister, because the subsidies they were waiting for were not given or were cut off. This happened in most regions, from Corfu, where their olive groves were designated as forests, up to Trikala, Aetolocarnania, Samos, Limnos, to Crete! And, of course, the major cuts were made to young farmers. The mistakes, injustices, and omissions are many without the farmers to blame. Finally, the government’s promises that they would receive full subsidies in time were sockets. Therefore, both rage and indignation breaks out on the farm both from drastic pressure, a reduction in aid with the new CAP 2014-2020, which in many cases reaches up to 50%, and the deprivation of the advance that was cut into basic aid. In fact, all this is being added to the wild, hard measures that the government has put forward and promoted, although it has in the past denounced them as a gravestone of the farm. We are talking about the 23% increase in VAT on agricultural supplies, the abolition of substantially agricultural oil and extinct taxation, the tripling of contributions to the OGA and so on. Of course, with these tough measures as a tool, a new number of small and medium-sized farmers will be exterminated by those who have managed to survive so far. We in today's question ask you to tell us what immediate measures you will take in order to give the entire basic aid to beneficiaries, without retention and what you are planning to reduce production costs, so that small and medium-sized farmers can survive.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Bolaris. Here, Mr. Bolaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs Manolakou, for the question. Fellow, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food in 2015 had two major challenges to deal with, and of course I am also referring to the supervised organisation, the OPEKEPE. The first was to resolve the issue of rights, as identified by the new CAP, a task which was difficult and painful to recognise for farmers. The second challenge, after that, was to give the advance, which was 90%, and I am referring to the basic payment. This was so, so that at the beginning of December, five hundred and sixty-four thousand producers received 90% of the basic aid, and this amount was only EUR 7 000 million, that is, EUR 993 000. It remains from the basic support to give the remaining 10% and, of course, the other pillars remain. From Pylon I we have the green reinforcement, the linked and the remaining 10%. At the same time, OPEKEPE and the Ministry had to manage the payment of the money from Pylon II from the Rural Development Programme, which were running together in the last year. It is the period 2007-2013, as you know, there were two years of extension. There were hundreds of millions, which had not been paid, and the payments had to be made at the same time. Thus the Ministry and OPEKEPE ran to make payments from the Rural Development Programme. Please note that EUR 570 million has been paid from 21 September to 31 December in the measures of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and EUR 38 000 has been paid for the European Fisheries Fund. It is money, which is at risk of being lost, and there has been a laborious effort to pay for this money. At the same time, I would like to point out to you that at OPECE, the Ministry found a huge number of outstandings from those who are abducting the current government, which involved liabilities from 2008 to 2015, which one - one - in a huge series of sectors was dealt with and paid. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you described the situation at OPEKEPE. Of course you inherited situations, there were many debts from previous years and they had to run. However, what we put to you is this: tens of thousands of farmers did not get either the advance payment of basic aid or it was literally cut. We're talking tens of thousands of people! Of course, the money you have referred to - you know that and you are well and elements of the European Union - do not go to the majority of small and medium-sized farmers. 20% of farmers get 80% of subsidies. We are therefore talking about these small and medium-sized farmers who, while they declared trees, received a subsidy as arable land. We are talking about olive groves, which, over the years, have been receiving subsidies as such, such as in Corfu - and even OPEKEPE has carried out checks on 60% of these lands - and suddenly characterise them as forests and they have not even taken half of them. There are other very hot cases and you know it, because the protests are not only reaching the parties, they must reach your ministry. They are told by OPEKEPE "do not object" and injustices are evident. And you know why I'm telling you? Because if their rights are not guaranteed this year by 2020, they will not get a penny of sacks or whatever they get, it will be cut off. After all, for those who go to make objections, there is another problem that you have to answer. They find the system of objections closed. An extension must be made, but above all the system must be opened, because they will not make any objections to it. In particular, young farmers are a terrible problem. All products for which rented rights were recognised in previous years are zero this year. You didn't give them anything. What are these new kids gonna do? You want to kick them out? Go to immigrants, like young scientists? With what courage will they continue? When the farmer owes him, you get him the corresponding amounts from the account, as soon as they get the subsidy, before he even reaches his hands, and here you deny them the right to even object. And we're telling you that the farmers too are a very big problem. Buscious land this year is not recognized. We need a timetable and specific responses, because farmers are rightly coming out into mobilisation. We will be with them, but we also call on other workers to show solidarity and solidarity in their fair struggle.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, seventeen American students from the New York University. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Bolaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Manolakos, who claims that this process, which had about seven hundred and fifty thousand households and millions of plots, acres, vineyards, olive groves, became perfect, the first being the truth. What matters is that 90% of the basic payment has been made. It's over. Is it outside the world? Yes, it is. Why? The payments were made with information received by the Ministry on 30 November. So those who were not in the system on 30 November and then applied for and made statements, are outside. I'm talking about an example. There is, therefore, a matter with people who are committed or who are not in time. Are they entitled? They're entitled. Will they take them? Sure. The effort made by the Ministry is the green subsidy and 10% and the associated ones will be given as soon as possible. The objections must be dealt with. Objections shall be dealt with. Are there too many objections? There's a lot of them. Tens of thousands? Tens of thousands. Do we have to see them one by one? Of course we need to see them one by one. This is the obligation that the Agency has to respond to the great need in the Greek region. But I should also like to mention examples of what problems the paying agency has had. I would like to say to you, that this period, until 31 December, has been paid a single payment for the years 2012, 2013, 2014, which was pending. Additional amounts of aid were paid for cotton for 2011, 2012, 2014. Additional aid for ovine and caprine animals was paid for 2012 and 2014. These are real people. They're thousands of people who deserve to take that money and didn't get it. They're young children...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u11	They owe it to the bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u12	I know. But think about them now, after a hard attempt. Think that now, for the first time, he unblocked the system to pay for organic farming and organic livestock farming since 2012. It is true that your reference to young farmers is correct. You're right. But think that the commitment to where the money is going and how they will be paid was not made by this government. It was in August 2014 when the previous government decided that the allocation would be based on historical rights. This system in Europe has been chosen by two countries, Greece and Malta. So when there is a government and a commitment, of course the system will also pay on the basis of the commitments of an earlier government. We cannot question that. I would like to tell you, therefore, that both the operational programmes for fruit and olive oil and the promotion of agricultural products have been paid and paid. There is, in fact, a great concern, whatever money exists in the fund, to get to the market where there is a great need for liquidity, especially the farmers and farmers who know very well how difficult it is to keep the herds and get to the farm. That's what we're trying to do. That is why we are here, serving the producers and supporting production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much. We move to the second with number 337/4-1-2016, a timely question for the first cycle of the Athens MP Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the reorganization of Athens' urban transport. The Minister will answer Mr. Spirtzis. Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, after I wish you, the ministers and colleagues, and particularly Mr Spirtzi, a good year, I would like to ask him about the problems of Athens' urban transport. We had the hearing of the new administrations a few days ago in the relevant Committee of the European Parliament and there, with official data submitted by the OSCE - which were not disproved by the Minister - shows that in the first quarter of 2015 the urban transport services of Athens had an operational deficit of 25.5 billion euros, while in the respective tenth month of 2014 they had an operating surplus of 3.7 million euros. We have been talking for the same time in two different years, with the same administrations. The same administrations have remained in this period, following a decision or the Minister's tolerance. So, is the Minister asking - and I think it is a matter of common sense - what happened this year, in the first ten months of 2015, so that we have this dramatic deterioration, with the same - I repeat - administrations? Where does the Minister render this worsening? How was the deficit created? Because I imagine that the deficit has been covered somewhere. Incidentally, the Minister should tell us what amount was formed at the end of the year. We should also be told by Mr Spirtzis what moves it will take so that this year's attempt to resolve urban transport, which started with concrete results on the financial aspects of these agencies in 2015, will continue in 2016. Because, obviously, the situation is not going to be rectified, Mr Minister, if it is dealt with with by diving and magical recipes, or by any populist policies. What are you going to do in particular - before that - is the result of the deterioration?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Hatzidakis. You have the floor, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, a good year to everyone! Mr Hatzidakis, I would really like to thank you for the timely question. I understand and will not repeat the revelations made in the Committee on the CECs for the upcoming administrations. You have a reasoning that you are developing in the statement of the timely question. The reasoning is based on the assumption that in 2015 the attempt to restructure Athens' urban transport, which took place in the past three years and was suddenly in 2015 with deficits. Unfortunately, in recent years, there has been no attempt to resolve it. It was an effort to continuously restructure the Urban Transport Organisations, with a view to informing and polite economic consolidation, without planning, without a target for the future and hiding, in a word, through so-called restructuring and mergers. What happened to the substance? There were no mergers or restructurings. I will respond to what you said to me - but I will also develop in my second speech what the consequences of these three years of inertia and virtual reality were - that restructuring was taking place in urban transport. As you know very well, in 2014 we had a great deal of price reduction, but also the time when passengers were able to travel through the single ticket... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I should just like to make a few points so that Parliament can have them. I have the table, which, if you like, I can give you, month - month for 2013, for 2014 and for 2015. It is therefore clear that since the fall in both time and the price of the single ticket to urban transport we have very wide divergences, a very large reduction in the revenues of the agencies. For example, in January 2014 we had 20,022,000 euros, in 2015 we had 18,133,000 euros, in February 2014, 19,79,000 euros and in 2015 we had 17,963,000 euros and so on. This is the situation until September when we have the evidence. The first few months were months of normality, we had neither capital control nor other things. The second, for the past few months, was that we have taken care of and incorporated VAT into the existing price. In other words, while the agencies had the same ticket income without increasing the total price paid by passengers, they absorbed and paid VAT. We therefore have a delay in 2015 that was covered by state aid from the agencies of EUR 22 million. Of course, in this respect we have to say that money is covered, which is about two weeks, of the citizens' free movement - which was a cost - when capital controls were imposed on the country. It is also about the social work of urban transport, such as moving the unemployed, which we have in Athens, because we have free public transport. Of course, the new administrations established in the agencies three days ago will implement the government's policy. We did not have the same luxury as the previous administrations, as, unfortunately, the government's policy was not being implemented and other things were being done. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We believe that from now on we will have another sense of restructuring urban transport and their relationship with society and their social contribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Spirtzi. Mr Hatzidakis has the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you have partly referred to the responsibilities of previous administrations and partly revealed the truth. However, with regard to the alleged responsibilities of the previous administrations, you have to answer us this question: if these 'three-and-a-half' have done so as you are presenting them, why have you kept them for eleven months in this position? Of course, I do not agree because I told you that these administrations themselves had a surplus in 2014 and a deficit in 2015, because the government changed. Here, in fact, it is the second half of your answer. You told us in your own way that you made free moves this summer to the citizens on the occasion of the referendum, obviously because the government wanted to show an alleged philosopher. However, this is a memorial of foreign collision, because you said that in the end a hole of more than EUR 20 million was created, which Greek taxpayers pay for. You told us that, although VAT has increased, you have delayed making the necessary administrative decisions, so the transport deficit has again increased. Here again there are responsibilities, obviously the government. You told us about horizontal integration of the unemployed. Very well. But you did not say that you did not somehow see to it that this hole is being covered in ECHO funds. I think you did not tell us too that many public transport operators too. I don't think you did anything specific, so that these debts would be repaid. Incidentally, the law you passed provides that if there are no 1-1-2016 contracts with the other public bodies, no transport work will be provided to special categories of population. And here, I really am curious, I want to hear what progress has been made on this. Also, curiously, I want to hear what has happened to your law, the n. We voted in October on the restructuring of urban transport. I have three examples: we have the Group's marketing plan, which should have been done already, that is, action and nothing has been started. We have the creation of a single professional audit body under the OSCE for smuggling. The action should have gone ahead and nothing has happened. It should have been prepared for entering only the front door and for action to go ahead and nothing has been done. Generally speaking, Minister, in order not to tire you out of all the actions provided for in this law, nothing has come forward at all. You have to tell us clearly where we are. All right, it is obvious that there has been a serious government inertia for a year now, but at least you need to enlighten the Greek citizens, about what you will do, so that the "hole" of public transport does not become even greater. In fact, leave the populist theories of 'free', because 'babas' did not just die, as they say, but I think it was not born anywhere and of course in this country. Let us implement a serious policy, if we want to have high-level transport, without taxpayers putting every three and a little hand in the pocket.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis. Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor to answer Mr. Hatzidakis' denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President, I just need a little longer, because Mr Hatzidakis has raised many issues and I really need to enlighten this House. Mr. Hatzidakis, I imagine we have a mutual personal appreciation. However, we have political and ideological disagreements, which we also do not hide. In recent months there has been an effort to ensure that the administrations you have placed and the defenders of the neoliberal model, whether this is in the media or elsewhere, to "wash" the public character of urban transport. That's the truth. We want to defend public urban transport, and I will explain why. The one side, the side we oppose and you are defending as a party, is that you want to hit the role of public urban transport. And this role - not only for urban transport, but also for other public bodies - has emerged in times of crisis, such as the capital control. For example, when pensions could not be shared, public post offices shared pensions throughout Greece in three days. When we were able, when the Athenian citizens were surprised, urban transport was able to provide this service. And that, because here we had public transport to do it and not elsewhere. Others, as in Thessaloniki, we had private urban transport and there they were not offered. In fact, they asked for a few million to do the corresponding. The real resolution of urban transport has been struck, when for years all three agencies which have come from mergers of other organizations have been operating party armies of the parties that have ruled, when the axiocracy prevails, when all directors, divisions and all those who have positions of responsibility in these agencies have not been made with judgment, with assessment, but with commissions. You should also be particularly sensitive to these issues as you have declared. So I will reply specifically to the issues you have mentioned, because we really need a three-day conference to reach out to all of these issues. Please indicate that in 2015 we had reduced revenues for a surplus of EUR 3.7 million in the first quarter of 2014. I am presenting you with the audit of the vows that the pre-tax losses amounted to EUR 83,217 000 compared with EUR 21,137,738 in the respective period of last year. It's for 2013-2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u21	The evidence I invoked is public!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u22	The data are of the OSCE, of the previous administrations. I'm telling you the evidence of the vows.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u23	I'm asking you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u24	Wait a minute, Mr. Hatzidakis! I also give you the OSCE report, Mr Dimitriadis. We're going to testify for this. Page 17: State subsidy in 2011 was EUR 159,000,000. 2012 was EUR 197,000. In 2013 it was 158,000 euros. 2014 was 100,000,000 euros. Accordingly, for 2014 we have operational losses less than EUR 3,30 million. In 2015, due to the problems you know, we gave EUR 86 million. Of course, if you read the actual exhibition, which has very nice pictures, shapes, etc., you will see that it is all perfect! The same perfect is the letter from the President of the OSCE - this letter I submitted to the committee - which shows how well it all happened until June 2015. The letter is in June 2015. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I also give you the award that urban transport had received at an event held by the BSE on May 25th. So these communications here are fine. It's actually not good. In other words, in the case of urban transport, and in the way in which the OSCE, STASY and OSH operated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u25	Why didn't you send them away?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u26	I do not know, if you remember, Mr Hatzidakis, at this time we did the following from June to October, if I remember well: we negotiated with the lenders, we held a referendum and elections. And the negotiation took place for what the Samara government had committed itself and had not implemented and for what the people you had put to the agencies have proposed to lenders without any knowledge of the government. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] To confirm this, I give you Mr. Dimitriadis' interview, which states: "In what Mr. Dimitriadis first met the people of Troika. It goes without saying that good personal relations and mutual trust facilitate the negotiations' - it points out - 'and does not deny that these have contributed to the success of the OSCE'. Do you know what the tragic irony is? That the only reason why Minister Christos Spirtzis was set up to justify the expulsion of Dimitriadis is that he was talking a lot with the institutions without informing the government. That's what we made up of. * But here is the table from our own negotiation that shows what Mr Dimitriadis proposed and what we achieved with the negotiation. I'm reading you a few. Drawing up plans from the same London transport company in the action plan he had proposed. I've filed it in the House. Reduction in social benefits and especially those of the unemployed. Maintain volunteer auditors. Establish the transport police. The need for the human potential of urban transport is met by external partners.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u27	We had two governments, yours and Mr. Dimitriadis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u28	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Hatzidakis, wait a minute! I'm serious! We testified to you what Mr. Dimitriadis gave you in the ministry's protocol, not what I had on my computer. I'm telling you exactly what he proposed. Merge of sections of human resources. The need for human resources in the financial segments to be met by external partners. Supervision of the restructuring of urban transport exclusively by such executives. Have a seat, there's a lot of fun. There should be a concentration of powers of all three companies in the face of the president and CEO of the OSCE, i.e. being President and CEO, both in the OSCE and in the SSCE. Chairman of the committee supervising the action plan to be the president and CEO of the OSCE. There should be funding for this committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u30	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u31	There are prison sentences, what we were talking about, execute them. To change the Civil Code, that is, for anyone who doesn't cut a ticket, and so on. I'm presenting it for the Minutes, for any colleague who wants to refer to them. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In two words, let's see... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, I want your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u32	We've already gone four minutes from year to year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u33	I really want to see why we have been under an incredible attack for several months on urban transport. And we can explain that, Mr President, because we in the Ministry do not have communication consultants. Well, in the OSCE, there were...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u34	It's good that you rid us of Dimitriadis's regime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Hatzidakis, it's not a personal matter with Mr. Dimitriadis, it's a political matter. You know Mr. Demetriades well, he was your advisor, and he was also a minister of the Samara government. In his thirty-five years, he was four years of counseling, a private sector manager. I get it. Well, we didn't put consultants, at least ours, we put other people in. I'm asking. Is it resolution that, while you have done OSH and SSH, has it not become an action that unifys and optimises the cost of operating these agencies? There is no central control over procurement, insurance, information system, accounting, advertising revenue, strategies and strategic planning. The result of this is that the group at the end of 2016, a major project of modernisation, the automatic cost-sharing system... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]]
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u36	Please, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u37	I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u38	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u39	I just have ten pages of remarks here about what has not been done in the context of what the previous Samara government claims has done to reorganise and modernise these agencies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u40	Who was the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u41	So, what do we do, Mr. Hatzidakis? You and all the other lovers of this resolution that you have done so many years in urban transport - because citizens know very well, they live and live in their everyday lives, because they used urban transport, lived daily in the years when you ruled decency, bad services, reduced routes and buses and metro, incomplete security and many others - because, therefore, the new administrations have been placed three - four days - and that is why there is only a delay in the actions of action plan and we - to make our self-criticism - have been delayed due to the fact that we have changed these administrations, but we have done so, we will give us few months, to see what the other social person in urban transport, with social sensitivity, with actions that will be sustainable rather than pragmatic from the quality and increase of the public transport, not from'makers'. Thank you so much and a good year. Congratulations on your president.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Spirtzi, and a good year. Don't have any complaints about time. The first under number 342/5-1-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the malfunctions in the area of restaurants and related businesses by how municipal taxes are calculated, is not discussed after consultation of the honourable Member and the relevant Minister. The fifth question under number 333/4-1-2016 of the First Cycle of the Greek Independent Members of Parliament, George Lazarides, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the permanent appointment of the successful philosophers in the competition of ASEP (2008-2009) which is pending is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The third, with number 349/5-1-2016, is a timely question for the first cycle of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of Health, on the "private of Thrace Muslims in the Ministry of Health" notices. The decision of the Conference of Presidents will apply to all of this. The first question under number 343/5-1-2016 will be discussed with the Minister of Health on the intentions of the Ministry of Health to regulate Law 4238/2014 in order to address the problems for doctors of the Greek Ministry of Health and doctors made redundant. The Minister will answer Mr. Xanthos. Mr Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, to link it to the previous one, Mr Minister, usually behind the concepts of'seriousness' and'responsibility' are hidden in the ideological position of the previous governments, wherever serious and responsible, cynicism and analgesia. And there are no concepts behind it, there are facts hidden. Dismissals, caratosis and lifting of public goods. That is why I am linking it, so that we can get here on a sacred subject, the subject of work. In an evening with the n4238/2014 five thousand people were found in the void, in the international waters of an unjust, inequality, arbitrary, illegal, anti-constitutional decision, which basically had the idea of the smaller and less state and not the most effective and beneficial to the citizen of the state, the looting of neoliberalism, the disappearance of every concept of public good. We are talking about health care at primary level. The "black" in the IKA and the protection of the unskilled, unemployed, homeless, uninsured is essentially referred to in the bells with a clear class mark. Do you have any money? You're alive. Don't you have any money? To the place of cartilage and refreshment. For all those who ran bizarrely in the external medical professions, to heal their own people, their friends, their brothers, their parents, their relatives, their neighbors. Therefore, the issue that we are discussing about the reintegration of the doctors, dentists of the former IKA - EPPY now - the National Health Network - is firstly a question of restoring democratic principles and values, lifting an arbitrary, unfair, illegal, unconstitutional dismissal. At the same time, we must re-establish ourselves, in essence in the hands of experienced doctors and dentists of the former IKA, formerly EEA, now PES, primary health care. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The injustice against doctors who chose full and exclusive employment, according to the abstract law of the PEDY, in 4238, who operated since March 2014, which, according to his prediction, should have completed his crises, namely the wage integration of doctors, dentists of the former IKA - EPPOY with the doctors of the HSH -, unfortunately remains. A total of two and a half thousand doctors remained in Greece and three thousand were fired. Of the two and a half thousand who have remained, 50% of them remain with court decisions and open doctors, while the other 50% of doctors remain with closed doctors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of the three thousand who were made redundant, they are currently working on the four hundred dismissals, having returned to the service with insurance measures, which, Minister, have been unpaid for eight to twenty months. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Nine additional doctors, full-time and exclusive, have been declared in Greece. They only showed interest in a hundred and seventy doctors, i.e. the new doctors turned their back on that particular pedophile form...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u44	Please, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u45	I'm closing, Mr. President. ...the full and exclusive employment of the destructive n. 4238, which was a counterfeiting of the central axis of our policy. As a consequence of the previous policies, the deliberate and conscious disintegration and disintegration of the ESS, it is to have the ESS today on the limits of survival and a primary care that calms, situations with nails and teeth attempting daily political leadership of the Ministry of Health, Xanthos and Paulakis, doctors, nursing staff, are struggling to face, in order to keep the ESS, the ESS which we owe it - to tell his memory - his founder, Giorgos Gennimata and the Madam of the Minister for Health and, of course, the man who presided it and honoured it as minister and as professor, Mr. Cremastinos, so that this network of protection can be his elbow and defend the fundamental good of health for millions of our fellow people, incapable, homeless, homeless, homeless, homeless people, who have a long-stayed people with long-term health care. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I ask the question and I will come back to my dentistry: is there a political will to restore the eagle of 4238, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u46	In your dentistry, please, the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u47	Is the political will and how exactly can it be done with the re-entry, in the formats that have been proposed to us, proposed by the five thousand doctors from the former IKA, the former EEA, now PES?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Blonde has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u49	Dear colleague, thank you for the question. Indeed, it highlights a crucial problem that has arisen in the field of primary care after n. 4238. Primary care was the weak link of the health system over time. It has been the big health policy deficit for the past twenty years. There was a distorted system, I mean the system built up under the IKA, a system that had vertically integrated services of primary, secondary and even higher care, without interconnecting with the National Health System. This distortion had to end. So the need for unified primary health care was evident. The point is that the intervention which has been made has also been done in the wrong context and in the wrong way. Because despite invoking the principles of the World Health Organisation, the declaration of Alma Ata, the definitive definition of WHO health, etc., the aim was, in fact, to serve the Memorandum, to reduce structures, the availability of thousands of staff, the redundancies of part of them and the reduction in public health expenditure in general. However, it was wrongly done, meaning the suffocating and extortional timelines that were set at the time, so that a large part of the doctors who were out of the system could get out of the system out of the system at that time into the structures of the EEA. Of the five and a half thousand, only two and a half thousand in one way or another remained in the system. Of these, as you rightly said, there are about three hundred doctors under full-time and full-time status today and under arrangements that we have already tabled and are expected to vote very soon, we are stepping up and wage-based and graduating, and we are assimilating them to the status of doctors in the ERC. There is also an important category - it is about 40% - which maintains multiple levels of industrial relations either having won insurance measures and having applied for membership or gained insurance measures without having applied for membership. There are multiple categories that need to be consolidated. [[At this point, the bell rings the end of the speaking time of the Minister]] Let me say this, Mr President: The strategic response to the time-consuming problems of the health system and the structural and universal coverage of the population and to the documented practice of medicine and quality care in our view is the reorganisation of the health system focusing on primary care. So this is what the other model is working on and I think that very soon we will be able to present its details. It is a model that treats primary care not only as a prescribing ability to prescribe medicines, refer to examinations or even to regulate and monitor the suffering, but has as its core the logic of the family doctor, who has a population of responsibility, whom he monitors, overall has the responsibility of managing the health problems of the citizen, who trusts him with prevention, vaccination, pre-symptoms control, health care, reference to other levels of the health system, treatment and rehabilitation. That's another perception. It is another model of care, in our view perfectly compatible with the core of primary health care. For this model, we hope to succeed this year and have a pilot run in four, five selected urban areas of the country. The question is, what about the rest of the disorganized landscape, as you rightly said, in primary care. We therefore believe that the choice that will be made should be part of the overall plan, to serve this project. We believe that today's public structures do need to be upgraded. We want to prioritise their laboratories, and we have a plan at this time and in the first and second RES, which is edited with the logic of the concentration of laboratory tests, the creation of a reference laboratory, which will carry out the most rare and precise tests, thereby achieving economies of scale and making more rational use of human resources and resources. It will be strengthened by the announcements of permanent medical and nursing staff and we are also in consultation with the Government, based on the distribution for 2016, of a large proportion of the hirings in the health sector to be directed to primary care. Of course, my dear colleague, we want - and I come to the essence of the question - to deal with this pending issue, giving a second chance, but on the basis of specific needs, specialities and specific structures and the prospect of unification of labour relations at the end of 2016. In other words, our intention is to allow, in a short period of transition, doctors who, in various ways, such as insurance measures, etc., are in a position to remain unresolved and to return to the prospects of their full integration into a system of primary care, with a single employment relationship with full and exclusive employment. This is our political will and we believe that, on the basis of this year's recruitment potential, we will look at the details and in the next few years there will be the corresponding political initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. I have the honour to inform the House of Mr Anna Karamanlis' request to the President of Parliament to be granted a short-day leave for personal reasons, from Friday 15 January to Tuesday 19 January, in the absence of her abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u51	The House approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-five students and students and two teachers - attendants from the Second Gymnasium of Kiatos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, distorted, but it was working. Of course, "he tells the bride to hear it from the mother-in-law" - and I refer to the previous ones. Remember Tito Patricio who said that "when the eye hurts, you don't take it off, you put drops." And that was about what I said: cynicism and analgesia. Where you hear "seriousness", "responsibility", from behind, underneath the dresses of seriousness and responsibility, cynicism and analgesia are hidden. Blonde and Paul are doing a huge job at the Ministry night, because with much less money they have to keep upright structures. Those who have visited public hospitals - because they have no money to go to private hospitals, as there is another story, it is classic - they know and know heroic nurses and doctors. He's a nurse for a hundred and two hundred outpatients in external medical and on-call. Mr Minister, we must be clear. This primary health care system when will it be made? Five to six years? We must now take a stand on redundancies. The immediate lifting of redundancies is not only a question of restoring and providing work. It's a question of democratic order at the same time. I can understand it. Three thousand ERT fired for two years, still fired, have not been restored. We must tell them clearly and immediately that we have a lifting of redundancies in a visible, concrete timetable and then we have the option of direct reinforcement of public structures, of immediate reintegration and rehabilitation, and at the same time - where? - to persons with disabilities and to persons with disabilities. Moreover, all those in the field can redefinite their working relationships, i.e. they can choose either a person of the IP or a person of the IP, with the right to a medical degree without wage-free consent with the ESA or full-time and full-time, but with full-time rights, as well as with the ESA. I think that for what you said by the end of 2016, they should choose, or Jesus or Barabbas, or PAA, a complete simulation, closure of the medicine. This is very clear, because this is an axis on which our policy is based. From there on, you must see, my Minister, the peculiarity that exists only in the third and fourth Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace - there to see empathy - with an unrecognised, punishing, vengeful and vengeful avenger for their anarchist disobedience to the destructive law. All those who appealed to court were not judged, even if some of them had shut down their doctors and never reopened them. The third and fourth FYROMs are still punished until today. There's a financial benefit. They tell us, and we need to see, look at it, give persuasive answers. The economic benefit arises as follows: The doctors involved within the EDD cost around EUR 2,000 mixed monthly and examine only two hundred incidents. Usually in the first week of each month, they have completed their events and function as non-contradictory, so patients after the first week of each month do not find conclusive doctors. The PETE doctors also cost about 2,000 euros mixed each month and examine twenty - six patients a day for twenty - two days a month, that is, five hundred seventy - seventy - seventy cases. Moreover, the upgrading of the Agency's laboratories - you referred to them, microbiologically, radiologically - contributes to lowering the overall cost, as these laboratories are managed by doctors of the EMCDDA, but they are primarily proposed by the doctors of the EMCDDA to patients, so that they do not go to private laboratories. Even if we add the salary bills, the operating costs of the buildings of the CEDEFOP, i.e. the units of the former IKA building, even in this case the total cost per patient is multiplely lower than a private provider. Minister, it has been shown that you have the political will. Let's hurry, not to the unknown boat of hope, not to five to six years, not ideological searches. In practice we have to say specific things to the people who experienced the commemorative cannibalism of a neoliberal necklace and storm that destroyed their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Xanthi, you have the floor to answer Mr. Triantafylides' dentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u54	My dear colleague, the health system has been under very heavy pressure and disorganization in recent years. The practical consequence, the practical effect of all these negative interventions was what is called the ‘passive privatisation of the system’, i.e., without in fact administrative privatisation, due to the lack of the system a large part of the citizens have as their choice to pay out of their pocket, seeking services in the private sector. This was particularly the case in primary care. As I said to you before, the answer today to the health crisis and the health problems of the health system is, on the one hand, the attempt to stabilise the system, to stop the downward trend and to disorganise public structures. We believe that with the interventions we have done to strengthen it with human resources and its increased funding in 2016, we will achieve this very soon, in the first half of 2016. At the same time, however, the big bet is to reorganise the system, to make a major reform and to primary care - which is the first priority - both in the administration of the system and in the way of supplies of the health system and in mental health, etc. It has also been said by the Prime Minister that reform in primary care, the basic principles of which I mentioned earlier, will be one of the four - five major reforms that this government must do. My dear colleague, we must be clear. Reforms are not done with the materials of yesterday, with the attitudes of yesterday, with the conventions of yesterday. They must be done on another basis, with another vision, with another perception that is compatible with the philosophy of primary care. I told you that the previous system had been distorted and we cannot rethink the reintroduction to it. Of course you're telling me it was distorting but at least it worked, it offered some services. Obviously, these services are gone. It is these services today that we replace them with more quality care to ensure continuity from prevention to treatment for the rehabilitation, in the logic of family doctors, decentralised structures, close to workplaces, subdivided services, cross-sectoral intervention by a health group, the Community guidance of services. It is another culture that wants further training of human resources in primary care. Let me say that he also wants another education in society, because society and citizens have become addicted for many years to a primary care model that operated with the logic of the services market, either earlier with the health booklet - especially the public - or now with the ability of the system to go to contracted doctors and workshops each according to their will, without diligence, without diligence, without care and buying services from the system and of course charging the state and the EEA. This cannot go on. It's a distortion. So let's go make another model. He wants another example. And that wants inspiration, it needs vision, and of course it needs to be in touch with that particular reality. Because we are at risk, if we are simply announcing a vision which is not based on today's speeches and which does not continue with the landscape which must slowly be upgraded, it is still a nice plan that is closed to the drawers of the Ministries such as many previous projects. The President of Parliament will remember many times that there had been plans for primary care. In my opinion, the political reason why they never went forward was that there was an inalienable agreement from the political system that this area of primary care is privilegedly allocated to the private sector to invest and, in particular, to the business sector. That is why we have reached this point of disorganization. Our political will is to reverse this situation and indeed to redirect public resources towards public structures by strengthening their workshops, strengthening them with new staff and doctors trained in the logic of family doctors and primary care and with experienced staff, such as colleagues who have been serving in recent years and in my view, I repeat, poorly expelled and a second chance to join, but clearly that they will be in a prospect of unified labour relations, not "either". Uniform working relationships without suffocating timetables, with the margins of each being able to weigh on the remuneration of the public health system. We offer the possibility of full wage and graduation simulation with the doctors of the ERC. We think that this is in the country's budgetary data for a decent choice now, and I believe that this will be understood and we will be able to move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u55	Thank you. But I also have to say that for 15 years, since I spent the Ministry of Health, there has been a law on postgraduate education for doctors and nurses. Of course, graduates are the responsibility of the university. Mr. Kourublis as Minister has brought him back to the House. I even told him to hurry, because whoever brings this law quickly leaves the ministry. It's a damn law. In any case, between serious and funny, bring this law - we would be happy to help get a serious job - because when the doctor and the nurse are not modern, the health system is also financially burdened. We must not leave it at the mercy of conferences, because, as you know, the number of conferences in the country is tens greater than the one in the rest of Europe. Well, the conferences need to be taken by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, the KESY or whoever you want, so that there can be genuinely informing the doctors or, if you like, postgraduate programs that will financially help the best quality of health services.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u56	If I may, Mr President, say this: this is the great investment that needs to be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u57	Oh, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u58	...in the medical potential, the scientific potential of the country, and it is the only way to reverse the migratory current, this terriblebrain drain of exceptional scientific staff towards the countries of the North, which is threatening with complete integration the public hospitals and the health system and the health system of our country in the years to come. I think that what we need to offer young doctors is upgraded medical education and continuing medical education and post-training, because obviously at this juncture we cannot offer them upgraded fees, but that is what I fully agree is pending. There is a draft, we will work on it in consultation with the medical associations and we will bring forward a proposal in general to upgrade medical education and specialties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u59	I agree, except that the burden of those who do not really have such much to do with what is said - let the expression - an involvement in health, which is a fact that exists, there is no doubt about it. Thank you very much. After that, we proceed to the second question, with number 338/4-1-2016, on the second time question by MP Chios of the New Democracy, Panagiotis Mitarakis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the outstanding costs of feeding refugees to the professionals on the island of Chios. In this connection, I would like, Minister, Mr Musala, to comment on the request by the Mayor of Kos, which calls for a grant for Kos, similar to the other islands. I told you so, if you have anything younger, you can tell us. Mr. Metarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first, good year, good power in 2016. I want to hope that 2016 will be for the country and for the refugee and migration current a better year. I tabled this timely question, giving rise to the letter sent to you by the Chamber of Chios, which has received a series of complaints from members active in the field of focusing and complaining about accumulated debts, which exist to them for the feeding of refugees and migrants. You realise, Minister, that these are small and medium-sized enterprises. As small and medium-sized enterprises have, especially after credit controls, very limited access to borrowing, so the possibility for them to finance for several months is very difficult. I understand that action has been taken and I would like you, first of all, to confirm that these people have finally been paid for the debts, which have existed since April 2015. Secondly, if you wish, Minister, more importantly, I would like to ask if the funds for 2016 have been secured, if the necessary procedures have been set in 2016, so that - as you know - migration flows continue, we do not have the same problem of repeating every month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u61	Thank you. The Deputy Minister, Mr Muzalas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u62	Good year, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Happy New Year to everyone. Mr Metarakis, I would like to thank you for the style and way in which you put your question, because the way it was written was a nuisance. But thank you very much for your oral question. As you know, I keep this issue low, outside of opposition, out of crowns, out of anything and I'm glad that you put it that way too. So I want to tell you that we are talking about a problem that was created in October 2013. I was already in the service government when I remember Mr. Macrykitrios - who I think comes from your party - to fight for how to solve this thing. So it's a problem that comes from the old. There are things that one might say. I always get the version that we can both accept. It is a problem that has arisen from bureaucratic reasons. There was a disagreement between a Vice-President and a Commissioner of the Court of Auditors whether these assignments should be competitive or may be directly. This continued for about a year and a half. As you can see, no one can intervene in the judiciary as a government. The SYRIZA Government legislated in March at Law No.4320 and the provision was found to be legally inadequate - so I do not know if I am telling you it correctly - and it has been unable to move forward. The problem has therefore remained. There have been objections, solutions have been made by both previous governments and by the SYRIZA Government and since I am a minister. We now have a decision from the Court of Auditors, which came out on 19 November, to be cleaned up and given us a few days ago. I'll testify to her in the Minutes to get her. This decision solves the problem for the benefit of your request. We are in the enactment process, and the competitions are already running, so that the procedures can be lawful, this concern expressed on the next. I just want to tell you that it is not about refugees, it is all about pre-experienced centres. That's the problem. It concerns illegal immigrants, who are in custody. We are talking about a cost of EUR 5,87 per day per capita, which has been around EUR 8 million so far. I think that the professionals involved in this story will be relieved in the next period of time and that there will be no new involvement in the way things were done. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u63	You have the floor, Mr. Mitarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much for your reply. I am very pleased to see that this problem that concerns several small and medium-sized enterprises will be resolved quite soon. I would just like you to confirm in your dentext that the sums you mentioned as accumulated debts have been provided for in the 2016 budget so that there is no problem with the General Accounting Office of the State - the Minister responsible from the Ministry of Finance is here - to pay these amounts. If I may, Minister, because we have referred to issues relating to Chios, I would like to ask you two very brief questions. First of all, do you know that the Municipality of Chios at the last meeting of the Municipal Council, at which I myself attended, approved the contract with the Ministry of Interior for the concession of BIAL to become a centre for the registration of refugees? This is why the municipality is going to enter into a loan with commercial banks, so the citizens of Chios will take the risk of the loan. I know that some money has been given by the Ministry of Interior, which will facilitate the payment of the first instalment. I would like to ask whether there has been a debate with the Ministry, whether there is provision in the next few years for the Chios Municipality and the funds it needs to be given to enable the Chios Municipality to repay the VIAL with the instalments it has to give in the next two years. Secondly, I would like to raise a point which I raised during your visit to Chios. You mentioned the government's intention to appoint on every island a coordinator. This is very important. There are too many practical issues, which concern co-responsible ministries, local government and to a second and second level, concerning the Armed Forces, the Port. We all agree that we need a coordinator. When you came to Chios, if I remember correctly in November, you said you would try to do so by the end of the year - if not at the beginning of 2016. I would like to ask whether there is progress on this, if you are prepared to define the structure and the persons responsible for coordination and they will also help in practical matters, such as what we are discussing today with the timely question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u65	Thank you too, Mr. Metarakis. Mr Muzala, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Metarakis, you surrounded me. You took me from here, you took me from there, but you're entitled, I'm not questioning that. With the Mayor of Chios, we have excellent cooperation and interpersonal relations. There have been disagreements, there have been conflicts - always so - but there has been common sense. Problems have been solved. No'some money' has been given over 200 000 euros. We're in charge, and we're committed to our obligations. I saw your mayor yesterday. There's no problem with how we go about these things. Much more, if you want my personal opinion, it is also an example of how a mayor, in a difficulty, exploits this difficulty, not to clash, but to solve the problem now and get a "private" for his city and for the inhabitants afterwards. It's really something great about what happened in Chios.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u67	Is the Ministry going to give the other two doses?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u68	I don't know how to answer exactly. I know we've agreed on everything. It's over, that's all. You can confirm it. The other thing I want to tell you is that I had really said that the coordinators, if they haven't been placed by the end of the year, will have been placed inside January. It's a process that goes ahead, it's complex. I think if you're asking the question again the first week of February, I'll be able to answer you with names. Mr President, and also respected my teacher - you are not so great, I am just late - for Kos I have taken very seriously into account what you have said to me. The direction is that we do not have any punishment policy in Kos, for our unacceptable attitude to the mayor on a specific subject. The analogous procedures have therefore been followed, followed on the other islands. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. I do not know, Mr Muzala, whether you should see the Mayor of Kos, accept him and discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u70	Look, Mr President, I think I have done something that no Minister would have done. First of all, something we forget is that I am a Minister for four months. I've seen the Mayor of Kos four times. Once I took Abrahamopoulos and Timerman. I went for the fifth time and the Mayor of Kos was gone. The problem is not to see the Mayor of Kos. He wrote a letter, I think it was insulting to me. I said that as Minister I must have the doors open. So let me see both one and two and three times the Mayor of Kos. The question is to solve the problem of Kos. Watching the mayor say these things to me, saying those, then saying other things, then I say other things, doesn't matter. I believe the Minister has to solve problems and have the door open. So my door's open. The move must be from the mayor. But it's open to find a solution, not again to be involved in this story.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, I hope that this problem will be solved. We move to the third with number 334/4-1-2016 a top-level question for the Attica of Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Finance regarding the imposition of a luxury tax on luxuries cars. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Alexiadis. Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to wish you, the Minister, my dear colleagues and those who attend this Chamber, many years, good, creative, peaceful and politically fertile year. As far as my question is concerned, Minister, demographic is still one of the biggest problems facing our country and let me stress that its approach is a priority for us. The number of births has declined dramatically in recent years, also due to the economic crisis. According to the Hellenic Statistical Authority, for the first time since 1921 the births in Greece have been below the limit of 100,000. In 2013 it was only ninety - four thousand - four, and deaths were one hundred ten thousand seven hundred ninety - four. In the year 2014, births decreased to ninety - two thousand forty - eight. At the same time, the Greek family who studied with sacrifices and deprivations of her children is now seeing them new, extremely equipped, migrating abroad. The above data make the demographic situation a nightmare. Multitude families, who are strongly opposed to the eventuality, belong to the most vulnerable groups in society and with the current difficult economic situation, are ruthlessly affected. In the context of my resignation to support multiple families, I have tabled the timely question about the removal of luxury tax from laundry cars. More specifically, by means of the provisions of the Treaty. 4111/2013 Article 44 and Law 4172/2013 Article 31 introduces a luxury living tax for 2,000 et seq. "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development", "production" or "use" of equipment specified in 1C001.a., 1C010.b., 1C010.c. or 1C010.b., 1C010.c. or 1C010.c.; This provision does not provide for an exception to the multitude which, as a matter of urgency and not of luxury for the service of the many members of their family, bought such cars. For example, a multitude family is forced by de facto to take place if it has four children, seven if it has five children and so on. In view of the protection of luxuries and of the special care provided for them, Minister, under the provisions of Article 21(2) and (5) of the Constitution, you first asked what was the number of luxuries, at the expense of which luxuries tax was imposed in 2014 and 2015, and what amount the State's revenues amounted to the collection of that tax. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, a little bit of your tolerance. My second question is, if you intend to lift this unfair and unconstitutional regulation, by exempting lots of luxury tax imposed on them for 2,000 people. As regards the second part of the question, I should like to point out that the Commission has already taken a number of measures which have been taken by the Member States in the field of justice and home affairs. Finally, without wanting to abuse your time, let me say that the Independent Greeks are solidaritys and we will continue to fight to create better conditions for the multiple families, which are the pillars of Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Katsiki. Mr Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, Mr Papoutsis, a good year for me to all and good power. I feel really embarrassed to answer this question, because it is one of the characteristic examples of the injustice of the Greek tax system to the citizens for two main reasons. Instead of motivating the multiples and supporting them through the tax system for the important problems they have and for their significant contribution to Greek society, we are unfortunately burdening them. Instead of motivating tax justice and making the citizen an ally in the fight against tax evasion, smuggling and corruption, we turn the citizen against the state with such moves. So we must immediately take measures and reverse this situation. With regard to the numbers you requested by your question - and I will submit the two documents in the Minutes to have a full picture - in the year 2013 the number of statements with a number of protected children over four and a luxurious living tax for the possession of cars over 1,928 et seq. There were three thousand nine hundred forty. The year 2014 was 3.077. Accordingly, the total related luxury living tax for holding such cars in 2013 was EUR 2.101,826 and in 2014 was EUR 1.673,923. From an estimate of service factors, this reduction is due to the fact that many multitudes had to deposit their signs, depriving their families of a basic movement tool. Because we don't talk about a luxury car that the other guy wants to go out to do on his weekend, like we said in French, in the village, to show that he has a lot of money. We're talking about a situation where the other guy goes to cover his basic need and they've been forced and deposited by signs, losing the public valuable revenue from VAT, from gasoline, from income tax to car workshops and a number of other such charges. What we are planning, as Ministry of Finance, is the changes in income tax that will come in 2016 and will relate to a number of unfair interventions or situations, which have often been identified in Parliament from all sides, to restore this injustice, to set such criteria, because another thing is the multitude that has a huge income and must be subject to a luxury living tax on certain criteria, and another thing is the multitude that has an elementary income and that car puts a higher tax burden on it. Because this is a concrete example of the fact that a tool for the citizen from an indirect taxation situation, such as the presumptions or this one, which should lead to tax justice, unfortunately leads to tax injustice.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u76	Minister, I would like you to allow me to express my pleasure because we fully agree on what has been and on what has been the subject of my question to you, because in your reply you are basically satisfied with this fair and legitimate request from the trousers. Of course, you said "within 2016" and I would ask you very much to do it at the beginning of this year, so that we can contribute to the relief of this sensitive multi-purpose population. I am sure that it will be a sign of good social policy against those anxes of the past and that it will be properly appreciated by the multitude who really need it. It will be - and I would like to believe - the principle of implementing other arrangements that will help to relieve these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. Minister, would you like to have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, for a little while, let me say a few words. Without any mood of populism or easy announcements, we are really trying in 2016 to go to changes in all the taxes that will make the tax system fairer, more proportionate and more effective. In this sense, we are also considering such changes. However, to be specific, these changes must be made when these equivalent measures are found, so that they can replace these revenues or when we can find other sources of taxation, where we will help some categories of citizens, but we will carry the tax burden somewhere else. That's where the Treasury is targeted, and that's what he's trying to do. I would like to stress once again that the law with which this tax was imposed is not a law of 2016, but it is - as you quite rightly say - the laws of 2013. And I say this, because sometimes whatever we say or answer to the House, some - not all - reproduce the well-known logic of disaster. And in order that no title should come out this evening or tomorrow in the newspapers that the SYRIZA - ANEL or Alexiadis government has set up a 2013 law, which, unfortunately, we still have to implement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-11-S1-commons.u80	With the consent of the House at 19.39 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, January 12, 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
