ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[(b) "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament in accordance with Rule 3A of Part II of the Rules of Procedure" (b) "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament from 15 to 11 August 2016 (Law on the Functioning of the Commission under Rule 3A of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament")]] Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the agenda of the legislative work, I have a communication to this House. The Standing Committees on Production and Trade and Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submit their report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘New scheme for the support of power plants from Renewable Energy and High Performance Electricity and Heat production - Provisions for the legal and operational separation of supply and distribution sectors in the natural gas market and other provisions’. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 5 August 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1146/18-7-2016 topical question by MP Halkidiki of New Democracy Mr. Georgios Vagionas to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the delay in the release of funds for the prevention of fires. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1137-12-2016 topical question by Congressman Pireos of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the dinner presented by the Turkish Prime Minister's son with illegal immigrants and refugees of Muslim religion. 3. The 1141/18-7-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on excessive bank charges for electronic interbank transactions. 4. The 1160-19-7-2016 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the withdrawal of the decision to reduce professional schools (EPC) Mytilini. 5. The 1143/18-7-2016 topical question by MP 2 Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the future of the Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ). 6. The question, under number 1149/18-7-2016, is a timely question by MP II Athens of the Association of Centres Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the long-term delay in the activation of a procedure for the enforcement and recovery of neighbouring municipalities, a municipal tax, which is borne by the airport "Eleftherios Venizelos". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction regarding the immediate adoption of a Joint Ministerial Decision declaring the affected areas of Arcadia in an emergency. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1142/18-7-2016 topical question of the Member of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister of Finance, on the termination of the unfair exclusion from the work of the employees of the Evian Cooperative Bank. 3. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the progress of the projects for the development of the former airport of Greece. 4. The 1122/11-7-2016 topical question of Attica of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on criminal and terrorist organisations that act undisturbed at the most central point in the capital. 5. The question by No. 1095/5-7-2016 was raised by MP B' Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the position of Vice President of the Centre for Security Studies. 6. The 1120/11-7-2016 topical question by MP A'Thessaloniki of the Union of Central Banks Mr Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the fire protection system of the Sheikh Sou. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 1097/6-7-2016 by the Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the lack of politics in defending the health of citizens. 8. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance and National Defence about the Greek Vehicle Industry (‘ELB.O.B.E.’). 9. Under number 1042-24-2016, a topical question by MP II Athens of Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the extrajudicial compromise of the Greek State with the "SIEMENS". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about bilateral relations with Iran. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 4375/304/31-3-2016 - Application for Documents received by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the financial size of the contract with Kim Glen. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health about the design for the start of the multi-powered Iatrician Tymbakis - Heraklion Crete. 4. The 3062/10-2-2016 question by the Independent MEP Mr Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance about the compensation of the Partners of Cooperative Banks. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Resolution of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism on the draft law on the award of concession contracts — Harmonisation with Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concessions (OJ L 94/1/28.3.2014) and other provisions. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted and the whole as distributed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u2	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u3	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u4	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u5	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u6	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u7	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u8	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u9	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u10	The bill was accepted by a majority and by the whole. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: ‘Revision and execution of concession contracts — Harmonisation with Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts (OJ L 94/1/28.3.2014) and other provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u12	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering today's bill. Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘New scheme of support for power plants from Renewable Energy Sources and Co-production of High Performance Electricity and Heat - Provisions for the legal and operational separation of supply and distribution sectors in the natural gas market and other provisions’. The above bill, following a decision taken by the Standing Parliamentary Committee on Production and Trade by a majority, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would like to remind you that in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents on 3-8-2016, the debate on the principle and the articles will be concluded in a meeting of up to 14.30 seconds to follow, if requested, a roll-call vote. That decision was also taken by a majority. The rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and one of their representatives are involved in the debate. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I also propose that, following a decision taken yesterday at the Conference of Presidents, it was an idea of the President of this House, which we accepted to have a more extensive debate - and a speaker from each parliamentary group, beyond the two rapporteurs and special speakers, as the parties have appointed them, is given the floor. Finally, I propose that the debate on the principle and the articles should be uniform. As far as time is concerned, the rapporteurs and the special rapporteurs are concerned, the competent Minister, 13 minutes, the other ministers and the Secretarys - if they want to take part in the debate - eight minutes, the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, and the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group 14 minutes, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups twelve minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives ten minutes and the speakers appointed by the parties five minutes. We've summed up time, with a little tolerance, anyway, if it takes about 14.30 hours by 15.00 hours the time will be over. He therefore asks whether he agrees with the proposal of the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u13	The House therefore agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u14	The House did not agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u15	How did he not agree? Your party at the Conference of Presidents yesterday agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u16	In an emergency, no. It's for the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u17	I'm talking about the procedure, Mr. Kutsuko. I said urgently - you did not notice - that it was by a majority. I'm talking about today's process. We agree. The other one is recorded. But that's not what I meant. So we'll do this: It's a request from Mr. Friend who wants to leave...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I have asked you to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u19	On what subject?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u20	On urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u21	Okay. You'll be placed. From what I've seen, it's to talk. You are a Parliamentary Representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u22	Now I want to speak, Mr. Kaklamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u23	Let's not waste time. I said you objected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u24	First you want to vote and then we have to have the debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u25	What are we supposed to talk about? We don't have anything to discuss. The committee responsible and the Conference of Presidents has decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u26	The House decides, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u27	All right, I'll give you the floor for two minutes, but we'll serve Mr. Friends first, who actually serves the debate, because it will be placed. Mr. Philly, do you want the time that's on you, like, eight minutes or less?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u28	It will certainly take eight minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u29	All right, but because we give you exceptional time, please keep the eight minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you are all following the statements made by various French politicians, including the French Prime Minister, about Islam and the new relationship that France must have with him. In February 2015, Austria passed a new law on Muslim communities in place of an older one, whose roots arrive in the Austro-Hungarian Empire, when the Ashburg emperor ruled important Muslim populations in the Balkans. But also in the Netherlands and Germany, the debate on the relationship between Muslim populations and the Dutch and German society, respectively, is becoming more and more intense. In England, all the provisions of Islamic law on a number of issues - particularly hereditary matters - seem to be implemented through a parallel judicial system, let us say so, a system. All these discussions, but also legislative initiatives, are trying to respond mainly to three issues: firstly, who finances mosques, secondly who forms the religious workers of Islam and, thirdly, what is the relationship of Islamic law with Europe's rightful culture? But the real elephant is in the room and there's another one. Europe has not accepted the fact that Muslims are a reality and are here. Most are European citizens or legal immigrants and in Europe they have found safety for their lives and families, dignity and opportunities for a better future. Some say that building a mosque in Athens will be a pole of attraction for Muslims. They protested and protested strongly because there are many Muslims and so Islamized, they say, our homeland. If the mosques were attraction for Muslims, then no Muslim would have come to Athens. They'd all be in Thrace, Rhodes, Kos. The attraction is economic opportunities, and that is why the pursuit of the Golden Dawn to reduce immigrants became a reality in the years of the crisis. Poverty and economic destruction have brought down migrants. That is why atypical prayer areas are estimated to have fallen by at least 40%. Would you like a 'clean' - within introductory - country? Look around who the clean countries are and tell the Greek people the truth. It is only the poor countries. It is only the countries in which no one wants to go. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that the national wars to which Europe was leading are relatively recent in relation to religious wars. That is why the Pope hastened on the occasion of the priest's massacre in France, for which we all declare our disgrace, to clarify that we are at war, but not in religious war. This is the elephant, ladies and gentlemen, and we must see him in time and do our best to ensure that what is sought by the fundamentalists of the ISIS or Bravik, that is, not to live in a religious war. In particular, we in Greece, which is the sum of the two worlds, know very well that if such a war occurs, we will be among those who will pay the most expensive price. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has given its answers to the three main questions I mentioned above. In the first question of jams, in 2000, she passed a law following the then-tainted concepts in Europe, granting an area to Pain in order to build a large Islamic centre within which it would also operate a mosque. This centre would be built with money from foreign countries and run by foreign countries. The law was passed because the issue was linked to the Olympic Games and raised as a question about the religious freedom of our Muslim fellow citizens. It was adopted but was not implemented. This is not the time to analyse the reasons, but let us keep in mind that the church first had raised the question of what exactly this Islamic centre will be, who will finance it and who will run it. In 2006, our country made a new choice. He voted for a new law giving the right answer to that question. It decided that the Athens mosque should be built with the money of the Greek state and administered by a board of directors, the majority of which will be made up of representatives of the state. I understand that this arrangement goes beyond the limits of religious freedom, but the red line, that is, the violation of religious freedoms, we will not go through it and move on to the necessary design so that the delicate balances are respected. Our country has also decided - and it has made it quite clear by amending Law 3512 in 2011 - that both the space and the mosque will belong to the Greek state and are not given to anyone. It is also worth noting that the Church of Greece, on both Macarist Christodoulou and Makarios Jerusalem, was always in line with the construction of the mosque under specific conditions that would ensure that it would act as a mosque within the Greek law and not as an island outside the Greek law controlled by foreign centres and capital. These conditions were met by the legislator in 2006. I have to tell you that all Prime Ministers since 1894, when there was the first debate on a mosque in Athens, were positive and agreed on its construction, even Metaxas and Papadopoulos. Constantine Karamanlis promised the Arabs to make an international commitment to the country. Andreas Papandreou did the same, and so did the discussions at the time concerned an area in Maroussi. Kostas Simitis passed the first law on its construction in Painiana. Kostas Karamanlis was given the most correct solution, the one that we are following today with Law 3512/2006, which Marietta Giannakou supported. On George Papandreou, the first amendment of Law 3512 was passed to resolve a series of bureaucratic issues. On our own government, on Alexis Tsipras, Panagiotis Lafazanis and Aristides Baltas, competent ministers, brought the second amendment and we now the third. So one question arises: Since the fundamental features of Law 3512 on the establishment and operation of the mosque of Athens, including its location, but also its square meters, have not changed, why did three amendments of the law need today? Why should Parliament vote - with more and more majorities, it is the truth - on amendments to the law? The answer to this question, ladies and gentlemen, highlights the multiple pathogens of the administration and the way in which we plan and implement the solutions. While central political choices are correct and are not questioned, the other parameters raise a number of practical and bureaucratic issues that come to the point of questioning the implementation of central political decisions itself. We are already voting on two decisions today. We are voting, among other things, that the single plot is divided into two parts and we are demarcating a road between them. Why does the House vote for that? Is that a political matter? But we are asking for it to be voted on, because if it is not voted on, then the ordinary procedure will last years and we will have lost the opportunity to manage properly and in the best way for the national interest and social cohesion, the problem posed by the existence of two hundred thousand Muslims in Athens. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not want to have the problems of countries like France or Belgium, we do not want to make the mistakes they have made and now they are looking for ways to reconstruct them. We have a policy for the management of Islam, and this policy is based on Article 13 of the Constitution and the Greek law. Some of our fellow citizens appealed to the CCT, saying that Article 2 of the Constitution, on a predominant religion, means that the state cannot build a mosque. The CoR has decided that Article 3 is explained in the light of Article 13 and that is why Law 3512 is absolutely constitutional. Our fellow citizens have again appealed to the CCT, saying that the construction of the mosque is a burden on the environment and that environmental studies, etc. must be prioritised. They argued, in other words, that for the construction of any place of prayer - attention, they did not exclude the churches - all of this must be done. What does that mean? It means that if their positions were accepted, very simply the building of a place of prayer, including Orthodox churches, would be much more difficult and would require much, more money. But when you put such stumbling stones in the building of prayer areas, you end up violating Article 13, for religious freedom, without the possibility of having a place of prayer, does not exist. About a month ago the CP responded, rejecting applications for annulment. We could have had that arrangement earlier. But we wanted to wait for the decisions of the Council of State to take them into account. Our aim is for the law to also apply to the mosques in Athens. The existence of informal windows is a disgrace for the country and Muslims. It is also a constant risk to the safety of all of us. The mosque is the first step. We are already in the course of the implementation of the second step, as we have already licensed for four mosques, one of which in Thebes. These mosques are not new, they have been working for years, but we have managed to pass through the grey zone, in the light of legality. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The Golden Dawn, of course, takes the view that there should be no mosque anywhere in Athens, whether public or private. Its position is obviously unconstitutional and against fundamental conditions of the European Union, but that is totally in line with its nazi character. But the rest of the people who are distrusted about the mosque, but who accept the principle of religious freedom, would like to think about some questions: First, is it better to operate an informal mosque or a mosque with a named address and VDU? Secondly, is it better to operate an informal mosque without ensuring that, if there is a fire, don't people like mice burn or operate a mosque with fire service permission? Thirdly, is it better to operate an informal mosque in an illegal building, which in an earthquake can fall and kill dozens of people, or operate a mosque in a safe building? Fourthly, is it better to operate an informal mosque without toilets, with what this means for the hygiene of the space, or to operate a mosque with the permission of the Public Health Directorate? The answers to these questions will be found in the circular for licensing houses issued under the Minister of Constantine Arvanitopoulos. It's a very proper circular with excellent legal arguments. That's the circular we've been applying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Philie, you have to close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u32	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is quite strange that a Member of Parliament who has tabled a question against this application is asking whether the country of Metropolis had agreed. He was ignoring that the agreement of the country Metropolis has been repealed by the law of Marietta Giannaku. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we know how to recognise the right steps and complete them in a decisive and successful way, as we have done in the establishment of the introductory direction of Muslim studies in the Department of Theology at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] I'm just finishing up with something last. Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of religious workers, notice a difference with the other states: We - and the 'we' comprise all the ministers of the previous governments and not just us - did not create a priestly school at the University of Thessaloniki nor did we say that in order to become an imam, we must study in this introductory direction. We have given the opportunity to study the Muslim theology, since it works in the Greek exams. This is a fundamental difference in how we see Islam and Muslims. The lack of time does not allow me to speak about the answer to the third question I raised. That is why I will conclude by stressing that the article on the Islamic mosque of Athens is a technical and bureaucratic article. Political decisions, which are the real issue and the real scope for conflict, are not changed by the current regulation. They have already been taken, they have a cross-party character, they have a long history and their implementation has already been dramatically delayed, and the national interest is also affected. We, in particular, cannot allow that to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u33	I therefore give the floor for two minutes to the Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK - DIMAR. You have the floor for two minutes, Mr Koutsouko, just to record in the Minutes your objection to urgency.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, thank you very much. We served, as you said, Mr. Friend while I had to lead. But within the limits of parliamentary culture, I think it can be done. Of course, Mr. Friends did not feel the need to note, as he had to, that his legislative initiative was introduced into the House for discussion and vote with the votes of the Representation, including the Democratic Alliance, as his government partner, Mr. Kammenos, has instructed his parliamentary group not to vote for it. That is the paradox that we will be talking about when it comes to substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u35	Yeah, because I didn't give you the reason for that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u36	Yeah, but you gave me two minutes and I still have one and a half. Well, now listen to the rest one and a half minutes what I have to say. Mr. Skourletis yesterday discovered the investors who are in line waiting to invest, so he recommended that we vote on the bill in urgent procedure. A year and a half, he's been kicking them out with his policy. The Renewable Sources bill and the gas bill have important provisions that would allow a substantial debate. The mosque is incarnated ten years. Mr. Friend said it. We could talk about this more comfortable. And for Tritsis Park, too, he's there with his problems, it turns out there was no dialogue. I would like to say that this procedure, the urgent procedure, has become a status. Of course we are saying this in order to record, because we have no hope that a Member of Parliament will rise to add a single party. There's no such sensitivity. There's been a record of this. I would like to remind the majority Members that Mr Papadimoulis, not to mention either Mr Lafazanis or Mrs Konstantopoulou who, as parliamentary representatives, complained of this procedure as a coup d'état. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u37	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u38	I saw you, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u39	I am a parliamentary representative and I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u40	Please, it's at the expense of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u41	But you have now given the floor to a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u42	You all have the floor for your speech. You'll answer there. In an emergency, think that we should keep the process. You'll have a minute more, when you talk, to answer. Don't worry. Mr. Skourletis wants to make a legislative improvement that is good to know at first to be submitted and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. The legal improvement relates to the amendment tabled yesterday in relation to the refugees in Alexandra Avenue, with a general number of 632 and a special 55. These are some tables which are attached to the specific buildings in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Minister. They will be photographed and distributed, as soon as I sign them, to the parliamentary representatives. I apologise to Mrs Capitan, who was right. For that is what happens when I give someone else a parliamentary reason. I will, however, give her a comfortable time for a couple of minutes, when she speaks, to answer, in addition to her speech. So let's start the process. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Sifakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of presenting a draft law by the Ministry of Energy and the Environment on the development of the Renewable Energy Sources in our country today, containing the new RES and SYRIZA support scheme, in line with the European Commission's guidelines, which also faces a number of problems arising from the current policies implemented by the previous governments. I sincerely feel lucky, personally holding the RAE Protocol number 1 and 2 licences for the production of RES projects in operation since 1999, to recommend a bill that all the AIA operators who participated in the committee yesterday have called it a very positive one. It was also voted in principle by a large majority of the parties. As you may know, our country, despite the fact that the energy market for RES is now counting several years, something less than twenty, still has no, approved by the European Commission, support mechanism for RES. This is important negligence from the previous governments and has its impact on the fact that as a country we cannot take a transitional period until the new support system is implemented. That is why, Mr Koutsouko, you spoke about the emergency, you should be aware that because your governments had not taken care of any approved support mechanism for the Renewable Energy Sources from 1-1-2016, no contracts for the sale of electricity can be signed. Consequently, a number of investments that have completed the licensing process are in a construction phase, have been incorporated into the development law, but cannot proceed, at the risk of their indebtedness and the destruction of investors since they have been suffocated to complete the investments relating to old development laws. The development and implementation of the new scheme for energy production support for RES and NATURA is part of the European Union's single policy for tackling climate change and binding European and national targets for the penetration of RES into the energy mix. The use of indigenous RES is a central national energy objective, contributing both to the diversification of the energy mix in the direction of a gradual reduction in carbon energy production and to the security of energy supply, as well as to the development of the national economy. This will be done with a secure investment environment, with specific support for RES production, but no longer through guaranteed prices, but through market-based mechanisms, in order to achieve the best cost-benefit relationship for the community as a whole. But let us see where we are today in relation to the national but also the binding objective towards the European Commission in relation to the RES. Today there are 5.289 GW RES, a factor of 10,800 GWh green energy per year. If one also takes account of the energy produced by large hydroelectric power - which measures the national objective - then the total energy produced in our country is 15,300 GWh per year. In other words, we are 16%, with a national target of 20% and a binding European Union of 18%. To catch this national objective, it is estimated that additional penetration is needed between now and 2020 on the 2,5 GW RES, that is, about half of the power I have had up to now. To have the 5,289 GW to date, final consumers pay through the EMFF contained in the electricity accounts, mid-weighted by EUR 18,13 per MWh, with household consumers being charged EUR 24,87 per MWh, despite the significant 8% reduction that the current government has done since January this year. This is the landscape in the RES today and the specific national targets in numbers. Surely our country has made significant progress in achieving the objectives, but this has been achieved with a clear lack of integrated medium and long-term planning, with PPC devotion to unacceptably low levels, with only 3% of the installed power from RES, without calculating its plans the domestic added value, the production of domestic technology equipment or even the production of equipment on its territory by foreign suppliers. The RES policy was largely guided by the pressure of foreign chambers and large foreign and domestic companies and has been directed towards the service of their interests, thus leading the energy market to significant dead ends, the easy solution of which has always been to impose significant burdens on the final consumer. Also, this was done with very large deficits, due to these policies, of the Special Account of the LAG which pays the RES, resulting in major uncertainties and delays in the payment of producers from five to eight months and even with a price haircut, with the new deal, surpriseing and creating major problems mainly with small and medium-sized investors. All of this demonstrates that the need to change the RES support scheme and their gradual adaptation and participation in the energy market are necessary for their further development, the viability of the market itself, but in particular the containment of costs to the final consumer. The new RES support scheme provides that, as of 1 January 2016, the power plants from RES and NATS in the interconnected system participate in the electricity market and are cleared on the basis of that participation. So far, the old regime - which will still be joined by those who signed an electricity sale contract by 31-12-2015 - provides for compensation on the basis of guaranteed prices by technology - on the basis of what we call 'feed - in tariff' - without the participation of the RES in purchasing processes. Support for RES and RIS with the new scheme, which will take part in the energy market, will be based on the development of a new mechanism which provides for a differential increase - 'premium' - in addition to the price, as shaped in the wholesale energy market. This increase will be guaranteed for the time of the signed conventions with the EMO in the interconnected system or DEDEN on the islands. Different surcharge - or variable surcharge by technology - is adopted, rather than a fixed surcharge, so that regardless of the wholesale market price, these RES and NATIONAL stations per technology have a predetermined size of total income, what we call a reference value, for all the years of the contract of twenty or twenty-five years. The reference value for which each RES technology will be compensated shall be defined in this draft law and may be amended each year by a decision of the Minister, upon a recommendation from the RAE. The new projects are excluded, with regard to the new scheme, wind up to 3 MW and the other RES stations up to 500 kW. The rest of the RES and SNIH will sign an operating price aid contract, following an invitation to tender by means of competitive procedures made following a decision of the Minister for the Environment and Energy. Within 2016, a pilot competitive process will be conducted for 40 MW of photovoltaics with a specific starting value. For the first time with this draft law, virtual energy netting - the 'virtual net metering' - is an important historical breakthrough that will make farmers, JHAs and universities very much easier. The RES account to the EAGF shall be divided into two sub-accounts, the sub-account and the sub-account for payments. The market account for the first time, apart from the others, also has revenues from suppliers for all energy absorbed on the wholesale market, multiplied by the price difference in the wholesale market from the average price that would be shaped without the participation of the RES in the energy mix, which was a consistent demand of the RES operators over the previous years. As regards gas, L.4336/2015, as supplemented by L.4337/2015, provides for the separation of the distribution industry of existing NDPs, gas supply companies, with the establishment of a new gas distribution company. However, it should be noted that for reasons of facilitating the transition to the new environment it would be significantly easier to predict alternatively the possibility of separating the supply sector from the existing PSCs, which leads to identical results. The Separation of the supply industry instead of the distribution industry has significant legal, economic and management advantages. This possibility is currently being regulated. Article 35 regulates a decade-old subject with the construction of the Islamic mosque of Athens. The Minister referred to this and I do not need to say any further information. All I want to say is that Athens is the only European capital that has no Islamic mosque. At some point, therefore, the Constitution and Article 9 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms ratified by Decree-Law No 53/1974 must be applied. With regard to TAP, the draft law also improves the conditions between the Greek State and the company of the TAP gas pipeline by abolishing the exemption for the forestry areas from which the pipeline passes. Under the proposed provision, the company will compensate the public for the intervention of forest land under the existing national legislation. The agreement so far does not provide for any public compensation. The RAE and IAE shall be strengthened to human resources in order to be able to meet the requirements of the competitive procedures and other requirements of the present. In addition, RAE will be strengthened to cover empty organic positions of its staff with twenty-six private positions of indefinite duration. The truth is that RAE is seriously and well documented now in favour of the public interest and consumer interest, rationalising the energy market with a number of positive initiatives, such as the proposal to restructure the revenues of the special account adopted by the Government in this bill, its proposals for the change of debt supplier, the introduction of a new mechanism of adequacy with competitive procedures, the proposal to reduce the tariffs of the ICES, efforts to curb the rhetoric, the decisions on the interconnections of the non-interconnected islands, the proposal on the target model, which will be the basis of a bill which the government will shortly bring to the vote and a number of other decisions taken in the last year. There are issues relating to the movement of IGM officials and the environmental inspection body. An important point of the bill is the definition of issues relating to the national climate change strategy. The first draft national strategy for climate change is hereby adopted and a National Council for climate change adaptation is still in place. The Lyonic scene is facilitated as regards the installation for its needs, helpful to the central stage, in existing buildings in the region of olive grove. Finally, a management body is set up for the Tritsis Park. The efforts to manage through the ADA have so far proved to be inadequate, resulting in a great deterioration. Its management body, including local government, is hereby established and the revenues of the new body are regulated. It is estimated that its rational management will be significantly assisted in order to achieve its objectives for the benefit of the inhabitants of western Athens, as well as throughout Attica, given its hyperlocal importance. Ladies and gentlemen, as demonstrated in the vote in committee in principle, the bill is widely accepted both by the vast majority of the parties and by the bodies invited. It is a useful piece of legislation for society and the country, and on this basis we invite you all to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u46	Good. If we go that way, we'll be done in time. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Screkas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. I could not, ladies and gentlemen, speak before I begin to refer to the body of the bill, not to talk about the constant tactics that the government is applying in terms of legislating. Once again in the evening, late, he tabled a text of five hundred twenty-nine pages, it is a bill consisting of sixty-two articles and today he comes here and asks Members - just one day later - to come and have read this text, to understand what this text says and to vote for full conscience. I would say, Minister, that what you have started since you came to power will have to stop it. Referring to this bill, it is a bill that we agree at first. It is a bill, which we could discuss and improve many points. It is a bill, an important part of which is about the development of the country, which we so much need today with the unemployment that has come and with the poverty that has now been permanently established in our country. And you come, however, and bring this bill along with the urgency procedure. The urgency procedure, the urgent procedure, is a procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but in exceptional cases. You've made this up to a rule of law. And this thing must be stopped, because this is how the work produced in the Greek Parliament is dramatically demolished. You told the committee that the need for the urgent procedure lies in the implementation of European legislation on Renewable Energy, because you say that the country should have been harmonized and because it has not been harmonized, the investments have been frozen or are in danger of freezing. The question is simple, Minister. A year and a half now, you have done nothing to harmonize Greek legislation, a year and a half now, that the investments in all sectors and the renewable energy sector have been frozen, have you not been in a hurry for a year and a half now to bring the bill to a discussion? So you got a hurry on August's eve, as if in the 15th century investors would run and start building photovoltaics or wind turbines? So I think that's a pretext. And I ask you to tell us what is the real reason why you bring this important bill to be discussed in the House in the urgent procedure. First of all, as I have said, the bill is in the right direction. Our country had to be ready and put what you are currently bringing into a legislature from 1-1-2016. Now, we have August 2016, that is, you should have implemented it from the beginning of time. There has been a loss of valuable time, Minister, and this unfortunately has a very unfavourable effect on the country's economy, this and many other things that you do and see that we have now gone into a recession, which seems to be deepening. What did you do? What is the procedure you have followed? You have tabled a text of about thirty pages and about nine articles in consultation at OpenGov, nothing to do with the text we are discussing today, which, as I said, has sixty-two articles and five hundred nine pages. The strict text of the bill is a hundred ten pages. Another problem arises. This bill requires a number of ministerial decisions and regulations to be able to function. I asked you in committee and asked you today: what have you done with the preparation of these texts? What have you done with the preparation of ministerial decisions? Because if they do not come and do not come, if they are not made at the right time, I fear that after a year we will be here again, we will discuss the same things, a year back, a year with frozen investments and a year of greater poverty in our country. Please tell us what you will do, for example, for all these projects that have contracted before 2015, will be built by the first half of 2018 and will not be electrified by their own. What about these projects? How will they be collected, how will they have revenues? With the existing scheme of the guaranteed price or with the intermediate price scheme by different increases? These are things we need to discuss if you really want to start some projects to be built. Because, as you know, with this bill, only works for which contracts have already been signed can be built. New projects want at least one or two years ahead to be able to prepare themselves with new prices and prepare new business models. But what will you do with these projects that really have contracts and need to be built? What prices will they be paid for? How will they be financed by the banking system if they do not know how to obtain revenue? I am going to a very important part of the deficit that has been created in the UN special account through which the owners of the PV and wind turbines of the Renewable Energy Sources are paid. You remember very well that as soon as you took over the government in January 2015, your predecessor had received a recommendation from the Regulatory Authority for a rationalized rationalisation of the end of EMCDDAAR. Then, in the midst of celebrations, fascists and drumcrackers, Mr. Lafazanis had refused to follow the recommendation of the Regulatory Authority of Energy, this independent authority. Two years later we are living the results of that decision, a deficit in the UN which is estimated to approach 330 million in 2016 and around 400 million in 2017. And today you are coming - and you are right, of course - trying to cover the problem that your choice then created. So you come along and say that you will cover this problem, and even without burdening the consumer. And that's very good. And we want to hear how you do it. You say that you will be burdening suppliers, namely those who trade in electricity. And how are you gonna do that? Setting a charge with a mathematical formula, which will be around 6 euros per Megaron now. And in this way suppliers will absorb - you claim - this burden will not pass it on to the consumer, and so the account, the deficit in the UN's account will be covered, but consumers will not pay any more. I come and ask you: The number one supplier of Greece today is PPC, the Public Power Corporation. It holds 90% market share, so 90% will be called to cover the UN deficit, which means that PPC will be invited, with its powers, to reduce the profit margin or increase its cost by approximately 270 million euros by the end of 2017. And the question is: Do you think PPC can do it? Have you spoken to PPC Command? Has PPC assured you and its administration that it will not actually pass on any costs to the consumer? Minister, yesterday in the committee responsible, where PPC Vice-President Andriotis was present, he received a question from me. I asked him clearly if PPC could raise this burden. And he answered to me and to you heard by Mr. Andriotis, the Vice President of PPC. He said that PPC is in a very difficult financial situation and that he does not think he can absorb this extra cost. Indeed, he said in particular that he believes that this higher cost should rather transfer it to the consumer. So, Minister, what you are doing here and for which you celebrate, going back to the Greek people and saying 'We manage to close a deficit without burdening you, Greek citizens', is hypocritical once again. It's a truth. It's not true. The Vice President of PPC told you. It will pass on this cost to the final consumer, whether he is a household or a professional. So why do you come and say that you managed to have the pie all over and the dog full while it's a lie? It is even a lie, which will create a problem for PPC eventually. PPC, as you know, has about 3 billion unresolved balances, along with the arrangements. And they have doubled since you took over the country's rule, because it pays the results of the slogan "I don't pay", which you electionally contacted the world in all directions. Thus, the insurmountables have gone from 1.7 billion to 3 billion, it has 5 billion loans and 2 billion investment plans to enable it to operate, to modernise the units, to build "Ptolemais 5" and to exploit the Greek lignite. Because if these investments are not made, PPC will not be able to produce lignite electricity in a few years. And you come and put that weight on PPC. And you say that it will be absorbed and not imposed on the consumer. Hypocritical, Minister. It would be better to tell what the real truth is in the world. That he will eventually pay for this gap, which your own policy has partly created. Another important thing regarding your own state-of-the-art concept and philosophy as regards your operation and operation of the state-of-the-art machine: You plan to staff RAE, the Energy Regulatory Authority. We agree that the RAE should be deployed. In what way? By selecting staff with merital and objective criteria as set out in the AACC. But you, no, don't want this. By way of derogation, the executives, the people, the scientists who will be responsible for RAE will be selected. And who's responsible for this? The President of the RAE. This is your perception of a modern state. This is your perception of how the Greek State should work: put its own days, without any assessment, without any sense of merit. This way, repeating errors that have stopped in decades now, you bring them back in 2016 to Greece. And so you believe that you are offering national services and that you are improving things. Behind us. Reverse is your function, not progressive, Minister. We call for this to be withdrawn and used by the law as a certain way of choosing staff for public services through ADP. Tritsis Park, and that's what I'm finishing. This is a problem which, in the two years of your government, such as many other problems in the country, has been swollen: cut stream, dried lakes, unpaid the two - three employees who are there, dead fish and aquatic birds. That's what you've been able to do in two years. The last time the Tritsis Park was funded was on the government of Constantine Karamanlis in 2007. You come and give a solution, as you claim, at Tritsi Park, by setting up a new person of private law, as though the problem is the legal persons or organisations you create to solve the problem. No, Minister. The problem is, we need financing the Tritsi Park. And he needs proper management. Let us sit down and see and discuss how this can be done and agree on this matter. I don't understand why you're bringing it now. Two years you've been in the government. So, you're in a hurry now? So Tritsi Park worked well a year ago? Why don't you drop it, sit together and see who's gonna manage the park, how will it be managed and with what money?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u48	Pick it up, Mr. Screka, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, in principle we agree with the bill. On the articles, Mr Minister, please take note of what I mentioned. And agree to withdraw them to discuss them in another time, so that we can get a better result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u50	The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotaros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Screka, there's also Article 35, which you didn't say a word about. It seems that it does not serve the New Democracy, because you will very simply vote once again with your hands and feet on speeding up work on the mosque in Athens. Happy birthday to today, August 4th. Today, in 1936, a national regime was established, which made our hometown a rock against two world states: Italian and German. An entire Greek people unitedly confronted them. Mr. Philis was mentioned, and he said that even Ioannis Metaxas and George Papadopoulos wanted the mosque. Yes, but they would not, as no one would understandable, want the millions of illegal Islamics who have invaded our homeland. To have a mosque to serve tourists, as you say, and business executives and embassies, yes, it sounds reasonable. It doesn't sound reasonable, however, to ask for and build a mosque in an Athens where more than a million illegal Islamic immigrants are found. Just so we know what we're talking about. Starting on this bill, the government brought it to the mushrooms, like thieves. Usually those who have to hide something or those who have to serve some investors do. For that reason, some investments need to be made, as we have been told in committee. Rooselet smells like the whole case. As for the urgency procedure, you bring it into August because you say that, once this bill has been passed, the procedures will be speeded up. The Greek state, in other words, will work in August. We have to make fun of ourselves. Depreciation of this very serious issue of the Renewable Energy Sources is a very serious issue and needs a very serious debate and not what you have done, which you brought a pole, a bill at nine and a half in the evening, and the next day at ten in the morning, you were required by the Members to discuss it with the relevant committees. Of course, since it is urgent, because most of the bill has to do with the OTAs, does it have anything to do with TAR, does it have anything to do with Tritsi Park, does it have anything to do with the mosque in Athens that caught you in August to speed up procedures? It's all very serious. Yes, of course. Everything. And of course, the Renewable Sources. But they will have absolutely no value in a country which is not inhabited by Greeks and is inhabited by Islamics in their overwhelming majority, who will do what they want, as in other countries in Europe, where the very liberal policy of the last decades has led to everything we see every day happening in Germany, Belgium, France, England, everywhere this liberal policy of integrating all of this. Article 35. Confiscated. The mosque. You say "acceleration of mosques". And remember what the explanatory statement said. He said he wouldn't be built near houses and near professional roofs. Whoever has gone there - because rather than most of you don't know where the Botanic falls - you will see that a few meters from where the mosque is to be built is an entire quarter, the Marconi district of the Botanic, where some people have been living for decades. A few hundred meters away is the centre of Botanic and just next door there are tens, hundreds of businesses. At the same time that the - for how long we don't know - Christian Europe, but also the whole Christian world is under attack unprecedentedly on all fronts, you live in your world or you are part of this world. You don't know what happens to you, or do you know very well, and you're part of this orchestrated project against the Islamization that has to do with the Islamization of our country? Let us remind you that in 1821 the fighters who stood up and successfully then managed to liberate a large part of our country, fought for Christ's faith in holy and patronage, and did not fight to you to find everything ready and to dismantle it and to level it up. And a little comment, because some site yesterday said that only the ANELs voted against. Of course, they are voting against. After they know that there will be three other parties that will vote for and thus make them 'free guys'. Because the SYRIZA ordinances - because that is what they tell you on the street now - you are not entitled to talk about national issues now, with everything that has happened. As for you, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it appears that your very grief with the masonry, both domestic and external, does not allow you to exercise your patriotic and Orthodox beliefs, as you say. And the roll-call vote is mainly for you, so that Greek citizens can see that you are neither religious nor patriots. Or rather you are, but you must be of'sweet water'. We'll see all this night. The cost, you say, of the mosque is 1 million euros rather than something change. Of course, that too is a lot of money, because with this EUR 1 million, there could be too many of the homeless who live in the wider region of Botanic. And what you don't know is that the guy for this competition - who was barren for four times - on the fifth time was ordered to big-time friends and the consortia of all the big-workers took over this little project of 1 million euro without seeing what's behind it. Because it will cost around EUR 100 million to form the environment in a second phase. So he has a little interest in all kinds of contractors this issue. You won't even make a mosque. You'll make a mosque, teach in, study, learn or anything else. You are very 'large', very comfortable, than you show, so that they don't think you're too poor, that you didn't make them a good act. You really don't see what's going on around us? Don't you see the five-fashioned, in our homeland, who desecrate the Christian temples? Most of you know. He's your crooks. They are the anti-fascists of "sweet water", as you proudly say "anti-fascists", those who are constantly caught by the police and others are constantly letting them continue their work. Yesterday, in the Exarcheal temples, more than two were desecrated. It's going on. Many others have been desecrated. Ask what's going on in Saint Panteleimon. Go ask the priest what happens when he leaves and wants to go to his house until he's urethoned, he's spit on by all these sympathizers and afflicted illegal immigrants. We have heard Mr. Friend's most serious arguments, who said among other things: 'What do you want? Be Muslims not only in Thrace;' He's all over Greece now. First of all, the Treaty of Lausanne allows there to be Muslims and a specific number only in the region of Thrace and not in the rest of Greece. If the law were implemented, there would be no Muslim other than those in Thrace, who are legally there, who are legally movable, have all and are governed by the laws of the Greek state. He knows some things, and the gentleman here, Zabek Hussein, who is trying to impose Turkish politics on all of Greece as a worthy correspondent. Mr. Friend spoke and made a comparison for clean countries. He said if we want to be a clean country, it'll only be the poor countries. We here have an example to tell him. A pure country is Japan, perhaps the most advanced country in the world, where there is no trace of Muslim and that is convinced. I'll testify to it in the Minutes in just a few minutes. Among other things, in Japan permanent residence is not given to Muslims. There is a strict ban on the proliferation of Islam in Japan. In the universities of Japan Arabic or any Islamic language is not taught. The introduction of koran into the country in Arabic shall be prohibited. According to data, published by the Japanese government, only two lucky Muslims have been given temporary residence, who must follow the Japanese law of the Land in which they are located. Muslims should speak Japanese and perform their religious ceremonies only at home. Japan is the only country in the world that has a negligible number of Islamic embassies. The Japanese are not affected by Islam at all. The only Muslims who live in Japan are foreign corporations. Even today, visas are not granted to Muslim doctors, engineers or executives consigned from foreign companies. Most companies refer to their regulations that only non-Muslims can apply for work. The Japanese Government is of the opinion that Muslims are fundamentalists - and well they do - even in the era of globalisation and are not prepared to change their Muslim laws. Muslims don't dare think they can rent a house in Japan. If a new guy comes to a neighborhood and knows the rest that the new Muslim man is, then the whole neighborhood is on alert. No one can establish an Islamic organization. There's no sharia in Japan. And in case a Japanese marries a Muslim woman, it is always considered parable. This is perhaps the most advanced country in the world and has nothing to do with the poor countries that Mr Friend speaks about. We have seen that you are so pro-religious that you are about to vote for the decriminalisation of blasphemy. But that is because I prevailed religion in our country is Orthodoxy and it is nothing else. I'll get to this for what you want to do. He also spoke of the seat of Muslim studies in Thessaloniki, and the first thing you did was to take the picture from the entrance and take it to the third floor that our Orthodox faith will be taught, so that those Muslims will enter the school. We are talking about trying to impose all her majesty on unreliable religion. You said another very serious argument: that we must pay the mosque in Athens, in the Botanic, if ever, so that there is no funding and control from foreign countries. But first of all, the largest sums, which have been invaded over the last two years, are from various non-governmental organisations, such as George Soros and others, which finance this notion of adequacy and the invasion of millions of illegal Muslims, to their overwhelming majority. And you said: 'If we do not want to have a problem, like France...'. If we do not want to have a problem like France, then you will have to throw them all away because they are illegal. It's very simple. And you like the picture that he plays yesterday and today on all the sites - why is there no great channel of status going on - where a French priest Catholic drags out of a church, which they had occupied faithful in an area, why is there no other way, why does the municipality of Paris want to tear it down? The only thing that Turkey has entered into a contraction in defending all the 'Muslims' who are in our homeland and those who bring us should make you ill. Repeat, ask Mr. Zabek Hussein here, who the other day went to the funeral of a lad, a pomaku and tossed the Greek flag down and took this hero young man and did what they wanted to do literally. These countries that demand religious freedoms in our country, see who they are. It's Saudi Arabia, it's Qatar, where he doesn't dare talk to a man, where women aren't allowed to see their eyes either. To the ladies of SYRIZA this is very "large" and forget their humanitarian beliefs and left ideologies when it comes to the dissolution of Orthodoxy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You are playing the game of Islamics and not of unworthy religion, because you yourself and your predecessors were the ones who did not support the legitimate status of Assad - Muslim was - but you supported and supported the Islamics. You are doing the embargo in Orthodox Russia, because it is the one that has been seized by the Islamists in Syria and elsewhere. You are the one who supported the break-up of Libya, running back - with the New Democracy, because it was ruling back then - from Clinton's skirts, which was leading the break-up of Libya as well. And then what happened? Islamists who financed them took the head of the American ambassador. And this caused the inhabitants of the northern suburbs to fear, having swimming pools and hollow villas - and there are many SYRIZA executives - because Islamists, after taking the head of the American ambassador, enjoyed swimming in the swimming pools of the American embassy. So be afraid of those who have a pool that Islamists will prefer you, in relation to some other poor people who live in the center of Athens and Botanic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u52	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u53	I shall end in a minute, Mr President, allow me. Our faith, Greeks, I repeat, is being persecuted by five-familiars inside the countryside and Islamists outside and within the country. You've opened wide not only the couriers, but also the central gate you now open with a number of bad excuses. Bear in mind, like your predecessors, the New Democracy and the PASOK, who will vote for the expeditious work on the mosque, the organized plan to exterminate the genocide of the Greek population, which is happening in many ways and which we have explained, and at the same time, the violent exchange with the imperial entry into our homeland of jihadi, Islamists and all those who are just waiting for the signal to make it all and here, and of course you cannot deal with them in any way. The Golden Dawn will defend, as it should, the sanctuaries and loyals of the tribe, the desires of the fighters of 1921, our ancestors who fought for this place, the right fight of the inhabitants, not only of the Botanic, but also of every neighbourhood of Greece who fight for their homeland and region, for the Constitution and the laws that say quite contrary to what you do and will show in the course of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Panayotus, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u55	And it will be recorded in history as the only defender of all the above, unlike all of you who will have a perpetual place between the timeless Nightmares, the castings and the notorious. With God's help, we'll win. As for the rest, regarding renewable sources, we are not being burned by what will happen with them if there are no Greek citizens in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, you have the floor for a minute, because I understand that you want to speak on behalf of your staff. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have once again seen the dirty mud, which the rapporteur of the Golden Dawn has once again thrown into my face. First of all, he called me a Turkish correspondent. I believe I am a Member of Parliament who was elected by votes four times. This is an honor to me, to be and serve the country in the House. The case was opened again with the nineteen-year-old phantom who drowned in the Keramoti. And there we again had a mud of the fascist form and Mr. Bunny against me within the committee, that I tore up the Greek flag and kidnapped the dead. This is where I invite Mr. Panagiotaro to reveal it, and if he reveals it, I quit right now. Will he be able to reveal it himself? Does he have the courage to do that? Is that patriotism? When my ancestors fought fascism in the mountains of Albania, his ancestors where were? We are against fascism, but this mud must end. I call on Mr. Panagiotairos to reveal even a picture of the Greek flag.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u59	Come on, because today's the other thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u60	They must stop, Mr President. We are in the temple of democracy and I believe that we must tell the Greek people the truth they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u61	It is therefore recorded that you are serving your country, which is Greece, and you do not accept that you have done this with the Greek flag.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Panayiot, you have the floor for a minute. No, Mr. Rabbit, you don't have the floor. On staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u65	What are you talking about, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Rabbit, sit down. On staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u67	I'm a parliamentary representative. He mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u68	He referred to the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Rabbit, don't yell at me. Personally responds the one who caused it. I give the floor to Mr Panayotarus, who made the report because he raised his hand too. If Mr. Panagiotaros doesn't want you to have his seat, you will speak. One will therefore speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u70	The parliamentary representative should speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u71	Here, Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let's get some things straight. What we're talking about happened in the village of Glauki. There's photos, there's newspapers that report them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u73	Bring them in.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u74	I'll get them. Secondly, there are many photographs - since this Member of Parliament has raised the issue - and I will bring them in ten minutes here, showing him photographed with Turkish ministers, with Turkish officials, under the flag...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u75	Shut up! Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u76	Under the flag...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Cassidy, calm down! Mr. Panayotus, calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u78	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u79	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u80	I'll get these pictures within half an hour. I'll find them and get them down here. For all that's true, and the photos. So here, is the SYRIZA MEP now gladly stating that there is no Turkish minority in Thrace?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u81	Tell him now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u82	Let him say it now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u83	Well...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u84	Does he say so? Does he say so? There is no Turkish minority in Thrace. Tell him now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u85	Are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u86	Tell him now and condemn the moves...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u87	Do nothing in the Minutes at all. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Nothing is recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u88	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u89	Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u90	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Rabbit, you will not make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u92	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u93	Are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u94	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u95	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Holocaust, I'm going to have to throw you out! Sit down! We're done! You could've finished bringing the evidence that he caused you to do. It's over there! [[Noise - protests from the Golden Dawn wing]] We're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u97	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u98	That's his thing, when he's gonna say it, when he won't say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u99	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u100	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u101	Sit down! In any case, nothing in the Minutes is recorded. You're just yelling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u102	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u103	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u104	Good! You challenged them. And you will understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u105	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Rabbit, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u107	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u108	...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u109	Sit down! You're both retired in class, and Mr. Lagos and Mr. Panayotaros. You won't do it here! [[Noise in the Chamber]] We're done. Sit down. With me voices in the Bureau cut off. Let's move on. Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr Theonas, if you want the dialogue, go out and do it with colleagues. Mr. Maniotis is on his way to Step. Come on, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u110	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u111	Whatever he wants, he'll answer. Finish! [[Noise - protests from the Golden Dawn wing]] All right, go out and protest now! [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] Silence in the deep! [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] Outside, Mr. Heliopoulou, out of the Chamber! Well, come on, because Mr. Maniot must speak. Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, democracy is the best civilization that human society has ever discovered. But I am sorry to tell you this, but I think you were due, when the dictatorship of 4 August is expressed, to condemn it and not allow any of us to do all that we have seen before. [[Applause]] Because that is the way in which we are finally taking a step towards the enemies of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u113	He's elected, Mr. Maniatis. She was sitting here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u114	So we are taking a step towards the opponents and enemies of democracy. Because what was preceded does not honor democracy or the Greek people, regardless of what it voted for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u115	PASOK is a dictatorship, until today!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u116	Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u117	Who's talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u118	I come and think that, on the basis of what has been said before, it is useful to discuss at the Conference of Presidents that the Bureau should immediately intervene, so that it is not just in the Minutes of yesterday's sitting but also in the minutes. Because there are cameras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u119	Democrat!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u120	It is not a matter of a Conference of Presidents. You're an old colleague. It's a matter of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u121	I am aware that I am addressing the perhaps more experienced President-in-Office of the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u122	All right, you just said prisoners in the Minutes, I answer on the subject too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u123	I believe that all this experience, which has just been preceded, is useful to transfer to the other Presidents and Presidents. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate could be a quiet debate, if we did what every normal operating state does. We are supposed to be here to discuss the new status of Renewable Energy and the new gas regime, which, Minister, have been at your disposal for a year and a half, ready. For reasons which concern you, you have obviously been delayed, you have been given the consultation again, and so on, and now we are coming with an urgent procedure to discuss them. Fortunately, by way of derogation from what is envisaged, we managed and listened to the operators and saw how the market reacted to what you intended. I, ladies and gentlemen, shall not refer to the main body of the bill at all, because I think it has the consent of all of us, with possible micro-remarks and micro-changes, but which have absolutely no significance, because they simply differentiate the system of financing at a fixed price, the fit - intariff with the fit - in-premium. 'Shill letters' for the citizens. In any case, we are adapting to what most Member States have adapted, in order to see how renewable energy can be strengthened in the current economic circumstances. I want to deal with four other issues. The first is PPC's special account and future. The second is the Islamic mosque. Third is Tritsi Park. The fourth is the residential control zones. Article 23, the special account. To make it simple and understandable to the citizens, someone has to pay. What's he gonna pay? The "black hole", which currently exists in the bill that repays photovoltaics and all renewables. How will this hole be in 2016? The President of the UN, Mr Philippi, yesterday told us that it would be 334 million euros at the end of 2016. How long will that gap be in 2017? The same president of the competent body, the UNLA, told us that it would be EUR 494 million, half a billion. Who is scheduled to pay this on the basis of the legislation that we have before us for ratification? The suppliers, that is, 90% of PPC will pay for it. After Archimedes and the "fine, find", the government found "the chicken that bears the gold eggs". PPC, obviously, according to the government, has the opportunity to pay up to 300 million and 400 million in order to fill these gaps. Can he? What did PPC Vice President tell us yesterday? You know, many times it doesn't matter what we say among ourselves, whether the Politics is overreacting in defending or defending the choices of the government, or the opposition. So it says the Deputy Prime Minister of PPC, PPC, appointed Vice-President: "The "sugar" can't stand any more. The most likely is that we will pass the cost on to the citizens, i.e. the'marble' will be paid at the end of the day. What does the government appointed President of PPC, Mr Panayotakis, also say? Two months ago at the ECONOMIST, an international audience, he said that countries are not going bankrupt but are going bankrupt too. Immediately, it does not strike a bell, but it strikes a bell that the largest company in the country, PPC, with the sole responsibility of the government, is at risk of bankruptcy and, if PPC goes bankrupt, the country goes bankrupt. In his letter to employees, he says: "Our company spends the most critical moment in its history. We have to face the greatest challenge" - PPC's commander says - 'the NOME auctions'. It is what the government has chosen as a better solution to adapting to the liberalised market. Ladies and gentlemen, when there is no bread in the'marble and spectacle' policy, there is only one spectacle. Two weeks ago, Prime Minister Tsipras here, in the yard, made a picture of SYRIZA's proposals on the new constitution, on what is to be discussed with own-initiative groups, whose coordination will be appointed by the government and then we will have various other debates, benefiting from the constitutional procedure laid down in Article 110 of the Constitution, how this strict institutional framework is being reviewed. What did the Prime Minister say? "Don't worry, citizens, the energy will remain public, state." But what are the Prime Minister and his ministers doing? Date of UN designation: 25 May 2016. Signatures: Drasakis, Deputy Prime Minister, Tsakalotos, Stathakis, Juliarakis, Skourletis, Ministers participating in the Governing Council for Economic Policy. What do these ministers and the Deputy Prime Minister say? I'll testify for the Minutes. ‘Subscribe 15. Public Power Corporation, PPC. Method of recovery: If possible, in 2016 it will be sold at 17% of PPC." How much is the public today in PPC? 51%. So if it's sold 17%, what's left of it? 34%, blocking mority. Meaning? The majority provided for in many other privatizations. What does the last column say? The last column says that TIADE in September will find the consultant who will launch the competition to sell 17% of PPC. I'm presenting for the minutes the newspaper of the Government. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is all this misery, there are all these lies, all these delusions, or whatever we want to say, because I think they are political fraud when they are contradicted by themselves. Again, it doesn't matter what we say. It is important what the government itself says and above all what the contradiction between the words of the government and the signatures of the government is. How, then, does PPC finally answer the question: "In the end, PPC will be public – state or private"? The signatures give the final answer. To finish with PPC, because things are too serious and should not enter the "cross bed" either of the Anti-Pulse, or of the conceptions and status of the government, PPC is a "bomb" ready to explode. One of the causes is what the union of workers is called and the administration and all the directors-general: The debts to PPC. 31-12-2014: Debt to PPC 1 billion 709 million, 1.7 billion. 30-6-2016: Debt to PPC in total, all: 2 billion 961 million. Within a year and a half of SYRIZANEL, citizens' debts towards PPC increased by 60%. Because we are living, like Jerusalem, we all realize that this has resulted from two main causes, the logic of "I do not pay, I do not pay" and obviously the greatest poverty of the Greek people, the Greek citizens, who cannot objectively repay. How will the 3 billion-dollar problem that the Greek people owe to PPC be tackled? The answer here must be very clear. I will not comment at all on the issue of derogating appointments to the RAE in scientific capacity. I think it goes without saying that, for reasons of fundamental moral order, the energy regulator, the regulator of the greater financial interests, should follow the ALP procedures and be appointed by transparent and perfectly clean procedures all technical staff. Islamist mosque: We are proud to have unblocked the process in 2011 under our own legislation, but I would like to stress, as I did yesterday in committee, that we are once again seeing the split-up of the government majority. The chair of power is, after all, much sweeter than any authorities might be in a heirly government coalition. We, therefore, as a Democratic Reconciliation, shall vote in favour of this provision, because we remain faithful to our values and principles. As far as Tritsi Park is concerned, I'll say it with absolute understanding. Minister, this is a serious matter. It's obvious that it's a serious matter. I'll tell you what we did in August 2014, and Mr. Zenito told you yesterday, the President of Ilio, the municipality that has the greatest extent. What did we predict in August 2014? This whole park, instead of being in the Ministry where no one can control it - what work does the Central Ministry have with the Tritsi Park - go to the Western Athens Development Association, in the eight municipalities, to the body that represents them. The rapporteur of the Officer's Opposition made a mistake. The latest money paid to Tritsis Park was provided by us in August 2014, because we paid back all the debts both to PPC and to PPC. And we have enabled the Green Fund to cover operating expenses. So what did we have? A park given to local communities, the respective municipalities through the ASA, a repayment of debts and a provision to be able to cover their costs either from the ESRB or from the Green Fund. What are you doing, Minister, now and it's a mistake to find it in front of you very soon? You create a legal person under private law and appoint a Director-General. It's a job that a major mayor can do to coordinate the five employees who work and have the indulgence as the local society has it. We, as Democratic Reconciliation, invite you to see it again. We believe you've been led into the wrong options. All the municipalities are in front of you. They even said that the Municipality of Ilios will not even send a representative, it has no point in sending a representative. So we want you to see that, too. I shall conclude, Mr President, on the question of residential control zones. It is an issue that has not been discussed at all, but I will tell you, because it concerns many regions of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u124	Not very detailed. You've already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u125	Wait a minute. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u126	You have one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u127	It is about Argolida, Ioannina, Volos, Patras, Heraklion. What's that thing? It is a few options that have once been made to relocate the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises to some areas, with mistakes designed, urban, environmental. Because that was a mistake, what was decided in 2011? We gave a first extension for two years. It's over. In 2013 we made a second extension not to relocate. And the government is coming now and gives a third extension. This, Minister, is a right step, but a half step. We call on you to make use of the provision of the law on spatial and urban reform, now to commission a study on a region - which you want - and on the basis of the findings of the study to implement this whole thing within six months in all the regions that are suffering. And to resolve once and for all, with the agreement of the Council of State and the services you are supervising, all this huge issue which does not allow small and medium-sized enterprises established in specific areas, nor the development law to join, nor the long-term plan to make, neither employees hire nor above all to see their future. On the basis of these considerations and the remarks, ladies and gentlemen, we reiterate as a Democratic Incorporation that we are voting in favour of the bill at first instance. For the individual articles we will be placed when the time comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u128	In the positive remarks made by my colleague, Mr Maniotis, the Bureau responds: Article 66(8) and (10) Module of complaints imposing penalties: ‘Exemption of speech’. It's hit, Mr. Maniots. ‘No entry in the minutes of the corresponding speeches’. It's offended. 'Suspension to class'. It's offended. And the last one was not imposed, which is a ban on participating in the debate, which the House decided by raising or raising the hand. If, as a party, you have something else to add to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, your representative should add it. The three of the four sentences provided for by the Bureau were imposed on the two colleagues who were offended. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. The government today brings in another draft law on energy and in particular on the support system for renewable sources. It comes with this draft law to serve the general direction of the European Union's complete liberalisation, to facilitate business groups in the development of other energy forms with guaranteed profits and with the heavy account to the people. The guidelines concern all Member States and aim to consolidate the electricity market at European Union level. The draft law also implements specific commitments made by the Government in the framework of the third memorandum and the upcoming assessment. All the forces - they appeared in the committee yesterday - who support the policy of privatisation, the new areas of profitability of business groups, in a sense, are in favour of the draft law. The draft law promotes the individual transitional arrangements which are called upon to resolve - as it says - 'existent distortions in the functioning of the electricity market'. One of these distortions and contradictions has to do with the prices traded by producing all forms of energy. The main is the sufficient investment incentives, such as the secured electricity sales prices and, of course, the non-production of large-scale bills covering these finances, such as the specific emission reduction charge, the EFSF, which is charged to the electricity account and covers the revenues of the net energy account from the RES. Due to the rapid development of the RES, the revenues of this account are not sufficient. There is a deficit of many millions. As a result of this policy, the EMFF's charge for the domestic invoice has increased 300% in recent years. Under the pretext of strengthening clean energy and protecting the environment, the European Union, as it is well known, has opened up this principle of renewable energy in recent years. Especially for Greece, this policy implemented by all the Euro-Union powers has evolved into a real energy dolphin for the workers and the people. Governments other than all other benefits and facilities for the installation and development of renewable projects, subsidised loans, speeding up licensing procedures and others provided the system of guaranteed for certain profitability. In other words, it imposed that PPC purchases the whole of the energy produced by other private operators through RES with the favourable pricing policy established by the relevant legislation. PPC, in turn, carried the above electricity cost from the RES into the account of popular households who pay extremely expensively through the increases in electricity tariffs that they cannot pay. Hence, too many are trying to set up or many others are with the current being cut off. The size of capitalist support as a whole, as in the RES sector that the people pay for, is a challenge. They reveal the classic content of the policy of capital parties that support a handful of parasites against the people in the name of capitalist development, green development and others. The RES is extremely expensive. The guaranteed prices are inconsistent: for PVCs EUR 286 per megawattre, for windy 88 euros per megawattre, for PVCs on roofs of EUR 391 per megawattre. PPC, however, sells less than EUR 55 per megawatt. This draft law essentially maintains the system of guaranteed prices for RES and SITU producers. For producers linked to the interconnected system and network of the Continent, it is provided that the contracts for the sale of electricity, signed up to 31-12-2015, are not affected, provided that the relevant production plants have been put into operation until 31-3-2018; windscreen, small hydroelectric, and up to 31-12-2017 the rest. It also enables them to choose to migrate to the new aid scheme if they so wish by maintaining the prices provided for in their contracts. New plants, not included above, are subject to the new aid scheme. The opening of tenders for new establishments introduced by the bill in effect maintains the same system of guaranteed prices, i.e. guaranteed subsidies, which will result from tenders. In any event, consumers shall cover the cost of growth and return on investments in RES and NFS in order to ensure the profitability of producers and traders. The new scheme provides that the producer from RES and PSH receives a guaranteed price, the reference price, for its production. This value consists of one of the revenues generated by participation in the market and, on the other hand, of the difference between the reference price and the specific market price calculated by the OLAF in accordance with a methodology to be adopted by the Ministry. The specific market price is calculated in relation to the system limit price and the other mechanisms of the wholesale market. The calculation methodology is a crucial element of the draft, as it will determine the profitability of the investors and the burden on consumers to support RES and STH. A significant differentiation in the new system, which we recognise, is that the compulsory participation of producers from RES and SITUs in the electricity market submits them to the obligation to accurately predict their production and charges them with the cost of divergences from this provision. The relevant details are not described in the law. They are intended to be included in the relevant market operating codes and the system management code. However, the potential for accurate predictions and the corresponding avoidance of divergence costs is greater for large producers, which have dispersed production and the ability to use advanced forecast models, which will lead to the concentration of capital in a few large groups. The bill shows that a solution is under way to the problem of the great deficit in the EEG-Act, resulting from the high cost of consumers, in order to cover the subsidy granted to RES producers. The significant increase in production from RES in combination with other factors, such as low demand due to the economic crisis and relatively low gas prices, led to a decrease in the system's limit value, from which the suppliers of electricity benefited, as their profitability margin increased in relation to retail prices. In the vision of rationalisation of this distortion, the bill will be charged to suppliers with the benefit they have gained from increasing electricity generation from RES. In fact, this burden will reduce the current profitability margins of suppliers and probably at some point in time, as competition will in any case lead to a new concentration. It will be transferred from these big to final consumers. The regulations also help to depreciate lignite and hydroelectric production for popular consumption for the benefit of industry and the various producers and traders of energy, resulting in an even greater burden on the people's strata. By strengthening the market conditions in the production and trade in electricity, the bill leads to an increase in the exploitation of the labour force of all workers in the industry in order to serve the competitiveness of the companies involved in it in the well-known ways: intensification, contraction, wage pressure and rights. Overall, the new system maintains and expands the operation of the electricity industry under market laws. It imposes regulations that are supposed to correct the imperfections and market distortions, but they actually reflect interests of capital share in contrast to the needs for adequate, cheap and secure energy supply using the country's primary forms of energy and the country's capacity to produce relevant equipment and facilities. It is obvious that the Greek governments, in the context of the commitments made by the country's membership of the European Union and the needs of European monopolistic groups to take a strong position in international competition, will continue to provide every kind of facility for the development of green energy. We note that these competitions are also complicated by the competition between green energy monopolies and those active in fossil fuels which, for the time being, are more than capable of ensuring energy efficiency. Further development of the RES in Greece and the European Union is taking place in conjunction with the liberalisation of the energy sector, speeding up the penetration of monopolistic groups and centralisation and, of course, pays the people dearly. In the second part of the bill with its eight articles, from 27 to 34, the Government comes to liberate the gas market in order to facilitate the privatisation of the Athens, Thessaloniki, etc. The legal and functional separation of supply and distribution sectors on the natural gas market follows PPC’s standard by separating it to IPTO, DEDENE, etc. The consequences for the people will, of course, be negative. They will pay, as will the employees in the companies, business profitability. In the third part, among others, there are arrangements for the national strategy for adaptation to climate change. These arrangements are part of the climate agreement. Each State shall present voluntary targets for the reduction or retention of emissions that will be reviewed every five years from 2018. The agreement focuses on the main issue, the energy issue and how it will contribute to achieving the objective of limiting the temperature. This is behind the aim of each country for profitable investments of their monopolies for larger shares in the world market and for hitting their competitors. In a capitalist economy where iron law is profit, climate change is the victim of this capitalist way of producing the ultimate law of profit. The national strategy, as you call it, for climate change by means of production to private individuals, freeing up the energy that is the main pillar, ultimately comes to serve the one-stop shop strategy and their competition. As far as Tritsis Park is concerned, the JRC has made multiple interventions because the situation has reached a border point. It is necessary to proceed immediately with projects for his rescue. The project with the landslide has created new problems in Tritsis Park and it needs a new study immediately to ensure its survival. The bill does not provide sufficient funding to make the necessary projects. Any funding will be cut off by the CFPs, which the municipalities deserve, and which are downhill anyway. For the three workers who have become eaten in piles which are almost two years old, nothing is foreseen at the moment. In Article 54, as representatives of civil society in the IGC, it is planned to be NGOs, the Joint Councils and others, all of these so-called ‘ park friends’. We know very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u130	I know very well, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u131	And we know very well, Mrs. Kafantari. Article 56 provides for a monthly payment which is not defined and noted that over three years it may be reduced. In addition, at the end of the article, any legitimate revenue is provided for as a source of income with what this does, of course, mean as to what legal income means. In Article 60 it transfers the passiveness of the old entity to the ADD and provides that the burden to be incurred in the ADD will be re-covered by the CFP. As far as the mosque is concerned, Mr President, we have already taken a positive position. The racism that has been heard here and here, this poison, does not work on the people and has proved it to date. The fascist, Nazi, criminal organisation Golden Dawn, imitators of Hitler, Metaxas, Papadopoulos once again showed their inhuman face and today on the occasion of the Islamic mosque contained in the bill. For capitalists partying on the people's back, they didn't say a word because it's their long hand. The JRC is a need and useful to the people for exploiting renewable energy sources. But this can be done by means of a state-owned, single, national energy operator in the context of a people's economy with the basic means of production socialised. This solution presupposes that the people take their luck in their own hands, establish their own power and, of course, move on to this path of development that is of interest to the people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u132	Mr. George Amyras, special speaker from the river has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the main issue of the draft law is a little unfair, which is how to deal with and exploit the country's energy potential, renewable energy sources and gas from the mosque debate. I'll talk about the mosque at the end, because I don't want to blame it. I mean: I want to take you a little walk to Kythnos, this wonderful cycladessi and make a short time trip, two centuries back, related to renewable energy sources and geothermality. Mr. Carras knows and I see him smiling. Well, by 1836 the beautiful island of Kythnos had - and still has - a seaside settlement called Loutras today and has two thermal sources. One has a temperature of 50 degrees Celsius and is beneficial for skin diseases, gynaecological issues, etc., the other has a lower temperature. The locals until 1836 weren't even in Loutra area. They said that there the so-called 'cabot water' - from Kakavos, the mountain next to - was that the devils were inside the earth, that bad things were working for us Greeks and that they would get out the hot water on the surface. Unfortunately, the Germans and Otto, who sent the royal architect Christian Hansen, who in 1836 with chemistry made analyses in the water and saw how beneficial they were to make the Loutras. Why am I telling you this? Because it is a phenomenon, an indication of Greek maliciousness, the Greek pathogens of public life among others. We had not exploited and took the country's energy system seriously so far. This draft law is very positive. It takes a step forward on these issues. As you can see, we rivers have no problem saying that the government is doing something right, when it does, of course, we have no problem saying negative things and we keep talking about it. However, in the years of the last few decades - to come to modern and modern times - we Greeks overreacted with some energy issues. We exaggerated the photovoltaics. We did not see to it that we are developing and encouraging with tax incentives Greek businesses and developing in the RES. At the same time, in other words, we have been talking about the last twenty years - Europeans have jumped - and not just in this area - because technology has evolved. We were planning projects cut off and not sufficiently studied, for example the 'HIOS' programme that we were going to sell in Germany photovoltaic energy. We planted in the fields, instead of seeds, photovoltaics and to see where we arrived today, in the year 2106, to discuss again who should be the country's long-term energy planning. Potami - and we are proud to say this - was, unfortunately, the only party, which, since the beginning of the parliamentary term, has tabled concrete proposals for the energy planning of this country. With Articles 42-45 of this draft law, we are pleased to see that the core of what we have said lies in a legislative text. However, there are questions. So we in the Potami are saying that we should not lose any more chances. We can be pioneers and not lurks in European energy and climate by setting the following objectives: energy saving and the interconnection of the islands. We have a very amazing polynesia, which, of course, has an energy approach cost - and not only - and that is why we had climbed the rails and the tiles, when you increased the VAT from 6% to 23% and then 24% on the islands. We say that we need to have a continuous increase in the RES by gradual closure of the lignite plants. We must not forget that lignite is one of our national minerals. We cannot turn his back on him, but it needs a direct disconnection for environmentalists - and not just - reasons, but also reasons for cost. We say that the interconnection of Crete and the rest of the islands must be promoted immediately - the Cyclades, fortunately, have already been interconnected - through a loop of submarine cables joining the interconnected system of the Continental country. We say that all the interconnection projects, but also every renewable energy project, should be in compliance with all environmental standards and European, of course, legislation. We should be careful not to fill the country with monstrous RES facilities, because along with the facilities there are also roads, there is a risk that landscapes, the environment and the unique nature of the Greek natural environment will be altered. We should also emphasise less widespread sources of energy, such as wave energy. With the geothermal fields in Niserro two centuries ago, almost, I told you what was going on. We also need to take a good look at new energy storage technologies as a organised society. There is the privileged field now of the energy economy. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that Greece is back. Norway, Denmark, Germany, which is now fully rehabilitated from nuclear power, has taken steps forward. We don't have to do the dirty work, people have done it for us. Another discovered the wheel, another and the fire. We don't have to burn or grind our hands. But we need to meet our commitments to Europe. Especially with the 20-20-2020 package, that is, by 2020, European countries should have 20% energy savings and 20% renewable energy production. We therefore say that we need to take the path that was created in December 2015 in Paris at the UN summit and all the members of climate change. Where is Greece? Unfortunately, we are a country of exaggeration and missed opportunities. But there are, for example, ways to strike a balance and from there on, move forward with positive steps. I shall present to you here a proposal drawn up by GREENPEACE, Minister of State, which is the so-called 'virtual net metering'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u134	It's in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u135	Oh, good. I had two at two the other day and another one at one today. Very good. But there is no extension to municipalities and schools...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u136	There is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u137	And in schools? On the rooftops?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u138	Sure. And the universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u139	And educational institutions. That's great! We therefore call 'yes' to sustainable development. We say 'yes' to the Renewable Energy Sources, we say 'yes' to responsible policies, which is why we will be voting in favour of the draft law. I want to testify for the Minutes and a processed river proposal. I have presented it at times to the committees, but I also want to see the plenary. It is from the field of climate change and energy of the river, excellent scientists working for it. Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I want to come to the matter of tense. First of all, let's say something. One cannot sing praise from the Step, here, of democracy dictatorial regimes such as the one of Metaxas. If today - beating wood - paranormal or metaphysically there was a 'Metaxas' in politics, none of us here would be. The shop would be closed, so I would say it popular, because it is being dealt with by those who refuse democracy. Now, what about the mosque? This is where we live a political surrealism. The Minister of National Defence, Mr. Kammenos, as Minister, grants or at least refuses to grant the land to the Botanic for the creation of the mosque. The same man as the leader of the party, the ANEL, says 'no, I will not vote'. How can you, Minister, and you work with such a genius - politically, I speak - personality? As Minister, he says 'take the land', as party leader says 'no, I will not vote'. And this, unfortunately, is in line with the Golden Dawn. Even this, ladies and gentlemen, should concern you with reviewing your position. In any case, the chestnuts will once again be removed from the fire by the opposition on human rights - not just. Shall we do a little backup? For ten years, since 2006, the Greek parliament has passed laws over and over in 2011 and has not implemented them. Why such cowardice? Why such a lack of political courage? There's a danger to the Islamic. Yeah. Well, there is for all of Europe, but it does not pass through the mosque. So, today that operates in Athens - and not only in other cities - in underground mosques and places of worship semi-illegal, there is transparency, that is where we need to be quiet and sure? So we must stick to our constitutional obligation, to Article 13, unrestricted exercise of religious duties and rights to every citizen and visiting this country. It is not only the transnational agreements we have signed and have not complied with with in various countries, it is mainly the cultural footprint of this democracy. Is Greek democracy afraid of a mosque, a mosque? Why is he afraid of it? We're not afraid of it. Instead, we fear dark connections, but after all - that is why we are here, and that is why the country's security services are also in place to prevent them from being a shield of possible Islamic fundamentalist risks, but we do not risk it from creating an area of worship. From its non-existence we are also at risk of the accumulation of right-wing, fascist, humiliating voices over a matter of religious, mainly and secondaryly political. Moreover, I cannot imagine how a temple of worship with a capacity of three hundred people and everyone and a 30-car parking is a danger to Greek democracy and Greek security. Whoever says that is very fearful. In conclusion, I would even suggest that we launch an international competition for the architectural design and construction of the mosque, in order to create a separate site that will not remind a classic mosque, but will remind the open Greek society, of course, by rules and security. On an issue I have, of course, objections to the environment, Mr Minister. I'm not sure about the environmental study. It doesn't appear anywhere to whom to entrust, how to do, and so on. Of course, there is environmental legislation, but the rapporteur's report also says so, Minister, is recasting environmental questions and that is why I am bringing them to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have something to tell you. On the 4th of August, the Greek democracy is stronger than ever. On August 4, it may decide on the Renewable Sources of Energy and on the creation of a religious area of worship of a person who is not Christian and orthodox. That's all I had to say, I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u140	There's no dentistry in the emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u141	Right, there's no dentistry. In any case, that is what I have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u142	To conclude, you are voting in principle on the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u143	We are voting in principle. I hope you've become a little wiser perhaps than something you've heard, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u144	So do we. We arrive at the special speaker from the Independent Greeks, Georgios Lazarides. The call by Mr. Amyras that the Minister of National Defence has granted the site is due to the fact that this site has been designated as a naval fortress for many years. In this sense, the consent of the Minister of National Defence is needed. Here, Mr Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. To restore the truth, this area was previously granted, has not been granted now. I would like to begin with a comment to the honourable Member, Mr Amyras, where he made some parallels with the Golden Dawn, etc. Dear George, the Golden Eagles walk on foot. Should you walk with your hands so as not to be identified in walking with the Chrysayites? Let's think about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u146	Okay, that's a little more complicated.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u147	Anyway, I want to tell you to keep an eye on some things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u148	Please, let's move on. Don't start a philosophical conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u149	I would also like to refer to another colleague from the Democratic Integration at the beginning of the procedure, who commented on our position on the subject of the mosque. Our attitude is not present. We, the Independent Greeks, are firm in our views. In May 2015, the Independent Greeks voted the same thing. They voted 'no' on the mosque. So what surprises you? We don't change and it's in the red lines we've said. I would also like to say something else here. This shows that the cooperation between the two parties is sound. We don't identify ourselves, we work together. We work together to save the country from the destruction that you have brought home with your policies. Of course, each of us has its positions, has its views and we are working together. This is healthy cooperation. What was an abnormal one, in order not to use another phrase hard - because democracy has nothing to do with extreme behavior and expressions, and I, on my way, know that I have never had extreme behaviors or expressions - that was the cooperation between PASOK and New Democracy. You were completely identified without any ideological or programmatic matching before working together. As far as our reservations about the mosque are concerned, I would like to say two things always within the context of logic and some concerns. The story may have come from the past with the mosque, because in the past the creation of a mosque had been voted on, not stretched - another mosque, another mosque, there is a great difference - but at that time the Mediterranean was not taken over. Now we see the Middle East and all our neighbours from there, we see situations that could not be imagined ten years ago when for the first time he came here to the Chamber and was voted on. Therefore, they changed the data. Now I, as a Greek, ask a question, and I say: what will this mosque be, for the Shia or for the Sunni? I mean, there's a risk that we could get in and get into internal disputes. If you go with one another, you go across the other. Although there are different groups within the same dogmas. Anyway, I don't want to go any further and get into such details. We, as Greeks, as their people have taken care of the refugees who have come from us from there without either examining religion or anything, can exercise their worshipable duties without being disturbed today. In any case, however, we stand against Article 35 on the mosque. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill which enters the House today in the form of an urgent procedure defines the new system of support for power stations from renewable energy sources and cogeneration of electricity and heat of high efficiency. A draft law, which defines the new framework for the operation and support of renewable energy sources in application of the European Union guidelines. The whole of the new arrangements will be an integrated intervention that will re-order the RES sector in depth with the main aim of being an attractive investment activity in the industry, but without creating holes in the EMO or much more huge burdens on the consumer. This legislative intervention sets out axes for issues which in any case depend on each other: a new EIA support model under the European Union guidelines, a reorganisation of the UN EIA account, both in terms of taxes and the coverage of deficits. The accounting balance of the special account shall be a Memorandum and shall be audited. New adjustment programme for the internal allocation of EMFF. For the distribution of EMCDDA, the Directorate-General for Competition of the DGCom is of special interest and controls our country. The basis of the new EIA support model is a combination of market price formation and tendering in application of the European Union guidelines. This combination will be achieved by setting an upper limit for the feed-in premium of each RES technology and then carrying out competitions for the installation of a specific power. The tenders will result from the investors, depending on how much lower than the maximum price is the premium they accept to collect and take the green light for the realisation of their investments. In the PV sector, in fact, the first pilot tender for a PV plant is to be carried out immediately. For the second axis of intervention, i.e. the reorganisation of the Special Account, the main change is that it will not be the EMSAR, i.e. the consumers that will cover any deficits created in the Special Account. On the contrary, other mechanisms are created on the basis of the analysis carried out by the operation of the day-to-day market, which will balance deficits. The balance of UNDP deficits is constantly being demanded by lenders, as otherwise the EMFF, the Specific Air Pollution Reduction End, should be increased. Based on the existing system, EMCDDA is the tool to cover the deficits of the Special Account. A key change is that EMSMAR, namely consumers, will cease to be the tool for balance of deficits. On the other hand, a fixed price is set for the EMFF, which will only increase where the RES Special Account is to be charged by new RES to be established. There's going to be a new revenue for the Special Account, which the supply companies will pay. This revenue will correspond to the part resulting from the drop in the system limit price resulting from the penetration of RES into the system. The calculation method is that all RES producers are charged with a special fee of 3% on the pre-tax sale price of energy to the system operator in favour of the Special Account. The truth is that a large part of EMFF is not channelled to RES as it should be. A high percentage of EMFF is not returning to RES. This reality cannot be called into question, but the changes brought by the draft law are moving in the right direction, leading to market rationalisation and a reduction in EMFF, with significant benefits for the consumer. The other possible deficits from the existing RES will be mainly covered by power suppliers. It is known that the large drop in the system limit price, although largely due to the entry of the RES into the system, increases the needs of the Special Account and therefore, on the basis of the current model, increases the distance to be covered by the EMSAR. At the same time, however, the reduction in the limit price is greatly increasing the profit margins of power suppliers, as it is the wholesale price at which the electricity is purchased. The logic behind the government's approach is rather than paying the EMCDDA, that is, the consumer, the reduction of the limit price, to pay it by the suppliers who benefit from it. As regards the provisions on wind parks, we should mention a significant regulation as the RES projects, which have signed sales contracts by the end of 2015, ensure the old prices, if they are constructed and put into operation, normally or test until 30 June 2018. There is provision for the future of the old winds, which have been operating for fifteen - twenty years, and the conventions they have signed soon expire. These investors will have two options. Or they will continue to operate beyond the 20th century as they stand, but by selling energy, not at current prices, but at wholesale prices, or at repowering, by renewing the equipment and signing new contracts with new terms. For the new procedures and conditions relating to new investments, the bill states that this will start in 2017, after there has been a relevant decision by RAE and hopefully, in this way, that any uncertainty regime and that the PV market, which awaits a resumption after a time stagnation, will be pleased. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] With regard to biomass, biogas projects, the investors welcomed the withdrawal of the Ministry from the initial position of a significant reduction in guaranteed prices for new projects and their adaptation to more realistic levels. However, what we have to stand for is Articles 51 to 60, which provide for the establishment of a management body which is primarily responsible for the maintenance, storage, operation and development of the Tritsis Park. The new entity shall be required to prepare an economic viability study within four months of taking up its duties. An important regulation is the implementation of a programme of integrated collection, recycling and disposal of waste produced in the park, ensuring resources from the reward fees as well as the use of the indoor stores. Grants from the green fund are also provided for, their inclusion in public investment programmes of the Ministry of Environment, Energy, Education and Interior, as well as in ESDP programmes. I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. The resources of the institution are also intended to come from the proportional distribution of the CFPs, which are intended for the municipalities in the Attica region, with expenditure being a compensation for environmental damage in the Attica environment, caused by the urban operation and activity of the municipalities, which has caused responses from the CDE, important reactions to a certain point of view, but we all have to think about this issue in a common reasoning alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u150	Finish this, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u151	I'm closing, Mr. President. It is indeed an environmental treasure, but the image it presents today is degrading. Conservation of greenery is almost nonexistent. Trees have been dried up and with what we have said, we believe that we will relive it and be able to function as it should be. Finally, I would like to say that we support the bill, except for Article 35, which concerns the mosque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u152	We have reached the last special speaker, Mr Saridis, from the Central Association. Immediately after that, the Minister responsible, Mr. Skourletis, will take the floor. The series of parliamentary representatives will then begin. We will go in the order of the parties unless colleagues do not want it. For example, Mrs Kafantari may want to speak lately to answer to everyone. But I have to move on. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, today I choose to address you, because I am sure you have misunderstood, you have overlooked some very important truths. Today, on the last day of the operation of Parliament in view of the August holidays, perhaps it is time for us all to make our self-criticism, do your own self-criticism, and understand that the rule of Greece is not just a personal, individual matter. You must finally understand that the effort to get out of this storm, in which the country has been found, is a collective, group effort. It is in the interests of the country that all the democratic forces of Hellenism agree and agree, with the aim of advanceing this place here and the people who live in it. They look logically and self-evidently what I'm saying. It is certainly in line with the official positions of both the government and the Prime Minister, who seek cooperation. You're asking us to put our backs on and we're doing it. We support what we would support and vote against what we would vote against, even if others were in your position, even if the government of the country was here today. We support the right and fair ones. The mistakes, the wrongs and the malicious ones are denounced and we are fighting them. That's what you need to understand. The attitude of the Central Association depends on nothing but what is good for the country, what will relieve the Greek taxpayer, what will make the Greeks again show confidence in his own country, in the system that governs him. Our decisions are always made in the light of the pretext of the country. Unfortunately, however, either inexperience or indifference, you have allowed the legislative process to become degrading for us members of the opposition. You are not respecting us, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple. You do not respect neither the Constitution nor the rules of Parliament. You do not care to legislate effectively, but you are trying to undo the problems by legislating on the procedures that the constitutional legislator has predicted for rare and exceptional cases. You've made that exception a rule. To be more specific, I ask you this: The problem with Antonis Tritsis park is indeed urgent to solve it. We know that, too. But what does this have to do with the designation of Articles 51 to 60 of the current bill as an 'extended'? These articles are the solution proposed by the Minister. It is not the solution that will certainly work either with which citizens or local authorities agree. It is simply what the Minister thought of as a solution and without discussing it with anyone, it describes it as an urgent one, so that it does not make it possible for anyone else to have an opinion and express an opinion, except the Minister himself. But you had been consulted and other things you brought us to the vote. This could be called a mockery. You were committed to taking into account the local society, its citizens and its representatives. I have this commitment on paper, on questions that we have made as a Centro Association for Antonis Tritsis Park. But are your words worthy of you? Do you think you are consistent with your words? How can we be chasing you for months and months, but also for many other colleagues from other parties, to figure out what your design for Antonis Tritsis Park and you to escape, giving vague and vague answers, which in no way prepared us for yesterday's surprise? This surprise, you know, was also in the form of extortion, as according to the welcoming tactics you have in almost all the bills - and we can see now clearly - you put in a good one who wants to be okay with his conscience has to vote for it, but you also put a number of unrelated things that no one pressured you or anyone forced you to incorporate them into these bills. Are you doing this for ease? Do you do so because you do not have confidence in the integrity and consistency of your parliamentary group, or do you just think that this is normal? Didn't you finally hear the respected President of this House, Mr. Voutsi, when he told you that at some point you must stop treating yourself in this derogatory way in democracy? How much is it, Mr President? What is the number of bills to be voted on in this Chamber in the form of an emergency, to say at some point 'Is that enough, are we done'? We said we've broken all the records in this parliamentary term. Today's bill by the Ministry of the Environment is below the expectations of those involved in renewable energy. Indeed, it is in the right direction, but it has many gaps, many mistakes and some of its failures will concern us very soon as problems that no one had imagined and that arose along the way. The government can say, of course, that it did not have any involvement in these problems. But all of this will be problems which will prove to be unavoidable if the parliamentary procedure had been followed. In the first and second part of the bill and in particular in Articles 1 to 26, a fundamental change is indeed underway. After the Paris Conference on Climate Change, it is very pleasant that Greece chooses to legislate on the new regime for supporting electricity production from renewable energy sources and to start our way towards our gradual discharge of lignite. It is known that Greece has unlimited potential in the energy production sector and this is mainly because of its geographical position. The aim of having 18% of energy consumed from renewable energy sources is the first step. Indeed, in our decision to follow Europe in the joint effort to tackle climate change, we have all Greeks and all Greeks all. But the behaviour of the state towards the pioneers of this effort did not help to consolidate this desire to protect the environment and to become our common conscience, our common aim, the reduction of pollutants. What does one have to say in this bill about the forty-two thousand of our fellow people who have put photovoltaics on their roofs, who you treat them like industrialists? Nothing. Therefore, this draft law cannot be considered as complete. It is rough and we hope that it will solve more problems than it will create. I ask you directly: Is there any chance that we will close companies in this Chamber today? Is there any chance that there will be no investment in the energy sector in our country from what we are doing here today? You manage, Mr President of the Ministry of the Environment, with your bizarreness and the disgrace you show in the parliamentary procedures, not to be able to know at this time whether mathematical formulas, for example, to which you are asking us to sign, are right. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] The black hole of PPC and the deficit of PPC, after the honourable Member explained to you that this fine will end in the pocket of the citizens, is another reason why we cannot give you a white cheque. Let us look for the sake of the debate and the rest of the bill, this urgent bill. In the third part, with Articles 35 to 50, you are strengthening reasonable suspicions and, in fact, you are demonstrating the claim of my colleague, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Carras, that there is an agreement between the Ministers to accept all that is irrelevant to their draft laws, so that they too can lay their own provisions in no matter what their ministries do, even in international circumstances. You've exceeded every measure. Even in these international conditions, you are trying to add the three magic words 'and other provisions' which do not solve your formal problems. Article 35 concludes a process that began many years ago and will last for so many more for the same reason that your predictions and designs for Antonis Tritsis Park will fall out. You are not in agreement with local communities. The arguments of the type "Because we'll make the mosque there, the area will be green" or "Because we'll make the mosque there, close all the others that work illegally" or "So we'll better control the Islamic element in our country" are all municipal arguments and do not stand in the test of dialogue. The only reason they're making it there is because at some point some people tried to talk about that place. That's the reality. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We are also concerned about the fact that Shia, Sunni, Drouzoi, different religious groups will be forced to gather in a space, in the same place, into the urban fabric. Do different dogmas unite each other? I'm afraid on a daily basis we'll have conflicts. We hope, Minister, that you take all this into account and your planning will include in the possible problems that will arise. In the context of the well-established position of the Centro Association for Religion and Free Expression, we can only support Article 35. We know, however, that the sloppyness of the previous ones in design and the sloppiness of yours in execution will cause many problems in the botanical area. Ladies and gentlemen, the speed at which we are called upon to understand and judge the provisions of this bill, which contains a lot of technical specifications and mathematical formulas, does not allow us to evaluate the first two parts. We will have to vote 'yes' because it attempts a new system. It is humanly impossible to be sure within twenty-four hours that there will be no mistakes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask for your tolerance for half a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u154	It's pressing today, Mr. Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u155	The thing is, forty-two thousand of our fellow citizens who planted voltaics on their roofs, as well as some of the RES companies, have nothing to hope for from this bill. The 'yes' in principle is critical and with serious reservations about many articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, too. The Minister, Mr. Panos Skourletis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. However, in relation to the last thing you said, Mr. Centrons' representative, on photovoltaics on roofs, I would say that nothing changes in relation to the former regime. I don't know what you mean, then, when you say they hope something about this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u158	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u159	So you wanted more pay? In any case, ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been the subject of an exhaustive debate in the past few months, through meetings with market operators, with electricity operators, UNGO, IPTO, RAE. It is precisely because twice a key part which reflected the logic of our proposals came out for consultation, we had this climate in yesterday's presence in the committee. That is to say, we had the acceptance and consent of a large majority of the bodies relating to renewable energy sources to the content of this bill. The commitment of the country from 1-1-2016 to align itself with the European guidelines and to go to the new framework for the operation of the EIAs, so it came in your hands at the end of July. So you can blame us because it didn't happen two, three months ago. You cannot blame us, however, on the very large and important content of this bill, on the fact that we did not want to refer it back after Parliament closed down for the summer holidays. Several of the opposition colleagues were ironed, saying "investors are waiting in line". They obviously have no idea what is going on in this area, because there are dozens of investment projects, which concern wind and photovoltaics, which expected to see the new market conditions, regardless of whether for those who have already signed sales contracts, they are not affected by the new framework and have sufficient time to complete these investments. So in a smooth, transitional way we are going to a new situation, which will benefit everyone and save resources. The way renewable energy is penetrating is a classic example of a distorting way of development with excessive yields, guaranteed prices. State-owned was the way to develop, and often there were investment projects that not only enjoyed the highest guaranteed returns, of 18%, 20%, 25%, in previous years, but also received aid from the previous investment law. Fortunately, the new law on investment exempts the investments concerned and only provides for aid for investments in the biomass sector. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a classic example of a lack of national planning the way renewable energy sources have developed in our country. This is, of course, burdened with and translated into very specific political responsibilities of the previous governments, but responsibilities which have a social cost. They all referred to the high prices charged by our accounts and related to the charge of the so-called EMCDDA. So it was not an option that had no social impact. So we are going today to move from the system of fixed guaranteed prices to a new system for strengthening the specific types of energy by introducing competitive procedures. At the same time, however, I would also like to refer to some aspects of national energy planning, which is currently, in one way or another, being implemented. For example, for us it is crucial to be able to incorporate the decisions of the Paris Conference into our national planning, to be able - and obviously the question of penetrating renewable energy sources directly into our energy mix - to respond to the issue of climate change. At the same time, we are consistent and believe that we will also overcome the commitments made by the country for 2020 and then for 2030, in relation to the penetration of these forms of energy. It is our aim at this moment that we are actually living in a transition period to a new market model. Very soon we will be able, immediately after Parliament's holidays, to bring the bill on the so-called 'target model'. I would like to stress, however, what our perception is of how this market works. You know that over the past few months we have fought a political battle successfully, and we have ensured the public character of the networks. The new IPTO legislation, which provides for the ownership of the networks by PPC, is being implemented and provides for 51% of PPC's public participation in the new company. At the same time, we reject unequivocally pressures that come from the past that concern the privatisation of 17% of PPC. It is very often mentioned here in the Chamber the well-known "Asset Development Plan" of the TIED, which has referred to this commitment of the previous governments. We want to be clear about this. We do not agree, despite the fact that the government of New Democracy and PASOK had transferred to the assets of the GOI, 17%, to lower the percentage of the government. We are clear about this. We have said that to all tons. Indeed, in this Chamber last week, we said that it has no more meaning, for the sake of perception of the new way of operating the market, to proceed with such a reduction. Because you see that, in any case, with the implementation of NOMEs, we have entered a new phase of open market. The reallocation of the shares held by each undertaking, anyway, is taking place. It is probably an ideality if it is not a certain perception of some interests to insist on privatising 17% of PPC. It is precisely because we are opposed to a market that PPC will not have a decisive role to play, that we also annulled the law on "little PPC". Of course, there are people in this Chamber who have basically become a porte - parole of privatizations, defend them at every stage. At least this shows a consistency in terms of their choices over the past period. Ladies and gentlemen, all these months we have followed a multi-dimensional energy policy, a policy that opens bridges with our neighbours, a policy that turns the country into an energy hub. The agreements with Iran, Egypt, Israel and Cyprus are well known. The large projects of the gas pipelines are known. Today we are pleased to be able to say that the project to implement the TAP in Greece will be the first to be implemented within this very large and strategically important pipeline. Within this bill we have mentioned the relationship between the contract and the TAP, which provides for compensation for the public land through which the pipeline passes and compensation for the public forests. That was not self-evident and was not in the previous contract. Of course you know that through the negotiation we have achieved an increase of the compensatory amounts from 11 million to 32 million for the three regions from which the pipeline passes. Ladies and gentlemen, with the transitional provisions laid down in the bill, we have all taken into account at the moment the way in which various investment projects are being implemented. We cannot, however, go on talking about the fact that the public undertaking in the renewable energy sector has been a reality, even though it was the first to introduce such investment projects. Is that why there is no political responsibility from the previous administrations, from the previous ministers? Is it possible for PPC's share of Renewables to be below 2% in a country which has the highest penetration rates of these forms of energy? Isn't that what you're gonna hear? Top issue in our debate is what is related to the deficit of the UN, the Special Account going for the RES. Things are clear. In front of us, we had three choices. The first option was to go to a new 'cut' - two have already been made - by multiplying the insolvency of the state against investors who knew certain terms and rules - regardless of whether they were in favour of them - and without any responsibility, they suddenly found that they were changing from one day to the next. We have not opted for this because we would essentially dynamise the prospect of penetrating RES in the electricity market. The other option was to increase EMCDDA to consumers. At this particular juncture, that is, we would have another burden. If you want, suggest it to us to hear it, because no specific proposal has been heard. What has been done was a description of situations. We could also choose to close the deficit in a gradual way by putting an end to the favoured suppliers. We have said this yesterday - and I repeat it here in plenary - that only on the side of the JRC has this proper labelling been heard. Don't think, Mr. President, that I'm provoking you if I say any good things to you, because that is what must be said. I repeat, therefore, that it was only on the JRC's side that the suppliers have benefited from the previous years from the time the RES was placed on the system as a priority at the system limit price. Because, if there were no such quantity, then there would be an increase in the system limit price, so that is the price that PPC itself buys and procures. So it is absolutely logical to have this fee for suppliers. Ladies and gentlemen, too many have referred to the real serious issue of PPC’s delays and have linked it to the government’s choices. First of all, none of the Government's choices under the last law have yet to be implemented. So we cannot say that we have had a negative impact of measures already implemented. What we have at the moment is this huge sum of billions due. This is not more than 3 billion, because we cannot add up the over 650 million currently being regulated. It's wrong to read the numbers like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u160	Minister, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u161	But we are indeed talking about a great amount, which is precisely the footprint, as we said yesterday, of the policies that the Greek people have suffered in recent years. When SYRIZA is taking over, GDP has declined in this country by 25%, when 30% to 40% of the available income of the largest part of society has been reduced, you cannot see who is responsible for the fact that today PPC is being pressed by this huge volume of dues to it. And, in any case, I read the statements made by PPC's CEO, which is referred to as a follow-up. Indeed, if PPC is facing this pressure today, it is due to the policies of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK. There have been reports that we are making special arrangements for staffing RAE. We have done nothing but implement the existing legislation that applies to the independent authorities. The only derogation that exists is remuneration, but it is also related to the way in which the members of the independent authorities are paid. Still, you're talking about creating impressions. I consider Mr Amyras' reference to be very correct, as he began his speech on the need to exploit geothermality. This will be one of the bills that we will bring in 2016, so that we can be able to use a truly unexploited source of energy to our place. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes there are some proposals that seem very small, but within them they have a great deal of content. I am referring to the proposal to transfer to the region of Alexandra Avenue refugees. Those who have participated in the struggles for the protection of these historic monuments in previous years know how satisfying we are today on the basis of the demand from people who have given life. Here let me make a reference to a person who has linked with his scientific presence and political action his name to these apartments. I am referring to Annie Vrychea, which has not been among us in some years. However, there was an example of the fighter of the Renewable Left, the scientist who combined the service of the theory and knowledge with specific alternatives to how we view the city and how we should use its historical monuments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u162	Minister, you must finish. Today the limits are too narrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u163	Indeed, Mr President, the limits are narrow, but it is even closer not to make such references in this House. Finally, I would like to refer to the amendment to the Tritsis Park. I understand that the problems of the inhabitants of western Athens are not on the side of the New Democracy. You've never done well, just like you won't do right now. So I see you guys are shaky when you hear. 'But why - he says - urgent?' Because a park breaks up, deceives, which you know well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u164	We live in West Athens, you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u165	So you should resign from us because we have not previously brought such an amendment before us. However, you have the difficulty. But what I do not understand is the lies that are heard from other aspects, when it has failed a whole particular shape, which the former body responsible for political leadership and forces from local government has failed. It is not only Mr Zenito - Mayor of Ilio - who expresses the views of the mayors of the region. Because I have met them all and the overwhelming majority agrees with this regulation. This is a regulation which is not general and vague, but provides for specific sources of funding. If you think that operators who manage such areas should not have managers, I wonder how you and people on the market do not understand how this space can work, take off its expenses and have a viable plan that really makes it a jewel for western Athens. This will be done by participating in the board of the Polytechnic, with the participation of the Agricultural University, with people from local society and local government. Furthermore, with specific resources coming from the Green Fund, from the budget of the Ministry of the Environment, but also from part of the CAP for local government, which is not collected. So instead of welcoming a processed and complete proposal at this time, you say to us: 'Get it for a later', obviously why you do not understand the anxietys of the people in the region. I conclude by saying that the group that expresses its Nazi, fascist views, the Golden Dawn Group, wanted to honour the anniversary of the coup on 4 August by once again having another black show. I think that the answer is also in favour of this amendment on the point, which is a vote in favour of rights, in favour of democracy, for all citizens in the country to be able to exercise their adorable duties freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, too. The allegedly requested a short-day absence permit from abroad from 18 to 26 August 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u167	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Excellency, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u168	Tolerance, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today one of the very important objectives of the government, which concerns the energy security of our country and the increase in the share of renewable energy sources in electricity production, is being implemented. It is best implemented at cost-benefit levels for society. Today comes a bill for a new democratic energy model, not only linked to social and environmental needs at national level, but also adapted to the country's commitment to the European Union to participation of RES in energy consumption by 20% by 2020, which also verifys our position as a modern European state with ecological and social consciousness. An adjustment of the country's energy planning to European data, which has not been possible until now under the responsibility of the old political system, was, on the one hand, a commitment to its own commitments and, on the other, a lack of long-term and processed energy plan. So the country remained in conditions of a confusing energy landscape to date. Speaking of a long-term energy plan, it is important to say here that this government is listening to the views of operators and individuals, taking them into account and moving forward with them in the necessary improvements and additions. Dozens of bodies and individuals were expressed through open procedures by combining the final text, which is being tabled today for vote. I will not go into the technical details because they have been heard, but what I have to say is that we are seeing a bill here today, which will, in general speaking, play a fundamental role in the country's development prospects for a fair, clear and with a long-term institutional framework. We see the support given to the operation of the Electricity and Heat Symbols by achieving multiple benefits both in energy saving and in improving energy efficiency. We see the establishment of a safe and fair investment environment for investors with specific implementation schedules, but also with a parallel targeting for the least possible end-user charge from the Specific Pollution Reduction Feedings with the use of centralised mechanisms. We see the introduction of innovative methods of calculating aid to achieve better control over total costs and to minimise the effects of excessive or very small compensation for energy producers while ensuring the public interest and the consumer. We see incentives for industrial plants to modernise their energy equipment using natural gas, reducing production costs, and thus limiting air pollution. In previous years, natural gas was used to produce electricity from private producers' units by charging energy costs with the corresponding social consequences. We see a clear intention of complying with and limiting environmental infringements, so that with a separate provision, the inspectors of the Environment Inspectorate and the technical and support staff of the HMG are excluded from the 60-mile limit per year. Until now, the restriction has not only operated as a brake on the AAR in carrying out the most necessary checks, but also put at risk co-financed projects and international programmes. We see the possibility for consumers to choose a supplier and the ability of islands to choose a supplier, with a view to price rationalisation and a view to bringing consumers closer to the European average. A typical example of the intention of this bill and the government's guidance is the management plan for Tritsis Park. With the new provisions introduced by the government, full and effective management of the body is ensured and with the participation of local government, with a dominant objective of public interest, away from opaque phenomena which led to the current operational deadlock. With emphasis on the functioning of forms of social economy and always according to its nature, the new organisation will deal with the protection of the park and with pedagogical activities focused on environmental awareness. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill really attempts to correct the distortions and nuisances of the past and helps reduce the energy costs for the consumer, protect the environment, improve the quality of life of citizens, modernise existing production stations, create many new jobs by re-establishing a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises in the construction sector, and that is why I am voting in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, too. Mrs. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed regrettable and extremely disgraceful for the institution of Parliament and the role of Members of Parliament that important legislation should be tabled, such as what we are debating today, just before the House closes, literally at only one. Indeed, in this particular case the draft law that was posted in the public consultation was quite different from what we have to discuss today in plenary. You had the nerve the other day to table a piece of legislation that started from thirty pages, it has reached the main text to be 100 pages and you have added other provisions relating to very important issues, such as Tritsis Park, for which we have asked many topical questions, Minister, concerning green energy and other provisions. In fact, at the last moment, you have created a multi-brand plan, to which you add amendments. This, as you know, is not called a serious way of legislating. I begin with the provisions concerning the new support system for RES power stations and the co-production of high-efficiency electricity and heat. Those arrangements are in any case mandatory harmonisation with the guidelines adopted by the European Commission in August 2014. The anticipation of the deposit of the bill led the entire market to substantially freeze and in 2016 no new investment initiative in the field of RES is taking place. You are coming today, almost two years after the publication of the European Commission guidelines, without having been formally approved by the European Commission for the proposed draft law and legislating retrospectively from 1-1 to 2016 - we already have August - providing for fifteen decisions and opinions by RAE and sixteen ministerial decisions, necessary to implement the regulations of the draft law, which will apply until 31-12-2016. In any case, since 1-1-2017, the obligation to compete will apply, and the preparation of these also requires several ministerial decisions and contractual texts. What, then, is the fear that there is very reasonable? That the first competitions will be conducted towards the end of 2017 and the contracts, on the basis of them, will begin to be signed in mid-2018. This makes the essential freeze, which has begun since the beginning of 2016, last until the middle of 2018. So if you think that this is how you solve the problems of the market and restore investment interest in the renewable energy sector, you probably have the wrong impression. The only projects, Minister, which will possibly proceed are those that had signed an energy sale contract by the end of 2015 and remain under the existing fixed price scheme, if they are electricityed by June 2018. These projects are now valuable in that they are the only ones to support the market for at least two and a half years. That is why we must ensure that they are not prevented from being implemented by tight administrative timetables. That is why, Minister, they should remain in a stable price system, if they are electricityed by the end of December 2018. In other words, look at whether the deadline can be extended for six months. This addition is important. Otherwise, the banks will have a great deal of hesitation to lend the businesses. You have the margin even now, if you want, to give a solution to this issue. The only regulation, perhaps, of the bill under discussion that has some interest is that of reducing the deficit in the UNHCR. Indeed, one could recognize you, Minister, the intentions of resolving this important issue arising from the distorted and unregulated development of the RES market in recent years. Indeed, some of the deficit could be covered by electricity suppliers once the consumer already raises the heavy burden through the accounts, but also by producers undergo exceptional reductions in their revenues. Does anyone, however, wonder: has there been a study prior to which to determine the level of the deficit that suppliers can take, and especially PPC, which substantially affects the financial assets on the energy market? Are there any insurance margins to make the arrangement legally and in line with the case law of the JV? Is there a guarantee that the cost will not be passed on to consumers? PPC's Vice President said so yesterday. I fear that this is an incomplete and succinct arrangement, which will unfortunately not have the expected results. On the issues of the liberalisation of the gas market. First of all, you are bringing these provisions very late without any prior consultation and without any representative of the existing PSCs being invited to the committee, in which foreign investors are involved. I would like to point out, however, that in this case you are driving the Greek State's relationship with foreign investors in blurred waters, since you are not dealing with the question of limiting the exclusiveity of the existing PPAs from thirty to fifteen years. As you know very well, the restriction will certainly be a matter of compensation. You do not provide any incentive for the direct activation of new distribution and marketing companies in the geographical areas of Central Greece, eastern Macedonia, Thrace, Central Macedonia and the Peloponnese, where the DEPA has already made investments totalling EUR 148 million, having already built networks of some five hundred kilometres, which are in fact inactive. Finally, let me refer to the provisions concerning RAE. How much you want the independent authorities to exist as a government has been seen by your current control behaviour. At the Energy Regulatory Authority, despite the initial efforts of your predecessor, Mr. Lafazan, to limit the scope of its operation, even by law, you understood the necessity of its existence even slowly. Unfortunately, however, your actions are also aimed at further deterioration the role of the independent authority and limiting independence. We've already seen it with the S.H.I.E.L.D. So you are now proposing to recruit forty-five overall partners with project or fixed-term contracts by way of derogation from any general or specific provision. That is, without there being any security differences to ensure integrity and credibility in the whole process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u171	Mrs. Kefaliannis, you're clear. Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u172	I understand that you do not want to help the RAE's work, but to help your well-known party army. Minister, in Article 37 you say that recruitment is carried out by the company's board of directors. The RAE is neither a company nor a board of directors. So I close by saying the bill comes in a hurry. We had a very important opportunity to see how our country could deal with the issues of energy market, the challenges of climate change over the coming years, and also to deepen the energy issues through a constructive and fruitful debate. Unfortunately, you have missed another opportunity for reasons that, as we understand, serve only your personal and party pursuits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u173	The State Secretary, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis, has the floor. And I would ask once again, ladies and gentlemen, for the time being to be respected, given the narrow or inappropriate time limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed article 35 of the draft legislation is the product of a coordinated and long-term work between the relevant ministries. At this point I would like to thank the Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, who, in coordination with all the ministries, reached this provision so as to finally implement the building of the Mosque. I would point out again that this article does not re-establish the institutional framework for the creation of the Mosque. They are regulations which must be taken in this way so that the bureaucracy that exists on various issues is dismantled. We are not now taking the political decision to establish the Mosque. This was done by Law 3512/2006. This provision, therefore, aims to settle, regulate various procedural actions, to speed up and facilitate individual administrative issues relating to the construction of the Islamic Mosque of Athens in the specific provisions of Law 3512/2006 and its amendments, in order to complete this project without further delay after a decade of its legislative provision. That's the reality. The rest is left to your judgment. Therefore, our Government's special concern, as in all the capitals of the European Union there is at least an Islamic mosque under various legal regimes, but always under the self-evident guarantees of the religious freedom of the ECHR, the United Nations Charter and other international human rights treaties, except Athens. The provisions of the previous law, of Law 3512, which was first introduced in the post-war Greek legal order, have been preceded by the necessary regulatory framework for the establishment and operation of a Muslim mosque in Attica, so that it is possible to carry out the worship of Muslims living in the wider region of Athens, national and foreign, in the appropriate way for this religious way. The history of the construction of the Islamic Mosque in Athens, however, starts from old - very long ago, I would say - after pre-war of the Greek state had adopted two similar laws, which provided for the creation of Muslim mosques in Athens and Piraeus - I am talking about 1890 and n. The European Parliament's Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Cedentials and Immunities, the Verification of Cedentials and Immunities, the Verification of Cedentials and Immunities, the Verification of Cedentials and Immunities and the Verification of Cedentials of Cedentials of Cedentials After the year 2006 legislative intervention comes to solve a gap that existed in dealing with this particular issue and which the Greek state had to face with the members of this religious community, which is not just foreign, since a large number of its members in Athens have Greek citizenship. Today the construction and operation of Islamic mosques in Athens is based on the need for a rapid resolution of various practical and institutional problems faced by religious communities in this religion. Its construction will best ensure religious action and continuity. This is the responsibility and care of the Greek state, guaranteeing the right to all independent citizens to exercise their religious duties, regardless of religion and always according to the requirements of the Constitution regarding religious freedom. In addition, the care of the Greek state is not once manifested by the construction of the mosque, but by a permanent and permanent way, i.e. by granting the use of state property and, above all, by the continuous responsibility of the State for the orderly functioning of this area through the legal determination of its administration. Above all, however, this legislative initiative aims to remedy the lack of an area where both Greek Muslims and migrants will be able to worship their god and perform their worshipable duties with dignity and under the conditions laid down by their religion, so as to stop the unacceptable phenomena of overconcentration of believers in inappropriate, unauthorised private spaces being observed. To put an end to the informal dozens of mosques, which do not guarantee proper health and safety conditions, ladies and gentlemen. In the end, they do not allow for any inappropriate infrastructures to exercise their worship. The debts of the favoured state, and much more of the Greek, are to ensure them. Its construction will put an end to weakening the international image and credibility of our country - Mr President, I would just like two minutes - both bilaterally and to numerous international organisations and international fora, in which there is regular dialogue on issues of religious freedom. Such a declining image of Greece at the same time weakens all of its negotiating arguments at international level for burning issues and the international promotion of our country in the middle of the multi-aisled wider geographical area. In the current circumstances and cases, the exceptional and exceptional international conditions, it is obvious that the immediate need to vote on the proposed provisions for our country is to strengthen its international presence and scope with respect for human rights. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] There is a great debate and it has emerged in the House today that it is more the mosque and more the mosque. It's exactly the same. The mosque has Greek roots and poorly there are fellow Members who want to say that by using the word mosques we imply another function. So I refer them to the word mosque and its tymology in the Greek dictionary of George Babiniotis and the Great Dictionary of the Greek language of Dimitrios Dimitrakos, where the word Muslim mosque - and it is correct - lawfully, tymologically, linguistically and neologically reflects the purpose that this place serves as a place of prayer and is no other than the word temple. Why use the word mosque? It's not Greek. So in the Botanic, then, a Muslim mosque will be built, namely, a prayer area for Muslims, such as the church is a place of prayer and worship for us Orthodox Christians. Those who have and invoke Greek and Greek, let the dictionaries of the modern Greek language also open. The second thing I would like to mention is that we have raised issues with the Muslim minority, and it is a serious matter, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u175	And with this to close, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u176	The Greek citizens, regardless of religion, enjoy a status of equality and equality. In this context, the Greek state - by applying the Constitution and respecting the provisions of the 1923 Lausanne Treaty, as well as the provisions of international and European law on the protection of human rights and minorities - designs and implements a coherent policy in the last 20 years. The members of the Muslim minority are self-determined at individual level, but collective ethnic identification is not recognised, as a common denominator of the three components of the minority, and in particular the term of designation under the Treaty, is religion rather than ethnic origin. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that I was not surprised by today's report of the Golden Dawn on 4 August. All Greeks celebrated the restoration of freedom on July 24th, the Golden Dawn on August 4th. She's demarcated herself. I believe that the word 'constitution' is unknown to those who praise the dictatorship. Besides, they never wanted democracy. We are to defend democracy and make all those changes that will strengthen and give more democracy to our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u177	So do we. Mrs. Helen Zaroulia from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, I would ask your tolerance for such an important bill, such as what we are discussing today. And I want to thank you in advance. Mr Minister, you and the rest of the so-called constitutional arch that you will be voting in favour of the amendment on the building of the mosque. Do you have the hindrance to ask for the opinion of the Greek people? And put aside the characterizations, because nobody listens to you anymore! I would also like to make a comment on all these unscrupulous things that have been heard by government lips, which, among other things, has been told by the Minister for Education, that what we are saying is unconstitutional. He probably hasn't understood the constitution. And I will stand to the point where he wanted to address the anger of the Greeks, saying there are mosques. If they catch fire, he says, the illegal mosques will burn like mice. Which is hypocrisy! And I say this because I didn't see him so affectionate when we see our forests burned by Turkish agents, and not only, who are sometimes arrested, but then released without any, but no consequence. On the other hand, the Green Guardian Maniotis gave us lessons of democracy, asking for our preventive suffocation. Listen, listen! And he's pretending to be the democrat! We will see to it that we send him our speeches in advance, so that he can see to them. The People's Association - Golden Dawn, since its first entry into the House, in 2012, is fighting against your devastating plans with timely questions, such as one of the ones it had submitted in February 2013 by our MEP Mr. George Germenis to the then competent Minister of the previous Nea Democrat Republic - PASOK - not to forget - Mr. Tsiara. In December of this year, however, even after the illegal imprisonment of our Chief and of our competitors, who were still free, we held a protest in the Botanic region, and we disagreed with our compatriots in this crime you are working with. I remember asking a rhetorical question at that time: why are you, as democrats, not making a referendum? So I can immediately give the answer that you're all foreign masters pawns. Slogans like "Not in the Islamisation of Greece", "Not in the new Turkish rule", "Turkish mosques never and nowhere" were stifling the atmosphere. We expressed the will of the Greek people, which you write in the oldest of your shoes. We have tabled many written questions on the matter, which, of course, remain unanswered. I won't mention them here, because there's no time. I will, however, present them for the Minutes. Indicatively and concisely are questions asking for answers. Some forty illegal mosques have been mapped, controlled by organisations interconnected with fundamentalist centers in Asia. Given the dogmatic faith of the Islamics, based on the Koran, such as the area of their religious worship, it is also their property. Does the government understand the enormous risks of national security that the establishment and functioning of these glasses produce? What doctrine will mosques be? Sunni or Shia? These are questions they need to answer. [[At this point, Member Eleni Zaroulia tables the above-mentioned questions in the archives of the Secretariat of the Steenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] On page 99 of the bill you mentioned that during the current international context, which recorded an outbreak of fundamentalist views and actions, the immediate completion of the project becomes more imperative than ever. Honestly, I do not understand what you want to say about fundamentalist views. To refresh your memory and inform you that we have recently witnessed respondent attacks by fanatic Islamists in Europe. And in the recent massive attack in Nice, France, where Christian Europe mourned eighty-four dead of a fanatic Islam attack, the French inspectors searched the mosques in the region and what did they find? They found weapons, ammunition and ISIS propaganda. This is what you want to create in our homeland too. This mess you want to bring. And the great amount that you will waste and touch almost one million euros, instead of giving it to the construction of the Islamic mosque, best give it to the hospitals that are in need. But we must not forget Erdogan's words, which he said "the mosques are our camps, our minarets are our bayonets and our faithful army". Indicative statement of the good intentions of its policy of democracy and, above all, our Turkish friend. However, I should like to close up with what matters and is the essence of the matter. Our historical memories don't erase or have to erase. Ibrahim's worshippers are the nightmares of our dreams. The Greeks who have never been Greek, but Greek-speaking Turks in the soul and spirit, still live among us. The Ottoman yusufs are threateningly lifting their snake head to defend the religious rights of the illegally invading Muslim likes in our country. It is not by chance that the desecrations of our sacred orthodox temples by your children, young ones. Who will defend the rights of the Greeks? We, the cursed, the chryssayites.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u179	You're very few.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u180	Finish, liars!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u181	It's all right, a few people have always made the revolution. A lot of people used to be sapioglids.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u182	Quiet! Mr. Michalio, Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u183	Eat a chicken, man. Greece, whether you want it or not, even from the newest history that was born through the flames of the Greek Revolution, guaranteed our Greekity with the "one people, a nation, a state".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u184	Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u185	And the slogan of Ypsilant "Machos for faith and patrido" still speaks in our ears. This is what we, the golden people, are gonna do, and that's what we call for those who feel Greek to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Cocksucker has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to vote on a bill from the Ministry of the Environment relating to natural gas as well. The articles in the bill were explained in detail by our rapporteur, Mr Lazarides. I shall refer to two - three specific issues. I am pleased that Mr Amanatidis has, indeed, moderately argued in favour of the mourner. With the same modesty, I will try to argue and the conclusions will be in the world that sees us and yours. The proponents of the building of the mosque support the constitutional provisions on tolerance, the European Convention on Human Rights, the fact that Athens has no mosque, our diplomatic relations with Muslim countries and others. Some people go a little further. To the dissidents, they put a sign on it. They have the lightning at least that they don't know. They're ignorant. The danger would be that this misinformation would be appropriate. Ignorance is dangerous. So you have heard these arguments about constitutional provisions of adequacy. They're absolutely respected. Let us see if there are any opposite arguments as strong as they are or are more than that. As Independent Greeks we now submit the proposal to establish a cemetery for Muslims in Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u188	Hey, okay. Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u189	There is no cemetery and those who die and go to Komotini are forced. Unfortunately, there isn't. It's not a rhetorical placement at all. But I want to separate Muslim worship with the cultural symbol. The question of Muslim religious worship is a complex matter, Minister, which has to do, especially now, with European immigration policy from specific countries, such as Germany, France, Belgium. Are we going to follow these countries? Do I have to? We, as Independent Greeks, say that yes, we are following this scepticism with regard to Islam, since there is no condemnation of our country by the European Court of Human Rights of a violation of religious rights, since it has not formally complained of any Muslim union that it was violated once. Until the roll-call vote I will expect any complaint that a right to worship has been violated and, if there is, if a right has been violated, I will vote for it. Because unreserved religion is inviolable, but we are dealing with the cultural symbol. And, Mr Amanatidis, I would like to explain on behalf of Mr Lazarides, because you have referred, I repeat, moderately. The mosque is produced by the verb ‘fine’, which means ‘delimitation’. To delineate, it means there are a lot of things to delimit. The mosque is mosque, from the ‘cami’, which means ‘faithful’. The mosque cannot be a mosque, Minister. Of course, religious spaces must be protected. I repeat, having a different opinion does not mean that we are xenophobic. Already, the countries of the European Union have changed their policy on the building of mosques, the preservation of these sites. Here I come to the argument of some who dare not say it from this Step, that we want to better control them. Why would you want to check on them? We are following the European immigration policy towards Islam and we are consistent with May 2015. We tabled two amendments - one of which was tabled yesterday by Mr Lazaridis - which have no financial costs. I don't know where Mr. Skourlet. One is to amend Article 93 of the Code of Administrative Procedure. It relieves free professionals, too many people. We expect at least an explanation why it cannot be accepted. Unfortunately, someone who has a difference with tax is obliged to pay 50% in cash. And what do we suggest? Intangible collateral instead of cash. Integrity safeguard. To relieve the world. The second amendment concerns the parties to bankruptcy. All of us, individually, are in charge of HISPIA. The settlement of Samara - Venizelos with L.4223/2013 made the law that the trade union, appointed by the court in large companies, was also charged with the task of judiciary. And there are too many unions facing criminal courts. We hear that the amendment is positive. That's what the ministers said. I say that this law is illegal. I'll close - you'll allow me - with the occupations. Fortunately, they are few, but they are pressing, gentlemen of SYRIZA, at the Civic Opposition, which has no program for Greece to leave the crisis. He has no programme and he is trying to take advantage of unfortunate statements regarding occupations. We must never change the concept of law in our country and change self-righteousness. Everyone can't do whatever they want. In closing, we vote for the bill. I think we have given sufficient explanations. Some people were raped to put labels on xenophobicity. Sit down and think that Islam’s culture has nothing to do with Western civilization, fully respecting the right to worship Muslims. Mr Skourletis, I would like you to see the two amendments that I mentioned, one by Mr Lazarides and one by one by one by one by one by one by one by one by one by one by one by one by the bankruptcy officer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u190	So do we. The President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Michaloliacos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u191	You should've applauded, gentlemen of SYRIZA. What happened? How come you don't applaud? Let me congratulate you on your partners!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u192	Please, Mrs. Bakoyannis. Give it up. You're welcome. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Michalokou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the Muslim mosques and the position of the Golden Dawn and the positions of the other parties, as expressed, I would like to make a complaint. A short time ago in the Committee of Inquiry was tabled by the "oligarch", one of the "pimps" of the media of the place, Kontomenas, and addressed to the MP of the Golden Dawn called him "master nothing". Well, yes, this "principal nothing" goes to all of you, as far as the "pimps" are concerned. They're dragging you behind the channels. The government has promised that it will end. We will see if that is true, because on this point I know that this gentleman, who was lying down in three chairs, as if he were in the living room of his home, showing complete disrespect to a representative of the Greek people voted against by Greek citizens, has close relations with Ministers of your Government, who have promised him permission. You're bazaars. We had the same during the Committee of Inquiry yesterday, which we all united together, you decided that the "wild monster" called the Labraki Journalist Organization is in immunity and so Mr.Psycharis did not deposit, bringing the paper of a private doctor. The same thing as Bombola, who is on the Lagard list the other day, said with half-baked "yes, I had made 20 million euros, it was a family matter". This gentleman was also forced to declare that he received a bond loan that you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, in 2014 along with PASOK and you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, have been disbursed by banks, banks who have been drinking the blood of the Greek people and have been recapitalisationed by the legacy of the Greek people. So we do not believe that this procedure called a committee of inquiry will produce anything, since, at the most, some 'oligarchs' should be sidelined and their position should be taken. The sure thing is that the Golden Dawn, as has consistently fought all these years the "pimps" of interlocutory, will continue to fight them now. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The Member also asked him about a company called LEXITEL, which has phones somewhere in Thailand, Singapore - I don't know where - where, in all the big channels, in all these pillars of your famous pseudo-democracy, from an hour after they come out and say, "Tell me, listen to me" some half-naked ladies. They are paid by journalists, who represent the "Hracles of democracy" and who are always prosecutors of the Golden Dawn. Also, in the last few days, we have seen in all these channels, the 'SCAI', the 'MEGA', the 'ALPHA', in all television stations getting out communications saying: 'We do not have a license? We'd had a license at the time. We have paid so much to the insurance funds, so much to the end of television." Seriously, gentlemen and ladies? Are they also benefactors of all these channels, which owe hundreds of millions of euros, or do we forget that it is all these channels that have supported all this guilty and sinful regime, which has led our country to bankruptcy and today's downfall? Who were those who had special transmissions for the Stock Exchange when the entire Greek people were closed down? These channels. Who were those who took the huge sums for the 2004 Olympic Games advertising? These channels. In fact, by MPs, three thousand and four thousand euros were appointed by their family environments to the Athina 2004 Agency. Has there ever been a check on this? What transparency will you bring? Twenty months, you've been ruling. Finally, how are you going to hit that monster of intertwining? We don't see anything happening about this. They have huge responsibilities, therefore, and they are not the benefactors of the Greek people, as they want to show up. Of course, many of them have paid their debts by winning a parliamentary seat in one of the major power parties. They are also - not to forget - for six consecutive years when the burden of the memorandum was imposed on our homeland, they did nothing. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, you are not innocent of blood. Twenty months you've been ruling with a false announcement that you're going to tear down the memorandum, that you're going to abolish it. You are accountable to the Greek people. All these channels, therefore, in these six years of the Memorandum, have done nothing but support the ethnic policy that is going on today. Before I come to the case of mourners, I would like to say to everyone in this Chamber: at last, a little more prevailing. Erdogan didn't become a Robespierre and a great democrat. An authoritarian regime has and you know it very well. As far as the extradition of the eight Turks is concerned, I have to say that if there were a Greek state, a Greek state with a fine capital, it would give them, on one condition: they would also publish in Greece or Cyprus the murderers of Solomos Solomos and Tasaq. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We do not forget that such days just twenty years ago, a lad with cigarettes in his mouth was going up into the web of a occupied area, to lower the Turkish flag and die from the Turkish bullets and his killers live free in Turkey and in the occupied territories. There's an international arrest warrant from INTERPOL. Here, then, be the opportunity to seek to come and justify the blood of Solomon and Tasos Isaac. With regard to the mosque, of course, you did not raise the matter. You found it ready. It was signed, it's not your business. From there, however, it relates to a more general policy you have, which, according to the Minister, Mr. Friend, and the speech of the Prime Minister on the Revision of the Constitution, wants the state of Greek neutrality. First of all, there is no word 'neutral religious'. It's something that doesn't exist in logic. If you had the boldness, you could say "god", "god", "god", whatever you want from them, but "neutral religion" does not say anything. The Greek state, however, whether you like it or not, as much as you distort Greek history, was founded by the first National Assembly of the Greeks in the name of the Holy Trinity and is not a “neutral” state. It's a Christian and orthodox state. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Prime Minister in his speech on the Revision of the Constitution still talked about referendums. Here, then, is a glorious stage, a referendum for the mosque. Does a recent survey, which was carried out and which led to the fact that 72% of the Greeks view the presence of Muslims in our country annoying? Doesn't the will of the people tell you anything? Well, it doesn't matter. I would now like to dwell on the attitude of the parties. The new Republic, also loyal to its international liberalist policy, has no objection to becoming the Islamic mosque. The same applies to the river and to the PASOK. But what makes us impression is, on the one hand, SYRIZA's attitude, which is not being interpreted. And how is it possible for a movement that has its roots in Marxism to be in favour of establishing yet another religious motto, in the name - says - of human rights? But no one has ever deprived them of human rights. And is it absurd that the church stands contrary to this thing? As far as the Independent Greeks are concerned, I would like to ask the following question: if the New Democracy, the PASOK and the River were not to vote for the establishment of the mosque, what would they do in this case? Would they have the luxury of voting against? Finally, this is important. If they want to have an opposition, they don't want to be free guys. To withdraw their trust in the government and to fall the government. Not whenever it suits them, to keep voters, to say 'no' to bills. And, finally, Alex's right hand is no longer beaten. It's been restored, not to say it's got ten right hands, like God Shiva, and it's signing memos and selling out ports, airports and everything. So, Jami, under the shadow of Acropolis and a few kilometers from where a mythical hero of the Revolution fell in 1821, by Greek hands, as Phyiadis bears witness, a famous historian of 1821, George Karaiskakis. Under the shadow of Acropolis, where the blood of the braves was spilled to keep the Acropolis, where very Greek blood was spilled, will grow a mosque. Besides, the Parthenon was a mosque, until the Greek troops released him. If you were a government, you might also leave him a mosque, because that's what the "neutral religion" says. I conclude by saying that the Golden Dawn, loyal to its principles, proclaims and will fight, with the overwhelming majority of the Greek people at its side: never anywhere mosque in Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u194	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor. From your position, Mr. Kegeroglu, to get time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u195	You know I'm talking from here, that's why you said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u196	Of course, that's why I said it. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. They are indeed moments and topics many times here in the House that highlight the true self of political forces. And one of the issues is the relevant bill that we are debating today. I saw Minister Skourletis and I compared him to Mr. Skourletis. Today the Memorandum spoke to us. I've seen a lot of such contradictions, which I'm going to talk about below. But now I want to start by the ANELs, who not only said that it is not a xenophobic attitude, but in essence they ideologically documented this xenophobic attitude, that is, they went one step further than the Golden Dawn. They thought this was a low-flight flight. We understand, Mr Annell, what this is all about. But if you had any sign of honesty in what you were saying, why don't you just tell your Chief to block the construction of the mosque as Minister, he just signed wide and sign the procedures? Why don't you say it? If you want to make politics, come here and tell us why this bilingualism! You also want the leaf of power through Mr Kammenos's ministerial chair - so, after all, you are taking part in the government and supporting the government, which has all its ideology on it, namely, the leaf of power and nothing more - and on the other hand, you are here to make us the ideologists, sell cheap populism to the citizens, because there is a climate because of events in Europe, because of events in our country too. This climate is real. However, we need to look at it at a clear look, in its real basis and have a national strategy, which also meets what the country needs and of course not just our obligations, but what we say is that people have not just tolerantness over people who have diversity in everything, but also ensures by means of their own state the conditions, so that they can coexist. When Mr. Michaloliakos took out, I was reminded that in the Revolution of 1821 Muslim Greeks were also involved. Does anyone question it? But because many spoke about the Holy Trinity - and so it was, in the Holy Trinity, have the Christian rebels vowed - do we also have pagans in the Golden Dawn? Do you work for the people once again, representing the Christian Orthodox here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u198	You work for the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u199	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u200	And besides, I've filed evidence here in the House. Those who always talk about illegal immigrants, who speak with this hateful language of every different person, their MP sold materials...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u201	In Manolada, the pascocchias used to take advantage of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u202	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u203	From the Step of the House, I've submitted the evidence to the House. He sold materials to the immigrants...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u204	Where did you see these?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u205	...through Kanakis, the one who had an organization. The evidence is submitted to the House, Mr President. Anyone who wants to can get the invoices. Congressman of the Golden Dawn! So here they all come and work their way the Greek people. And whoever's telling the truth, no matter how hard she is, they often have the price. But I'd rather have the price than be a jerk. Of course, I degrade the Karakiozis when I compare him to those people and those who want to be representatives of the people. Yeah, I'm hurting Caragiose.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u206	Wait a minute, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u207	Tell us about the Venizelos haircut in the insurance funds!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u208	Wait a minute! Quiet! Mr. Kegeroglu, use political descriptions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u209	Tell the Greek people the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u210	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u211	Bilingualism is the political feature of those who do not have a clear position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u212	It's you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u213	First of all, I didn't congratulate Karakiozis on addressing you. I told others, don't bite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u214	Okay. Who are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u215	Quiet! Mr. Kegeroglu, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u216	I shall conclude, Mr President. But you won't take away the word now that I'm going to talk about SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u217	I'm not taking the floor. I'm telling you to get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, not anyway. Let's see now. I had a vacation and I have time. What you said, Mr Skourletis, today, do they have anything to do with what Mr Lafazanis said or what you were saying in the election? You spoke about the 25% reduction in GDP - and that is the way it is - in the years of the crisis. You spoke about the problems that have arisen, about the huge deficits that had to be covered. Why refuse every conversation about the causes of the crisis? Why do you not take responsibility for all the reaction you had when we really had to deal with the crisis? You had your legs stylized and you played a role that you were supposed to believe, but, as soon as you took over authority, you changed them and you came to the Memorandum. All this has cost the Greek people. It's not just 100 billion against our lenders. It is the cost of reducing your national income. Because only if you had reason to say that from the economy and work has not been lost almost an hour since 2015, while before 2015 we had Monday, Wednesday, a Friday stop at all stages of the economy, you will make a small comparison to see your participation in GDP reduction. We don't have to say anything else. After 15 years, we'll see the rest. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Red, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u221	Because he referred to the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u222	He's not the President here to answer. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u223	I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u224	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u225	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u226	You're welcome. Mr. Red, you don't have the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] What is that debate now, Mrs. Bakoyannis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u227	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u228	What debate is that? You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u229	Did I talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u230	You don't have him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u231	It's all my fault!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u232	Mrs. Manolakou is not here. Mr Ilhan Ahmet has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, reconstruction in Athens has been an old and painful case, which has been pending for many years and has shown pathogens of our political system, which should not exist. Thousands of Muslim immigrants living in Athens and Greek Muslims, who, together with their families, are established in Athens, have as self-evident human rights personnel, unofficial access to a place of worship of their religion for the fulfillment of their religious duties. Athens is not meant to be the only European capital that has no mosque, legal, structured, and constitutional requirements, with reasons that look more like pretexts in sin. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time of peak for the problem of Islamophobia in Europe, at a time when the conflict between the overwhelming majority of the peaceful and peaceful Muslims who live in the countries of the European Union, with the extreme violence and Islamic terrorism expressed by groups which falsely express the lessons of the Koran, the final and irrevocable decision to erect in Athens, which is also intergroup, is, first of all, a message of peace, division, tolerance and coexistence. The building of the mosque is a message of resistance to the terrorism of fear and the undermining of the principles of humanism, which must distinguish all modern society. It is a message of respect for religious freedom as a fundamental human right, a pillar of the European acquis. Ladies and gentlemen, the Muslim immigrant, who lives legally in Greece, must feel his affection and acceptance, his respect for his superiority and his religion on the part of the Greek state. Here I agree with the position of the Minister, Mr. Friend. It is a matter of national security that the Muslims feel their affection and acceptance here, because otherwise we will be led to extreme situations. Not to marginalize socially and religiously to be a north on the networks of extremist groups, seeking to radicalize it by means of a vehicle his religion. I will see those extremists who in Greece are attacking Islam with intolerance and obvious prejudice, from those who have questionable and real fear of Islam, because of what is happening around us, presenting a real fact, which has recently happened to you by terrorism Germany. There, then, the head of the German Protestant Church, Archbishop Heinrich Benford - Strom, asked for Islam’s teaching to be introduced to all primary schools in the country, in order to stop it from uncontrollable centers that turn the Quran into a manipulation tool, and to lead young people to its extreme adoption. At the same time, and while the majority of Germans feel that Islam is outside their country's culture by 70%, the high priest himself spoke about Germany's national security issue, about the need for total tolerance and full religious freedom, stressing that no religion can function outside the constitutional framework. At this point I must also recognise the positive contribution of the Greek Church and of the Archbishop of Jeronym personally to the formation of an image of modesty, of solidarity for our suffering fellowman, and especially for the arrogant immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read a small piece of what the professor of Religion of the Theological School of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Gregory Ziakas, says. In his speech to a follow-up committee he said: "The Greek world has always had its roots deep in the East and is today the bridge of approach and friendship between East and West, North and South. The common roots of religious traditions of Christianity and Islam teach that today's communication is not only a need for an alienated world, but it is a need for peace, salvation and survival of mankind." Now the professor says: "Let us hope that Christians and Muslims will make the necessary progress so that the sermons of modern "prosecutors" for conflicts of cultures and religions, moving on the streets of various economic and political purposes, go in vain." For all these reasons, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this amendment is moving very clearly in the right direction, especially for the creation of the mosque, hoping that it will finally be implemented. Of course, I am voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Kostas Zouraris has the floor. Aren't you ready?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u235	I'll find something to say in the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u236	On the way to Stepma, Mr. Zurari, will you find it? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u237	My respects, Mr. President. Oh, of course! He's immoral. Ethics, really. What can I say? Should I say it or don't I say it? A disastrous theostic spiral, perhaps also Christian Orthodox, says that they cannot tolerate a Muslim temple. Of course, anyway, it's words to love, since there's the law. The application is from what I understand. In the King, in the great phase there were two Muslim temples. To the king. For those who don't understand it, for the modernists, it's Istanbul. The most modern ones are Istanbul. In then Istanbul, the King, there were two temples. Under the shadow here of Pellados Virgin Athena - Pellas, because of the virgin and virgin, for Pellas - there was Osiris, Isis, cynical gods, buffalo gods, of all kinds. Free was the worshiper, for Pella Athena was prosperous. Therefore, there were all the doctrines here, from the theocratic to the brutery. "Eased", then - truly and fundamental, such as the foundations of the earth - "the foundations of the earth, has become horrified, heaven". You can't be a Christian Orthodox and deny that thing. "Government and the stranger must have him together," Christ says in Matthew - even if some Arabs are rich - "for me you will not always have me." The poor beside, the poor Muslim and the poor of course poor. In other words, some must understand the following: a thousand four hundred years our three elder Patriarchates of the great then Greek inhabitant are very comprehensive and, as we Christian Orthodoxs say, of course in Babylonian captivity. Neither the Arab peoples have faced our three Patriarchates and our temples there and our believers, the Orthodox peoples since then. And if you go to Alexandria - we built it, anyway, the great cherry "Skonias" and in any case Alexandria is, it is ours - if you go to Cairo, the church of Agios Georgios is the central temple and it is in the center of Cairo. St. George's temple. Muslims enter, as you know. Therefore, you cannot belong to Greek culture unless you exercise this proselytic prosperous prosperousness and also the reception of the foreigner, the poor, the Muslim. Of course, on the basis of and the beginning of the minimal return, only the Turks, when they had taken the Patriarchate's embassy, had once annoyed, but even the first-born elders of Constantinople - Istanbul - to be politically correct - and this is still under Muslim cover. So get yourself together and become Greeks and possibly Christian Orthodox again. I, as an ancient Greek communist, Christian Orthodox free grazing - this is for my friend Amyras, that is what is called myself, dear Amyras - I am in complete euphoria, fine, voting in favour of Article 35.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u238	Thank you. We're closing the list of speakers with Mrs. Big Housekeeper. Here, Mr. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today's bill is very important, because it includes a large number of complex arrangements for renewable energies and, of course, the very serious provision for the establishment of the Islamic mosque in Athens is also being introduced today. With regard to Article 35, the creation of the Islamic mosque in Athens, the Centro Association as a Party with a stable European orientation is clear that it respects the rights of the hundreds of thousands of Muslim permanent inhabitants of Athens and tourists flooding the capital. But I have some points to make: First, Archbishop Jerome himself has declared that we must be particularly careful about building a place of worship for our Muslim fellow citizens in Athens. I would like to point out that our experience from other states shows that the criminal behaviour of some Muslim extremists, unfortunately, also affects their fellow religions. In this direction, we should be concerned about the way in which the mosque is managed and operated. Fortunately the Greek state will pay the construction piece and in the future the Greek state will pay the officials of the Muslims, the managers, in order at least to have an absolute control of the Greek authorities. That's something. We don't have to pay our people, but anyway, we're gonna pay. At least we have that control. We need it. Secondly, in no way should the space around the mosque be ghettoed. This is the responsibility of the Greek state and the municipality, because there may be problems with the inhabitants of the region and in this respect the municipality and local government must take measures. Thirdly, which concerns me in particular, is the cultural identity of the region. The mosque will be built on the Holy Road, which has a history of millenniums, since it united Athens, as we know, with Elefsina and which, unfortunately, has not been exploited culturally as it should. Historically and culturally an Islamic mosque may be an illegality within this space. And at the same time we propose at the same time that there should be a direct utilization and demonstration of the region's history, at least to be able to keep the historical history of the area. I wish it would. After all, what concerns me and concerns me most is the way of administration. Who will be the places of worship, possible pedagogicals, and the alienation of the region are the issues that should concern us in particular. Now I'm coming to the energy part. The provisions are many, and many individual observations can be made. I would like to stand by, because of a limited period of time, only two: First of all, in Article 3(6), the intended duration of operating aid would be at least twenty-five years and not twenty years for the RES, without discrimination, given that the trends are generally the producers and suppliers - if you agree, Minister - to conclude contracts at least twenty-five years, not twenty years. There are no 20-year contracts. In the case of wind parks, islands and rock islands linked through a new subsea interconnection, there should also be an additional rate of compensation. Unfortunately, nothing is planned for the compensation. The bill aims at the same time in two directions, on the one hand, to harmonise the guidelines with the European Union on renewable sources, and on the other hand, it should be to attract new investment projects that the country so much needs. However, as much as we can discuss specific regulations, we all realise that the main issue is that there should be a stable, reliable, flexible environment for energy entrepreneurs in our country. On the contrary, to date, the situation is disappointing. I ask you: How can we overcome the blows that the PV space itself has received from the state? Just two years ago, in 2014, it took place, at the initiative of the previous government, with the famous new deal - the New Deal and the New Deal - that resulted in the cut-off of guaranteed prices in the PVs of around 30% - a very large percentage - and then you come too, your government, and you make a 3.6% contribution to these businesses. You, too, give the company the gift shot. New Democracy gave it to you, too...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u240	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u241	The photovoltaics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u242	That's a mistake! You can't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u243	That's how I got them here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u244	A site wrote it, which was disproved. Is that your information?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u245	He didn't disprove.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u246	Does the bill say so in it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u247	All right, we'll find it in the government's paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u248	Well, he's disgusting now, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u249	All of what happened in the photovoltaics area resulted in hundreds of businesses and people unable to satisfy their loans. You know that. They'll get them all the land they took for these investments. Also, thousands of jobs have been lost, since many businesses have preferred to be transferred to Turkey, which is a tax haven for renewable energy. Minister, it is not just a question of legality. This will be judged by the Greek courts, to which the companies have appealed. The cultural issue is in such a country how can one really invest? Why would he prefer unstable and insecure Greece to the neighbouring countries? Finally, I think we should stop the rough and temporary tax provisions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u250	Finish, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u251	...and prioritise our country's image toward the outside. So investment, growth, reduce unemployment, and at least young people should not leave abroad to find better luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u252	We are moving towards the end of the process. Mr Rabbit, Parliamentary spokesman for the Golden Dawn, and, with the consent of this House, we are limiting the time to six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u253	Aren't we going in the normal order of the Parliamentary Representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u254	As everyone asks for the floor. Mrs Bakoyannis, your parliamentary representative wants to speak lately. Mr. Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u255	Thank you. Mr President, I will begin by referring to the debate that a PASOK spokesman, Democratic Reconciliation, is now called now, apparently, preparing some algae to do, to save and not pay the money they owe to the Greek state. So this man dared, and he told me about pricks, and I don't know what. Who? The representative of those who have devastated the Greek state. He dared to speak, his members and his MPs have eaten hundreds of millions of euros, others are behind prison bars, because they have been convicted, others will come very soon, like Yannes Papantoniou, to see something thirty million euros of how they disappeared from cases and it is just a drop in this ocean. Another of their clerks, Tsukatos, officially said that he's been privatizing SIEMENS, but the money didn't keep it, he took it to the PASOK funds. And PASOK dares to talk about stranglers, the ridiculous, the pitiless who have stolen the Greek state, but the Greek people will punish you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u256	Please, no political designations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u257	No, he's been talking about scumbags and thieves.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u258	He's badly talked about pricks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u259	To conclude, therefore, so that these people do not talk - because they are exposed whenever they and the others speak - I shall refer to the other issue that has happened since the morning. The MP, here, went out, SYRIZA's Zabec and because he had rebelled and said he is a very patriot - he is a very patriot, but for Turkey, not for Greece - when we asked him if there was a Turkish minority in Thrace, if he recognizes it, he sat down, said something else, he was drinking water at that time and he said "prove them to me". Because it is easy to prove this and because we have dealt with Thrace, I tell you again that these people are not talking, because they are really humiliated. Photo by Zabek Hussein with Kemal Ataturk, Turkish flag, making a speech. It may not be bad for some, it's bad for us. Zabeck Hussein, speaking at DEB. The DEB is in Thrace and officially speaks of a Turkish minority, it speaks of the repression of the Turks of Thrace. Zabeck Hussein's here with the DEP flag photo and he's talking. He's the patriot. Zaybec Hussein in a photo from above which has the inscription, where he speaks and where he reads: "Two Western Thrace of Turkish Minority". Zabeck Hussein in a picture of a basketball team here, six up, five down on your knees. In fact, Hussein is on his knees to show that he's very obedient to the Turkish consulate. It's from the exact same gathering. Zabeck Hussein - to finish here - on a co-ordination and a speech that is being made. There are three flags: one is Turkey, the other is the so-called "Independent West Thrace" and the other is Bulgaria, where the meeting takes place. So Zabeck Hussein, who speaks under the flag of "independent Western Thrace", will speak to us here. I'm putting down the photographs for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are some of the few we found. So these people are in Parliament and are indebted to us. This man was here right now and he told us that we don't have any evidence or that we're lying. So take these and look at them. Anyone who has the opposite opinion, to take it from the Minutes, to see if we lie and see who is a patriot and who is not a patriot. We said Zabek Hussein is a patriot, but he's a patriot for the Turks and he's here to question us. And he was found in a Greek village, in Glauki, and he had a fuss with the false writer there, Mete, who also talks about "independent West Thrace" and the President of DEB, with Ali Tsavos, in which the Golden Dawn has filed a lawsuit and is now in an interrogation procedure, to explain to us how the party DEB held on 24 July in Komotini, a few days ago, mainly demanding the rights of the Turkish in Western Thrace. But does the Greek Parliament finally recognize Turkey, recognize a Turkish minority in Greece? How is that possible? And how do you all cover this thing? These are, in response to the particular Member, whom I expected him to be here, but they are not. Apparently he'll come another time, once we leave, or go somewhere else to say that Golden Dawn is lying. Here we are, we'll keep answering him. As far as the matter of the mosque goes on to be created in the Botanic. Here is a responsibility that all governments have, and PASOK and New Democracy and of course SYRIZA - ANEL. Golden Dawn won't let it fight with all its powers so that it won't become a mosque in the Botanic. We welcome and congratulate the Greek people who are in the region, who are trying to resist, who have entered this area and are trying to prevent the building of the mosque, which does not say any intertwined media, because they must hide these from the Greeks who react. And of course how would they say all these media when Elias Cassidy has gone four days now and humiliates them? All those who come into the House, the so-called barons, Bobolas, Psycharis, Alfouzos, Nearmenias, these so-called Lebanese, who do what they want, come to this committee, they turn their eyes down and they go crying and embarrassed and saying that one is sick, the other is not feeling very well, and the other has not told him and is not coming. The Golden Dawn is breaking them down and that cannot be called into question. And if you want to hide behind your finger, the Greek people know very well. Golden Dawn is against the intertwined ones, is against the great interests and is against those who say Turks to the Greek Parliament. The Turks will leave the Greek Parliament and go home.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u260	Mr. Karras has the floor for five minutes. After Mr. Karras, Mr. Tsironis, Mr. Koutsoukos, Mrs. Kerameos and Mrs. Kafantaris will be speaking and the proceedings will end. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u261	For ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u262	Not more than five minutes, Mr. Carras. The decision of the Conference of Presidents was unanimous on the scope of the procedure. There is a need for colleagues who leave. Please respect this. It's not only true for you, it's true for everyone from here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, I will respect the decision of the Conference of Presidents, but I will point out that, if we end up in this way, it must be done in an equal manner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u264	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u265	It is not done equally, I am a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and I have to make it quite clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u266	You are right, but we can never predict where the debate will go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u267	Let's actually go. We have managed to get a major bill of interest, renewable energy sources, to turn it into a controversy about religious feelings, whether or not there are alien rights, and we have not finally discussed either side or on the substance. Renewables, Mr President, can make a significant contribution to the economy of the country. Any attempt to legislate, we believe, is being made to improve the situation. Unfortunately, however, the urgency put forward by the Government and accepted by the Conference of Presidents, and the way in which the debate was held today, which was taken over by another provision contained in the bill, did not allow for major issues to be dealt with. Therefore - even if the ministers do not listen - I shall refer very briefly to the following. Firstly, we have no proof that renewable energy sources can be developed in Greece. Priority is heavy. And why, Mr President? Because in the past contracts have been signed with different invoices... [[Noise on the ministerial benches]] It doesn't matter, let the ministers not listen, Mr President. I'm not talking about the ministers anymore, I'm clear. The invoices signed by Greek citizens, borrowers, were not kept, tired. I do not blame the current government, it is the previous governments that have done so. Today, however, this prehistory leaves no room for new photovoltaic units to be developed for the future. But also industrial production units and these are still in a state of insecurity and, given that banks do not finance, there can be no growth in this period. So in the sense of this, we think that the bill can contribute but cannot pay off. I have said many times that the country needs wealth. This is not how wealth is created. I will give another example, which I had lived through, making a tour earlier in Greece. I found uprooted olives and sell for wood, firewood, hundreds of years, because, he says, they'd do photovoltaic panels and make money. So the crisis is here. No one informed these people in 2010 and 2011 that the crisis had already begun. So they lost their land, too. Banks did not give loans, they did not sign contracts, they lost their property. Do not, then, continue this tradition, which is a tradition of maliciousness. So let's go to the famous mosque. We've said it. The Constitution requires tolerance, equality, whether it is a Greek citizen or not, since it is within the limits of Greece. We'll say yes to the mosque. We will say 'yes' and in position, because it is legislated, it is spaced. However, I will note something, Mr President, even when it comes to recording in the Minutes. We are practically in conflict of rights, because foreigners, foreigners or other religions, who are Greek citizens, or even non-legal citizens, have the right to exercise their religion. We will never question that from the Central Association. However, because it has been spaced inside the city's web, we have to suggest: It should be under the absolute Greek administration. I see they are probably forgotten - but I do not know if they will come back to the future - funding from countries. We must remember that the Muslim world is divided, not only religiously divided, but also racially divided. We have sunnits, dragons, Shia, we have a lot of enthusiasm, let's call them that. These should coexist if we want to ensure security in that area and more extensively control of the Greek state. I'll give an example. He's talking about a mosque. Mere mosquitoes should not be allowed. Let the government find that. What's the mummy? They are the known nurseries, the so-called 'teachers'. In Balkan countries such schools operate and they are incubators of recruitment. So we must deal with them very carefully so that fear of the inhabitants of the region is eliminated and, moreover, diversity can coexist. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Don't pressure me, Mr. President, I'll finish. In this sense, we also agree with the bill on principle and with the special provision. I can only observe that, as my friend Mr Amyras rightly said, renewable energies - to close within our topic - started from Kythnos to Bavarian rule and where are we still? Essentially zero. I would remind the Minister - who brought us a provision on five years of extension of the geothermality rights to the western Cyclades - that on the PPC website, when I sought to see the installed power and performance, he had a huge zero, which is still up to now. Thank you, Mr President. I haven't had a chance to say any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, too. Mr. Chironis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I am pleased to hear that the main issue of the bill, its body, which is renewable energy, has been accepted by Parliament. So something changes, and that makes us optimistic. I am, of course, impressed by a saying - I do not remember who or my colleague - that this bill is very different from what we tabled at the beginning. I say we should be concerned about the fact, if anything. These days, which took place in an entire consultation and which eventually came to the House this same thing that the government wanted, I hope they will be brought to an end with our own government and all the future. I wish the bills were very different when they arrive in Parliament from what was originally tabled. I shall refer to the mosque, which has been very busy. We have heard here that our country is being threatened, that it is being threatened by Islam. This is prejudicial to our culture, to our ancestors, to our religion. Hellenism everywhere and always, our culture everywhere and always has been a civilization that has never been threatened by others. It has been this level historically in the last four thousand years, which has been abusive to saying that they are being threatened. Was it not threatened in Turkish rule, was it not threatened in Jerusalem, was it not threatened in Egypt or in countries such as Sudan, Nigeria, where there are Greek Orthodox colonies, and will it be threatened because a mosque will be made? What, though, is our culture threatened? For many times some refer to the ancient Greeks, the heroes of 1821. Let me ask, can those who mention them tell me a 1940-1944 hero? Who defended the country against fascism? Where are their heroes? Were they battalions and betrayed our country, the vows? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] May I ask where he was at the Asia Minor Destroy? Who took my family out of her house and sent us to exile? Who destroyed Greece, who betrayed Greece then? Should I go to any new facts? You're not telling me what ideology was Mr. Samson in Cyprus, who led to the destruction of the island, to the loss of half the island of Hellenism and to the unleashing of our families? Did he be like Mr Ioannides? Was he a fascist? Does the fascists always betray Greece? Because I'm telling you honestly that I'm not scared of a million or fifty million people who believe in Islam. Those who scare me are the traitors of my country. Oddly how, traitors are always far-right, they're always fascists. So they scare me and they are the ones who threaten my country, my country. If they want to refer to Archbishop Jerony, may I remind you that Archbishop Jeronym has explicitly said that Apostle Paul came to ancient Greece and referred to the temple of the unknown god. The Archbishop had said last year, on the day of the Apostle Paul, "to see in the eyes of Apostle Paul any refugee he has sanctified in the Aegean and whoever does not see this, is neither Christian nor Greek". That's what the Archbishop said last year. Don't remember them whenever it suits us. I shall conclude, Mr President - so that I do not get tired, because I know that it is too late for everyone - with the 'ITIS ANTIME' park. We heard that the park's run will be taken by a municipality. The administration of the park, for two years, has been held by the S.H.I.E.L.D. and we have arrived here. Anyone who wants to see where we've arrived will immediately understand what happens, whether it's or not urgent. I want to remind you that if I hadn't personally sent HICP two days ago to put water in the lakes, at the moment, all the living organisms would have died there. The U.S.S.A. put water in the lakes. The park is in misery with the administration of the ASA. S.H.I.E.L.D. himself says there's a huge problem. So I'm saying something very simple. This bill that comes today is a product of extensive consultation for over a year and with the ASA and the mayors. There have been dozens of meetings. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. I just want to say one more sentence. To say today that this is an opinion of a minister and is not the subject of extensive consultation with the Civil Society and with the region, is not right. I have personally participated in more than twenty meetings with both the Civil Society and the mayors of the region, who - with one exception - fully agree that this is the way no one has a double vote. I'll finish by saying one more thing. S.A. took the "ITIS ANTI-DUMPING" park. I think Mr. Maniotis mentioned the fact that some money was given. There was not a single euro in the law. I don't know if they were then, in 2014. Well, they were given if they were given. However, the law did not provide for a single euro. Much more so, the officials of the "ITONTIS ANTONIS" park, strangely how they did not belong to the "ITONTISIS ANTONIS" park, but to the other body from which the "ITONTY" park was cut, i.e. the metropolitan operator, who does not have any money. That is why people have been unpaid for a year and a half, because they belong to a body that has no resources, because resources have been transferred to the SAD. I think it's time that this thing ended, because it was a situation that didn't lead anywhere. He failed in the matter. You know, we know. It's time to change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, too. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the paradoxes. The Secretary of State has fought us because we have raised the issue of urgent procedure, as if Parliament has been used to discussing some other way in the last few years. You have done so, gentlemen of the government. It's wrong the way we talk about it. It is not wrong for the government, because the government is collecting according to what it does. However, it is wrong because the issue of renewable energy sources and energy policy in the country is particularly serious and is not related, of course, to the “ITISIS ANTI-DUMP” park. Here, too, there is a mutation of the ideology and politics of the government and those who suggest this regulation, because the left of the movements was talking to us about self-government, collectiveism, civil society, and now it is making statement. Mr Skourletis earlier accused us of conducting a development policy on renewable energy sources with state resources. So the paradoxical, ladies and gentlemen, are the following: the first great paradox is the loss of the declared majority and the one casting majority. That cannot be overruled. The government cannot rely on the fact that here in this House there are the parties of the democratic arch or that there is the Democratic Alliance and other parties that have democratic sensitivities and a concept of culturality, tolerance, human rights and vote. However, there is a question of governmental cohesion, a government majority and a declared one. Minister, if we were to do what you, who have made reproach against the ministers and bureaux of this House, when they were judged to be crucial matters in Brussels, how would you go through this provision? So, does the government not feel the need - I caused Mr. Friends to say a word - against the government partner to say a word? What does the government partner enjoy, the perpetrators and the quarters he makes at the Ministry of National Defence? What is the ideological coherence of this government and what is the political basis on which it is based? I have already heard the rapporteur for the ANEs who spoke about the red lines. What red lines, when you voted for the superstition that bound the Greek property for a hundred years? Didn't you have a red line? When do you remember them? When you're dealing with the audience? Are we talking about this audience at which you cultivate xenophobia? They got it from other theoballers. You don't have to do this. There are the chrysayites. So this is the first paradox. The second paradox, Minister, has something to do with you personally. You blamed us here for our PPC policy. Yes, we had the "little" PPC, and we estimated that we would collect around 5 billion euros. You canceled the "little" PPC, go to sale of 17% and committed yourself with the memorandum to reduce production and customers to 50%. Against 5 billion euros, you get zero. But the paradox is that the Minister comes here and says "I disagree with the sale of 17%". We're talking about the Minister who's signed it. Mr. Maniotis filed it earlier. In politics, Mr Ministers, there is also the emotiveness, which says 'I resign, when I disagree with a policy'. Many have done so, without meaning that they are colluding directly with their parties and with their entire politics. Ladies and gentlemen, if we make a reference to the issues of energy adequacy and the policy that has made Greece an energy hub and say about the pipelines connecting our country to the energy sources, the TAP of the Greek-Bulgarian, the liquidation plant of Alexandroupolis, the pipeline connecting Israel, Cyprus via Crete and the Peloponnese with Italy, the ten plots that Mr Maniotis has mentioned and from which we will draw natural gas, we will obviously see that they have a seal, a label. It's the sign and the seal of PASOK. So when you come to have such policies, then come and compare. Don't talk to us, Minister, about a state policy which in a recent bill you exempted from excise duty the power plants. It is very much the interests you serve with your policy to have even after a year and a half of your full transition the possibility of criticising us, because we are now compared with politics. They don't compare lies and promises with cruel reality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are issues of this draft law on energy adequacy and the prospect of the country, which I said were wronged by the debate as it is. But their size shows up. Look, there were 3 billion euros in PPC's maturity. He's in danger of falling apart. Her administration said so the other day. This amounts to EUR 90 billion overdue to the public and EUR 20 billion due to the insurance funds. Put the red loans on and you'll see what the private debt is. That is why PPC's entire administration and you, Minister, are not responsible for this, because you are one and a half years in government and instead of freezing or going down and falling down and growing. So it's the result of your own policy. Don't tell us, in fact, that investments will come tomorrow, as soon as we vote for the bill, because the indicators of the economic climate are negative, the index of the formation of fixed capital is negative, 2016 will be closed down with a recession and therefore the new success of Mr. Tsipras's new success story will be based on the stagnation and the new targeting of wide masses of the Greek people. Mr President, I would like to say one last word on the mosque, because here, ladies and gentlemen, we have to put things in place. I heard Mr Zurari, who I think with a wealth of knowledge and ideas reassured those concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at things the way they are. This is not just a question of human rights. It is also a matter linked to the national strategy, with Greece at the crossroads of cultures and religions. We must have such a vision when we are politicizing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say about the 'ITIS ANTI-DUMP' park. If this consultation has taken place, what is the reason to discuss the bill with the urgent procedure and not to bring the institutions to the committee? The one who came, the mayor of Ilios, said about, "With the money you will not run the task, Mr. Skourletis". He meant the money of the municipalities, the incomplete resources you get to fund this park. As Mr Maniotis explained, we will therefore vote on questions of principle. However, where a policy is being pursued which is not appropriate to you, we shall of course vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Mr. Fotillas has the floor and he will speak from his position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. In the seconds I win because I will speak from here, I would like to say that at the end of the day the House will be turned into a school of educated magicians. When we're called at 11 a.m. the time to make a speech for ten minutes and ten minutes before you tell us we have to do it for five minutes, they probably need magic. We'll try it. As we speak of democracy today - I have heard too many speakers talk about democracy today - I would like to hear from the Prime Minister or even from the Minister of Justice from what Mr Polakis said. You know, only in dictatorship could we hear someone emanating from such statements, from whatever office, as high as they are. A judge cannot question my political position. I would like to inform Mr Polakis that in Greek democracy justice is and will be independent, and it must be independent, and it must and can judge the legitimacy of any act, any political or other act, such as citizen, Minister, state official. He can even judge the actions of the President of the Republic. So let Mr. Paulakis gather up a little bit or pick him up. You have to do something. Also, Amilitos remains Mr. Spirtzis for his best man, Mr. Kalogrica, who not only gives him the Patras - Tower project, delaying his implementation, but also gives advances, about 13 million, so that the son Kalogritsas can find the money to get a channel. Why else would he find the money to get a channel? Now, since we are talking about the bill, I would like to say that the new resolution by the ANELs of this provision in this bill on the building of the religious mosque for Muslims in our country, states, first of all, SYRIZA, apart from the country, of course, that you are always exposing it. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling party, we have said as a river from the first moment for the political paradox we are living, that is, this unholy alliance of a party of the Radical Party - supposedly - on the left with the "split" Acrossed Right. Your political allies are indeed Mr Kammenos's racists. We remember and do not forget the vote on the bills relating to fundamental human rights, when in the cohabitation agreement, when the citizenship of children of migrants born in Greece, and now by the vote of the area of worship for Muslims. But the ANELs are. It doesn't make us any impression. How dare you speak of political authorities when you work nicely with this slogan? Aren't you embarrassed when you applaud Mr. Kammenos in the bills? When do you think the opposition will unleash you into human rights-critical provisions? Has Mr. Friends not been ashamed to say and criticise Vice-Presidents for their position vis-à-vis the mosque, while his co-government party, the ANELs, always on human rights issues? Potami is a party of authorities and votes or does not vote for specific bills or provisions, based on the principles it embassies. That is why we are voting for this provision. My question is whether Mr. Friends is ashamed of this incredible cooperation with the far right-wing ANELs, as well as whether Mr. Friends is ashamed or regretting his party's attitude when he was in the opposition, where the absolute choice was 'no vote'. And all that he did not vote on today is recommended. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Now I'm gonna talk about the bill. This is the bill, ladies and gentlemen. Do you see the bill? We had about thirty - six hours to read this volume. I personally read it all. If you tell me to swear that I missed nothing, I can't do it. You, my colleague, can you do it? Can you swear you didn't miss anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u274	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u275	You, Mr. Colleague, can you do it? Can you swear you didn't miss anything? [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] So no one can say he's missed anything. This is the truth, and it is a disgrace to the institutions and parliamentary procedures. I will not, of course, talk about the bill, since I can't, because I don't have time. I will just say a few words - because I cannot say a few words - about the arrangements you are making for the Energy Regulatory Authority and the EMO, where there are a total of seventy new recruitments, mainly administrative and not technical staff. We all understand what this is all about. But where you go beyond all expectation, and I have to congratulate you on the world record, it's in Article 39, where all you'd have to do is bring us a legalist who tells us the name of man and the surname. Nothing else remains to do. I will close, telling you that I'm sick of telling you and you listen to me: While you live in power, only evil you do in this country. The sooner you leave, the better it will be for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Nikki Kerameos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. I will only say one word about the continuing humiliation of the parliamentary procedure: five hundred and twenty-nine pages legislation, which was tabled on Tuesday night, to be discussed just a few hours later, on Wednesday morning, in order to call the relevant bodies on the 3rd of August to come to discuss these key issues on the energy market. Continuing humiliation, deterioration of the parliamentary procedure and ultimately debauching Members. I'm going to get into it. With Article 24 you try to regulate the deficit of the UN special LAG account. Our concern lies in how the government chooses to regulate this deficit. It chooses to impose a special charge on suppliers. I mean, who? In other words, at PPC, because PPC, as we know, covers 90% of supply requirements. This burden of PPC will be hundreds of millions of euros. I will ask you a question, Minister: can PPC finally raise such a burden, given the very bad economic situation in which it is located? And because PPC is already in debt and because it will probably not be able to absorb these costs, there will be no alternative but to pass this on to consumers. Minister, PPC Vice-President Andreotis himself told you, Mr Andreotis, who - I read from the Minutes - said to you: "We believe that these additional charges will be difficult for PPC to deal with, if no other measures are taken or if it does not pass on to the consumer". So, indirectly and - let me - of the wicked one, you will be burdening the consumer, when you are stumbling your social face. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, this is not a left-wing sensitivity, it is a left-wing bilingualism and hypocrisy. With Article 38 you recommend new positions to the Energy Regulatory Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, I would never reflect the strengthening of an independent authority. Conservation of the functional and personal independence of the authorities is a red line for the New Democracy, to borrow an expression of your own rhetoric. We support the independent authorities, even though you are openly fighting them, even though you systematically undermine them, for reasons of ideological, insecure populism or micropoliticality. However, this provision raises reservations. And I'm explaining: Mr Minister, because the proposed recruitments are not created under the general provisions of the Treaty. IAS 2190/94, provisions providing increased guarantees of transparency and integrity and provided for the recruitment of specialist scientific staff? You said earlier that the procedures were respected. You're wrong, Minister. You have chosen the special procedure of the n. 2527, which involves a limited role of the AACC in the process. Articles 50-60, "ANITONIS TRITS" Park: This is a lung in the heart of Athens, which is immersed daily in the abandonment, with the Government showing indifference to the shortcomings, damages and the dangers it hides for visitors. So the government is coming today and tells us that it is setting up a new management body for the "ION TIER" park. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not what concerns us. We are concerned that there is no provision to ensure stable funding for the proper management of the park, how to meet the needs of human resources. We are concerned about the absence of the strategic plan for the management and operation of the park. We are concerned about the exclusion of management by local government, from the two municipalities to which the park is touching and which have both the logistics infrastructure and the incentive - primarily the incentive - to restore the park. So we fear that once again, in your best practice, you are legislating an empty letter. I would like to close with Article 35 and the building of the mosque in Athens. In addition to complying with the constitutional requirements, but also with international obligations of the country, we hope that, with the final settlement of the issue, the major problem of over 20 atypical, illegal places of worship that are currently operating in Attica in underground apartments, garages and warehouses will be addressed. There are a hundred and twenty illegal places of worship that operate in the things without any control, without basic security conditions and without respect for the right of religious faith. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I think it is understandable that places of worship should not be operated in secret. Of course it is understandable to most Members in this House, but not understandable, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to your government partner, the ANELs, who do not vote for the motto. Once again your parliamentary majority has been sedated, and indeed on key issues of major importance. But allow me, on this occasion, also to refer to the recent timeliness that demonstrates in the most obvious way the inconsistency of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens' rights are not only protected with fanatics, with proclamations and wishes. They shall be protected by the day-to-day compliance with the rules of law, public policy and security. Immunity and the systematic tolerance to violations of human rights directly jeopardise our citizens' rights and freedoms. Unfortunately, the recent events of the occupation of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, the invasion of anti-semitists in Metropolis of Thessaloniki on operating time, but also of yesterday's vandalism of churches create very serious doubts as to whether the current government can ultimately guarantee the basic freedoms of citizens, much more when, with statements by government officials, they show tolerance to such situations of violence and immunity. Ladies and gentlemen, in this country no one can do what they want without any consequences. And it is not possible for impunity to be consolidated even through the government's word. It's a matter of rule of law. And I close, Mr President, with a comment on what Mr Friend has said. Mr Philis told us that the government did not bring the order on the mosque earlier, because there was a decision on the TBR, and that the CoC must first give its opinion on the legality of the mosque and then the government must proceed to the implementation. Clear! But I wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the government - and I would ask you to listen - why is the procedure for the licensing of channels not the same? As we all know, there are many actions pending against the authorisation procedure decided by the Government, subtracting from the ERR very basic responsibilities and giving them to the Minister of State. Why, gentlemen of the government, two measures and two weights? Why don't you wait for the decisions of the HR - which are expected in two months - to be so burned for legality, to make sure that the procedure you are following is legal? Why do you do it for the mosque, Mr. Pappa, and do not do it for the channels? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, my colleague. Before I give Mrs Kafantaris the floor, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to respect the time. Mrs. Kafantaris has requested two or three more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u279	I didn't ask for it, Mr. President. Mr. Kaklamanis gave it to me at the beginning of the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u280	All right, Mrs. Kafantari. Since Mr Karathanasopoulos and the Minister will also speak, and because you know the decision of the Conference of Presidents which was unanimous - all parties have agreed - to conclude at 14.30 hours so that we can vote and leave those colleagues who have made tickets because of the start of the holidays, I would like to ask you to be very brief. I would remind you that we have a roll-call vote, but also a vote on sixty-four articles. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u281	In brief about the New Democracy precedent, I would like to say that all requests for interim measures from the channels have been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said about the bill today. Unfortunately or happily, the debate has taken another turn. Before I begin, then, I would like to say a few things about the bill: the former coup d'état of New Democracy - PASOK, and I would particularly like to say that the New Democracy, the Civic Opposition, is now engaged in a witch hunt by saying that there are triumphs in SYRIZA - ANEL co-operation. I would therefore like to say that this government cooperation of SYRIZA - ANEL - Efologist Greens - which has passed over a year and a half, but of course has a long way ahead of it - has taken a serious responsibility to get our country out of the crisis and from the tide brought by your own policies. I would like to say here that this is an example of political spaces with different payouts and advancements. However, these political areas can go side by side on specific issues and create a project that, as I have said before, is the exit of our country from the crisis. I would say, therefore, that this cooperation shows what we are talking about and say, that at the current juncture, the wider consensus is needed. This cooperation, therefore, shows consensus on the big ones. And if you would like, ladies and gentlemen, and the simple analogue voted by a qualified majority on the next elections from this Parliament, by a hundred and seventy-nine votes - far above the sum of the Members of the three parties - shows this road, the path of consensus, which is necessary today. It also shows a new democratic course in our political system. Of course, we have found this problem, such as'strokes in the conflict', in which many people have spent their places here in Parliament a little while ago, because it does not come to you, gentlemen, especially in the New Democracy. You were defeated by the exam a week ago. If I'm not mistaken, your proposal took seventy-six votes. A smaller number of votes after the transfer have not been taken by the New Democracy in this Parliament! But now I'm coming to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, especially you in the New Democracy and PASOK, who said a lot of things and criticised the urgency, I would ask you to tell me what you have done. Don't you need a self-critic? Does it not need a self-criticism that our country has no energy planning, that it does not have medium and long-term energy planning and no care for the cost of the development of RES? What have you done to harmonise European directives and specific obligations? The previous governments did not provide for an approved support mechanism for RES. On the other hand, this draft law introduces a new scheme of support for RES and STH. According to the guidelines of the European Union, we are creating a secure investment environment with support for RES production not through guaranteed prices, but through market-based mechanisms. Do a self-criticism, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, for PPC. Because now we hear you're cut off for PPC. Which PPC? Did PPC, which, although starting in the 1990s in renewable sources, come to have only 2% of production from renewable sources? What's happened all these years? What interests, domestic and foreign, were you serving as governments and so on? You are talking about PPC, which you have become and delivered with the monoculture of lignite. You're talking about PPC, which you deceived to be able to sell. And this government comes and ensures the public character, creates foreign policy conditions from PPC itself, relations with the Balkan countries, etc., while ensuring the public character of the networks and, of course, it abolishes the "little" PPC and the 30% sale, which you voted with the previous coexistence. I will say, however, two - three things on both climate change issues, for which we are bound by international conditions. I will say two things about the fact that climate change is a global issue and the RES plays a major role in preventing them. I will say, however, that our country also acquires in this multi-brand plan - because it is indeed a multi-brand - a national strategy to prevent climate change. That's not a small thing! Now, "ITIS ANTI-DUMPING" park. You remembered the "ITIS ANTI-DUMP" park. For many years you have ruled, two models were followed by the vehicle previously, after the movement that took place in 2014, which was granted to the ADD, and the “ITIS ADD” park was in the picture, in which it was. Do you have anything to say about the management checks when it became the new body? Do you have anything to say about the situation, as we receive it, which we are responsible for - do we not only take self-government, but also with an important role of selfgovernment - go ahead with the issue of the 'ITIS ANITIS' park, to take its real role as an environmental park, which is the largest in the Balkans? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Mr President, this is the last thing I will say, and it has to do with Article 36 and with the mosque. In addition to what has been said by my relevant ministers and fellow rapporteurs from SYRIZA, it is not only that a law, Law 3512/2006, is being implemented, and that this draft law deals with issues, details, how it will become the mosque, etc., but that, in the sense of the state and of civil relations, anxieties are a term of Constitutional law. Constitutionally, the term "unreligious religion" is considered to be the tolerance of the state to any known and recognised religion. I would like to say that the history of our country, from ancient times to ancient Athens - and you know where I am addressing it - was a altar dedicated to 'the unknown gods', which was a global originality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u282	Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u283	Not to say, of course, after the first decree of the Mediocles of the Great Constantine, which essentially stopped the persecution of Christians and legitimised Christianity at that time, as a permitted religion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, my colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u285	What do I mean? In Greek history, unworthy religion is a concept of respectable and true right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, my colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u287	And because we heard racist, Nazi delirium in the House this morning, I would like to say that today, on the black anniversary of 4 August - which some in here would be celebrating, we have heard it - it is important and has a symbolism to vote on Article 35, which will be voted on by a large majority, to show that our country is moving forward, dictatorship and fascism is a past.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u288	Mrs. Kafantaris, please complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u289	We're going to democracy. Democracy in Greece has been founded and we are progressing democratically. This is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u290	Last speaker is my colleague, Karathanasopoulos, from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much, Mr President. At the last three meetings, Mr President of the House, it is really a difficult role for the parties in the Coupling and Reconciliation to find issues to disagree, because they have basically voted on these three bills, the European directives and today's urgent ones, which are bills which support the essence, implement and satisfy the needs of the great capital at the expense of the people. Therefore, it is justified that their anxiety and anxiety find issues to disagree when strategic choices are subjected, government and opposition, to the jewels and needs of capital. And today's bill, which comes under the urgency procedure - once again the government resorts to this process, because it is also a Memorandum of Understanding to liberate the electricity market - it is a draft law that implements - and the explanatory statement itself says so - the Euro-Union framework for the liberalisation of the electricity market and, more generally, aims to achieve the objectives set by the reactionary, anti-grass strategy of the European Union for Europe 2020, where 20% of electricity must come from RES. And dissatisfaction with the implementation of this policy so far are the monopolistic groups, which will see the guarantee of new subsidies, new areas of guaranteed profitability. And of course, this new profitability will be judged to pay it - once again - the popular layers, which will see the satisfaction of needs being sacrificed even more in the altar of capital profitability. With this bill, a new framework is introduced to support investment by RES and co-production. The central element of this bill is the fixed aid amounts of this type of unit and, for a certain period, regardless of the fluctuations in the wholesale market. So, what's this bill doing in simple words? It ensures that it provides collateralised profits for the business groups active in the RES production sector. So the new development and the new model announced by the SYRIZA Government is based on risk-free entrepreneurship and develops free-of-risk businessmen, no matter what happens, their profits will be their profits. And that, of course, is not a new policy, at least in the electricity sector. And the previous governments did this: scandalous amounts of subsidy for business groups active in the energy sector, especially in renewable energy sources. And who paid all this money? The popular layers, the popular family, who saw daily PPC tariffs, electricity they pay, increase. Thus, the investment projects, the guaranteed profitability of the business groups active in the RES, finance them with sweat and pain from the people's families to ensure their profits. From this point of view, all that we have been hearing for decades about but political liberalisation of the electricity market which has a prologue figure is precisely the opposite. And from this point of view, if you want something, the supremacy of the JRC's proposal: While Greece is rich in electricity sources, there is a huge energy poverty for the Greek people. Who is at the heart of this energy poverty? Why is this energy poverty? Because there's a manager, the capitalist profit. While it could really be obsessed for the whole of the people's family and cover the whole of the people's needs, the supply of electricity is very accurate and many people's strata cannot meet their essential needs. In this respect, therefore, the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece for the people's energy, in the context of the people's economy, the state body, highlights supremacy and conscientiousness. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On two issues I shall conclude, Mr President. The second question is the 'ITIS ANTI-DUMP' park. And the previous governments and today, with what you do, drive the "ITIS ANITIS" park to destruction, merchandise and you have a huge responsibility for this huge abandonment, because the issue is funding. And here again, you don't put your hand in the pocket, "with foreign gums" you're trying to do it. Are you setting up a new private body, private law, to do what? Accelerate the privatisation and further commercialisation procedures of the ‘ITIS ANTI-DUMP’ park? Is that why you put the particular composition of the NGOs in it? Is that why you've put it with the NGOs inside to have a representative? That's the first. The second, who will pay for the operation of the "ITIS ANTI-DUMP" and the new body? Of the central self-resources of the seven neighbouring municipalities. In other words, you have cut down the central self-resources, cut them and more to operate the "ITIS ANONY park". And thirdly, the debts they have who will cover them? The development link. How will these be covered? Again from the central self-resources. Well, in the end, there's nothing left. And from this point of view, this development is very dangerous for the existence, operation and enhancement of the "ITISIS ANTINS" park. And I'm ending up with the mosque. We, Mr President, will support the article on the mosque, because it is precisely our logic and our principle - we do not now change positions and attitudes according to the provisional political context - and we also agree that the cemetery should have been created for Muslims in the religion. In this respect, therefore, we remain on this line and will vote on the case of the mosques.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u292	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of speakers has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u294	Before supporting the amendment made by both colleagues?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u295	I'll hear them first.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u296	And then you. Ladies and gentlemen, an amendment has been proposed - an addition by colleagues, and so on. Rose Mitafidis and Constantine Morfidis. Mr. Mitafidis, you are a very good speaker. I hope in a minute you've presented it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u297	This amendment has an urgent nature and will make it easier for the public to collect debts established to the customs authorities from 1-6 2015 until 31-8-2015. These debts come from statements of goods covered by excise duty. They could not be paid by the companies because of the bank holiday and the limitation on the movement of capital and because of the actual financial failure to meet their obligations. I think that the amendment we tabled resolves this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor. We hang up with you and think a little bit about time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u299	I'll be brief. First of all, the amendment supported by Mr Mitafidis by a general number of 635 and a special number of 56 is accepted. Three things I want to say, although they were said during the two-day sitting, it seems that some insist that they do not understand. There is no signature by the government for privatization, for dismissal of 17% of PPC. And what you've discovered is the FEK that updates the ITD's asset development plan, including assets that the PASOK and New Democracy government had put in. Our effort is through the creation of the new superstition to exploit public property to weaken the TIADED and cancel this particular privatisation. That's the government's position. It doesn't sound for the first time. It doesn't just sound from me. It has been heard by other ministers. But of course you, as we said before, have become a porte - parole of privatization of public property and, in particular, PPC, which you have literally targeted. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Slow down your comments, Mr. Javarra. Secondly, PPC’s debts are not more than 3 billion. It's 2,300,000. So no false evidence is spreading. Thirdly, we are fully implementing the policy of regulation with thirty-six instalments, without an advance. This success is also demonstrated by the large number of citizens - over six hundred and fifty thousand - who have been subject to this regulation. You have inherited the UNHCR deficit as a result of an anarchist and distorting way of developing the EIAs in our country, and you are coming here criticising a proposal that goes to house things and goes to close the deficit without proposing anything. That's called irresponsibility and microheart. As a small heart you show in the proposal for the "ITIS ANTIME" Park, where while failing this project, you are currently making a review of the safe. There is a specific, substantiated proposal and the "ITIS ANTI-DUMPING" park is saved. Finally, as far as the positions relating to the UN and RAE are concerned, they are positions which are covered by the existing legality, which we fully respect. It concerns specific regulations for energy regulators. The only derogation that exists relates to pay in some cases and not to all posts, which will come out after a joint decision with the Ministry of Finance. The little heart that has dominated you is captured that you couldn't even say a word right...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u300	Tell us the law, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u301	...for a real measure - for the rural world, which is the history of the application of vitual net - metering, virtual self-production, which will be a cut-off for professional farmers and will enable both educational institutions and municipalities to reduce their energy costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u302	Minister, have you accepted the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u303	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u304	The amendment has been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u305	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Comrade, what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u307	The amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u308	The amendment, Mr President, has not been tabled. It cannot be voted without dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u309	You are right about the substance, you just need to know that in the Bureau there have already been statements by your colleagues who want...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u310	He was filed at 14: 30. We've got to get on with it!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u311	I'm not questioning the procedure. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u312	The first thing is typical. The Conference of Presidents has decided on the procedure for the debate in which we agreed that the urgency drafts will not be tabled. The second standard is that it was tabled 14: 30', one hour ago and after our rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives had spoken. And thirdly, the essential thing is this: where is Mr Alexiades, the Minister responsible for public revenues, which moves us every time, to say who is covered by this suspicious amendment? That is the point of the matter. Because, Mr President, we have tabled an amendment for three months because of capital controls. This is not what this is about. These are some people who didn't pay and we're going beyond the fixed provisions to wash them out in ten days. The Treasury must be placed and you must not be looking to find the party patriots to get the burden off you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u313	Thank you. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u314	In addition, in order not to abuse the time, even if this unacceptable amendment is accepted, will the guarantees in favour of the Greek State be lifted with 3% of the capital? They're disclaimed, it says, seizures after 3% has been paid. And on ten days, who will know what has happened, Mr President? Only those who are already informed. [[Noise in the Chamber]] It is only the informed ones who have been informed before. This amendment should be withdrawn and the Minister for Finance should come and look at the issues. Guarantees of the Greek State are being removed and the Greek State is being damaged. We can only accept this five before the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. I would add to what has been said by the parliamentary representatives of the other parties and two other suspicious points. The first thing to worry about is that there is no report from the General Accounting Office of the State, no valuation. Are you bringing an amendment to regulate any customs debts, without any indication of the cost situation of the other conclusions, whether financial or not, from the General Accounting Office of the State? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, just quiet down. Secondly, why are you telling us that there must be an extension within ten days of the publication of the law? You are either covering or withdrawing this amendment. In an emergency procedure, half an hour before the meeting ends and you bring us this! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u317	Yes, sir. If we don't be quiet... [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] Mrs. Keramea will take the floor. Doesn't it matter to hear her say what? I can't hear you from here. Please, Mrs. Kerameau has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u318	Mr President, we thought we had seen everything in Parliament. We are discussing today in urgent procedure a bill of five hundred thirty pages, which I very much doubt how many people from here have read it in whole. I think maybe no one. We are discussing a bill, a multi-legislative bill, which has been tabled under disgraceful parliamentary procedures at the closure of the House for the summer holidays, and it comes to the closure of the procedure, while all our colleagues, the relevant ministers, a parliamentary amendment, have been placed, not to say crypto-ministerial amendment - and not to say shameful - on matters which I doubt even a Member here can explain to us what exactly they are dealing with. We ask the Minister responsible to immediately withdraw this amendment and bring it under normal procedures, together with a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. Otherwise we must also decide how to place ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u319	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Maniotis, because Mr. Koutsoukos has spoken, I don't think...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u321	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u322	Here, Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, I want it to be quite clear. If no explanation is given for this highly suspicious amendment, the Democratic Assent will leave the House now. We will withdraw from the vote. It will either withdraw the government's amendment or be given very clear explanations, and why it will do so one hour before the summer closure of Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u324	Yes, sir. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, we will say that this is a strange and process and an amendment. In an emergency bill, two and a half hours and it was a very important question of customs violations. Without knowing who it is about, what amounts of infringements it is about and how this issue should be addressed. And why would these dates be from 1 June to 31 August? And without a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. We call on the government to withdraw this amendment because, apart from being curious, it will also be scandalous.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u326	Yes, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has asked the floor to comment and answer the objections. Mr Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. To answer the issues raised. First of all, this amendment helps to obtain customs debts. It's not an amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u328	Minister, 3%? Put it on for the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u329	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u330	You put the questions. Shouldn't I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u331	Mr Colleague, do we want the clarifications or do we not want them?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u332	You asked me to answer. I asked why...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u333	You asked the Minister to answer. Let's hear what he's gonna say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u334	We understand why this is happening. So I'm just finishing up very soon. It helps to obtain debts from companies that have submitted capital controls, for a specific period of 1 June to 31 August, made statements on payment of excise duty - namely, content - and without this regulation, these companies, which have provided cheques at the time and have not been able to repay the excise duty, because it is precisely because capital controls have been submitted, can now be regulated from two to forty-eight instalments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u335	And the ones who lost this arrangement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u336	And because 3% was heard, 3% was the first dose. So we give them a very narrow margin of ten days and say 'in ten days you deposit the first instalment and dismiss your debts in forty-eight instalments'. [[Noise in the Chamber]] If you people who are shouting for more doses disagree, say so. As far as what has been said about 'defiscations on the hands of third parties' is concerned, because it has been said, with respect for your legal view, that they are confiscations on the hands of third parties. This isn't about what you said. So this amendment helps businesses...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u337	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no way we can have a debate in this way. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u338	It helps collecting...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u339	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to make references to names. There is no way that the debate will be generalised in this way. It can't be. It is over, the intervention procedure has been closed, with all the parties involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u340	How has it been closed, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u341	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u342	Mr Kegeroglu, please let us hear what the Bureau will say. The debate on the substance, with all the factors in today's debate, has been closed, namely parliamentary representatives, special speakers and others. An amendment has been raised, there have been objections, the Minister answered. There is no other way to stay on this issue, since the Minister is not withdrawing it, rather than voting on it. I don't understand if there can be any other procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u343	To be discussed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u344	A more general debate than at the outset is not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u345	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u346	I assume you want the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u347	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u348	In the case of proceedings, we mean that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u349	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Nothing more. I address the immediate minister, Mr. Skourletis. Mr Skourletis, we had two days of meetings in committee and plenary, and in principle we agreed on a bill that helps to develop Greece. I would like to ask you, and I give way: take back this amendment brought by another Minister, who you do not know, who you do not know on the substance of the matter to whom he refers, to whom you cannot look at it. Take it back, so that you do not dynamise and destroy Parliament's function to such an extent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u350	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u351	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u352	Mr. Maniatis, wait a minute, here's what I'm going to say. There is no possibility of closing this debate abruptly. I won't. But we must also be aware of time, time and attitudes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u353	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Maniatis, let me tell you. I'll give the floor to those who raise their hand. There's no way I won't. The only difference is that we have to agree that the Conference of Presidents has decided that we are closing down at 14.30 p.m. Obviously, he did not know that the amendment was tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u355	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u356	Mr. Kegeroglu, let me run the conversation. Please! We must therefore have a more flexible procedure. I understand that. I say that I will give the floor to all Members who raise their hands, specifying two minutes for everyone, but I would ask you, with a sense of time, not to generalize the debate. Thank you very much. Mr. Maniatis and Mr. Karathanasopoulos for now have the floor. Mr. Loverdo, I saw you. Then. Mr. Maniotis, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u357	Mr President, as a Democratic Alliance, we want to be very clear. We agreed that no amendments should be tabled. We agreed to conclude the procedure and went on to do so smoothly. Apart from what was agreed at the Conference of Presidents, apart from what we had agreed up to an hour ago, this is incomprehensible, which cannot be accepted, not by this House - I really address my fellow Greek citizens. An amendment with purely economic object, which could have come and had to have come with the signature of the Minister and a report from the General Accounting Office of the State, which says how many people are benefiting, how many are losing or winning the state, and why we are doing so now, it is incomprehensible that such an amendment should come without a report from the General Accounting Office, signed by only Members and accepted by the non-economic Mr Skourletis. It is degrading the legislative work of all Parliament, half an hour before the work is closed. We said that the government should take it back, bring it back after twenty days that the House is reopening again, and I am glad to hear from the Secretary-General and signed by the Minister - not an amendment to Members - to talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr. Maniot. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Mrs. Bakoyannis and Mr. Loverdos have asked for the floor. I sincerely ask, if possible, that we limit the debate to these colleagues. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u359	In fact, Mr President, the Minister's answer has created more questions. A lot more questions. Because we would understand an amendment concerning an extraordinary event that happened yesterday, and we want to deal with it, rather than a one-year event that the Minister knew and prepared for. And when yesterday and yesterday, the Minister himself, Mr Alexiadis, had brought an amendment to tax matters, why didn't he bring that? He brings it last day, just before the House's meeting is closed and stops for the holidays. So here there's a plan in our view. And the plan is about what he wants to cover up in this way he comes in that form. Who is concerned, how many will benefit and what amount will be of benefit? Because, Minister, and with the respective act of legislation you have brought in a year and a half ago and you have been abrogating for the great people over a million the increments and fines they have had for tax and customs violations, some major business groups have benefited. And with today's issue, as you do in secret, we are very afraid that some are behind it. So we ask the government to withdraw it, because it will add another black page to the issues that have to do with violations of the Tax and Customs Code, with the issues of tax evasion and protection of those who evade tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u360	Those who took the floor respected the second. Please, however, a little quiet, so that we can respect those who are speaking. Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor. Mr. Amyras and Mr. Loverdos are added and we're closed. Here you go, Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u361	Mr President, it is clear that this amendment is an amendment by Mr Alexiadis. He did not want or dare to bring it under the normal parliamentary procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, as our parliamentary representative has already pointed out, a climate where we come to vote in good faith in a bill which the government characterises as urgent and five minutes before the roll-call vote the government accepts an amendment which ends the seizure of Greek public assets, giving only 3% of the original debt, you realize that this arrangement is not innocent. The Parliament of the Greeks is not "washer" of malpractice and we are not prepared to contribute to such reasonableness. If Mr Alexiadis wants to bring us the names of the people and companies that he wants to facilitate and explain to us why he will lose jobs or whatever he thinks to convince the House. But such an amendment from the Greek Parliament must not go through, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, because, after responsibility, not only will the government have it, each one of you will have it personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mrs. Bakoyannis. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. 263a]] Ladies and gentlemen, an amendment was tabled to the end of the sitting, which was supported by a specific argument. I understand that we did not have the opportunity to discuss it during the two-day process we had yesterday and today. Because these amendments, which come in good intention and should not be shaded by any other kind of purpose, I think we should withdraw and that is what we are going to do. [[Applause]] The Minister responsible, at the beginning of the process after the summer holidays, would bring it back with more information so that there would be no shadow of any kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment is withdrawn. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is adjourned: 'New scheme of support for power stations from renewable energy sources and High Performance Heat and Power Co-production - Provisions for the legal and operational separation of supply and distribution sectors in the natural gas market and other provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote on the principle and Article 35 by Members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u366	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Nikolaos Michaloliacos. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Aivatidis. Here you go. Mrs. Salvation Vlacho. Here. Mr. George Germenis. Here you go. Mr. Antonio Gregos. Here you go. Mrs. Helen Zaroulia. Here. Mr. Panagiotis Iliopoulos. Here you go. Mr. Evangelos Karakostas. Here you go. Mr. Elias Cassidy. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Kouzilos. Here you go. Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Michos. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Barbarousis. Here you go. Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros. Here you go. Mr. Christos Pappas. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Shahinides. Here you go. Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u367	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. [[The abovementioned letters are entered in the Minutes and read as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 268]] There will be a roll-call vote on the principle and Article 35 of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘New scheme of support for power plants from Renewable Energy Sources and High Performance Electricity and Heats — Provisions for the legal and operational separation of supply and distribution sectors in the natural gas market and other provisions’. Receiving the principle and Article 35 of the bill reads: ‘WHEN’. Not accepting the principle and Article 35 of the bill reads ‘OH’. The voters say 'PARON'. Mrs Panagiota Dritsel is on the list by SYRIZA and Mr Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau, in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in which they state their vote on the principle and Rule 35 of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u368	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letter, sent to the Bureau by Mr Kontonis, pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, is recorded in the Minutes and read as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u369	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a number of colleagues will not be present in today's roll-call vote and we will be notified by letter of their vote. I am reading you the list: Tsipras Alexios, Voutsis Nikolaos, Katsavrias - Siropoulou Chrysula, Karakostas (Evangelia), Evangelia, Famelos Socrates, Vernardakis Christoforos, Katrugalos Georgios, Baltas Aristides, Kozis Nikolaos, Kokodimos Konstantinos, Antonios Maria, Kefaloyannis Ioannis, Konsolas Emmanou, Asmakopoulou Anna - Misel, Meimarakis Evangelos - Vasilios Christos, Aygeias Eleftherios, Plakatiotakis Ioannis, Bouros Athannis Kantolos Kantolos Theodoulos, Ioannis Kantolos Kalikos, Panasthos Ts Ts Kalikopoulousiakonos, Panakopoulos - Panatopoulos, Panatopoulos, Panatopoulos, Panatopoulos Tsikonosiosilios Tsilios Tsilios Tsiosiosiosilios These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes. [[The letters referred to above are entered in the Minutes and are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the pages in. From 271 to 312]] CHANGES PAGE
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u370	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Until the count is completed, we proceed to vote on the remaining articles of the bill. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u371	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u372	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u373	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u374	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u375	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u376	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u377	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u378	Acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u379	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u380	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u381	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u382	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u383	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u384	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u385	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u386	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u387	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u388	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u389	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u390	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u391	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u392	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u393	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u394	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u395	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u396	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u397	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u398	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u399	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u400	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u401	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u402	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u403	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u404	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u405	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u406	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u407	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u408	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u409	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u410	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u411	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u412	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u413	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u414	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u415	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u416	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u417	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u418	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u419	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u420	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u421	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u422	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u423	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u424	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u425	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u426	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u427	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u428	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u429	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u430	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u431	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u432	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u433	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u434	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u435	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u436	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u437	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u438	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u439	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u440	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u441	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u442	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u443	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u444	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u445	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u446	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u447	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u448	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u449	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u450	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u451	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u452	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u453	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u454	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u455	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u456	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u457	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u458	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u459	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u460	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u461	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u462	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u463	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u464	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u465	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u466	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u467	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u468	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u469	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u470	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u471	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u472	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u473	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u474	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u475	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u476	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u477	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u478	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u479	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u480	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u481	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u482	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u483	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u484	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u485	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u486	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u487	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u488	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u489	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u491	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u492	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u493	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u494	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u495	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u496	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u497	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u498	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u499	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u500	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u501	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u502	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u503	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u504	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u505	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u506	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u507	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u509	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u510	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u511	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u512	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u513	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u514	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u515	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u516	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u518	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u519	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u520	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u521	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u522	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u523	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u524	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u525	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u526	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u527	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u528	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u529	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u530	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u531	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u532	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u533	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u534	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u536	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u537	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u538	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u539	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u540	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u541	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u542	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u543	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u544	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u545	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u546	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u547	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u548	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u549	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u550	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u551	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u552	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u553	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u554	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u555	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u556	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u557	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u558	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u559	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u560	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u561	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u562	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u563	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u564	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u565	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u566	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u567	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u568	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u569	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u570	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u571	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u572	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u573	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u574	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u575	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u576	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u577	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u578	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u579	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u580	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u581	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u582	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u583	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u584	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u585	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u586	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u587	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u588	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u589	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u590	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u591	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u592	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u593	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u594	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u595	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u596	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u597	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u598	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u599	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u600	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u601	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u602	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u603	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u604	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u605	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u606	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u607	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u608	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u609	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u610	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u611	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u612	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u613	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u614	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u615	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u616	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u617	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u618	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u619	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u620	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u621	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u622	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u623	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u624	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u625	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u626	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u627	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u628	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u629	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u630	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u631	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u632	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u633	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u634	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u635	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u636	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u637	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u638	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u639	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u640	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u641	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u642	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u643	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u644	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u645	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u646	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u647	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u648	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u649	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u650	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u651	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u652	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u653	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u654	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u655	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u656	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u657	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u658	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u659	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u660	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u661	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u662	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u663	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u664	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u665	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u666	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u667	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u668	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u669	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u670	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u671	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u672	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u673	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u674	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u675	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u676	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 35 was put into roll-call vote. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u677	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u678	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u679	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u680	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u681	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u682	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u683	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u684	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u685	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u686	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u687	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u688	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u689	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u690	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u691	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u692	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u693	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u694	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u695	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u696	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u697	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u698	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u699	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u700	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u701	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u702	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u703	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u704	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u705	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u706	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u707	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u708	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u709	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u710	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u711	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u712	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u713	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u714	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u715	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u716	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u717	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u718	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u719	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u720	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u721	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u722	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u723	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u724	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u725	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u726	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u727	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u728	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u729	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u730	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u731	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u732	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u733	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u734	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u735	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u736	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u737	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u738	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u739	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u740	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u741	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u742	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u743	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u744	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u745	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u746	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u747	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u748	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u749	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u750	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u751	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u752	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u753	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u754	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u755	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u756	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u757	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u758	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u759	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u760	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u761	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u762	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u763	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u764	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u765	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u766	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u767	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u768	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u769	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u770	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u771	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u772	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u773	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u774	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u775	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u776	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u777	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u778	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u779	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u780	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u781	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u782	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u783	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u784	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u785	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u786	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u787	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u788	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u789	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u790	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u791	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u792	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u793	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u794	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u795	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u796	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u797	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u798	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u799	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u800	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u801	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u802	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u803	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u804	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u806	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u807	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u808	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u809	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u810	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u811	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u812	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u813	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u814	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u815	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u816	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u817	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u818	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u819	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u820	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u821	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u822	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u823	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u824	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u825	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u826	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u827	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u828	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u829	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u830	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u831	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u832	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u833	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u834	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u835	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u836	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u837	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u838	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u839	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u840	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u841	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u842	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u843	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u844	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u845	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u846	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u847	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u848	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u849	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u850	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u851	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u852	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u853	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u854	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u855	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u856	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u857	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u858	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u859	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u860	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u861	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u862	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u863	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u864	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u865	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u866	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u867	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u868	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u869	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u870	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u871	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u872	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u873	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u874	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u875	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u876	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u877	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u878	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u879	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u880	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u881	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u882	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u883	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u884	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u885	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u886	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u887	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u888	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u889	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u890	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u891	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u892	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u893	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u894	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u895	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u896	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u897	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u898	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u899	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u900	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u901	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u902	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u905	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u906	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u907	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u908	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u909	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u910	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u911	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u913	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u914	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u915	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u916	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u917	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u918	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u919	Article 62 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u920	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 230 Members voted. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 210 Members voted. Against the start of the bill, the 'OH' vote was 20 MPs. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘New scheme of support for power plants from Renewable Energy Sources and High Performance Cogeneration and Heats - Provisions for the legal and operational separation of supply and distribution sectors in the natural gas market and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. Article 35 has adopted a total of 230 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 206 Members voted. On the basis of this article, 24 Members voted against. Article 35 of the draft law was therefore accepted by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u921	We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u922	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u923	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u924	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u925	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u926	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u927	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u928	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u929	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u930	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy ‘New scheme of support for power plants from Renewable Energy Sources and High Performance Heat and Electricity Conformity – Provisions on the legal and operational separation of supply and distribution sectors in the natural gas market and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u931	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u932	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u933	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u934	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u935	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u936	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u937	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u938	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u939	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘New scheme of support for power plants from Renewable Energy Sources and High Performance Heat and Electricity Cogeneration - Provisions for the legal and operational separation of supply and distribution sectors in the natural gas market and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u940	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u941	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-08-04-S1-commons.u942	With the consent of the House at 16.55 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, August 5, 2016 at 10 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
