ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 6-7-2016, PNZ's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, of Wednesday, 6 July 2016, with regard to: (a) the vote on the whole draft law: "Definition of Council Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom on the system of the European Union's own resources", as well as (b) the election of Vice President of the Greek Parliament.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Mario Katsis, Member of the Thesprotia, the following:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[To enter page 2a]] B. REQUESTS OF SUPPORT IN BULGARIES
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The fourth question by number 1077/4-7-2016, first question by MP B' Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of State, on the letter of the Commissioner responsible for matters relating to the recent media licensing law, will be discussed. In the timely question, Mr Nikolaos Pappas will answer. Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, when we had a debate in plenary and in the Conference of Presidents on your law on television licences and related matters, I had invoked, among other things, Directives 2002/20 and 2002/21. I had invoked these directives in trying to form a common field between us, legal, which governs the issues you want to regulate. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. You despised all such suggestions, saying that you and your colleague, Mr. Spirtz, do not all of this. But the Commissioner's letter for Mr Etinger's digital economy and society came and put things in place in relation to EU law, that is, in relation to your framework and our framework. He told you that you have many more possibilities than you would like to give in the form of a television licence. The institutional framework imposes pluralism, demands information and the technical aspect of the technical framework, gives you much more opportunities than you are using and points out that the non-use of this technical framework has a problem and asks for your comments. For anyone who knows, it can understand that this is the beginning of a procedure, which if the country's arguments are not convincing, there is a matter for the European Commission to appeal against Greece. Minister, at the same time, in this text, that is, in the text of the letter, there are too many comments in its operative part, concerning the lack of respect by your legislation, namely the legislation on television licences and related matters, in relation to the regulatory authorities, the independent administrative authorities. Specific reference is made to the Single Regulatory Authority and the respective Independent Telecommunications and Post Authority. It has not dealt with the matter of the Radiovision Council, because this concerns another complaint by interested parties and will be dealt with as such. That's what's coming too. In this sense, Mr President, you cannot say - and you must say so - that all this institutional framework has nothing to do with the question of television licences, since it is very reasonable to say that even the minds of the minds are the first and then the second one, which will follow the answers you will make with your own remarks. In this sense, first of all, the limitation of the possibilities associated with communication, namely a good duplication for the person who accepts the product of communication and for the person who sends it, and secondly, with regard to the violation of respect - the respect due - to the independent authorities, to overlook all this and to say that nothing has to do with your permissions this whole letter and its content is a classic political ostrichism. I put my head in the ground, I don't see, and because I don't see, I think there's no politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u4	Please ask questions, please, for the Minister to answer, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u5	Yes, but I wanted to close, Mr President, my thoughts and I think I have not been too time-consuming in relation to day-to-day.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u6	Yeah, but finish it up so we can move on. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u7	I therefore insist, Mr President, that I turn to the government and call the Minister of Press, State, 'Minister of Propaganda', because his main task, as it seems, is to alter reality, to violate the truth, in view of the interests of the government, which he serves.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u8	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Nikos Pappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Loverdo, I'm really surprised because you don't hold on. You insist that you be exposed to the Greek people - I am very sorry - and because I appreciate that you are a smart man, I wonder why you are doing so and why you are insisting. I don't know where you think you may be giving tests and who you expect to see and rejoice with your position. I sincerely waited after the latest developments, at least the extreme designations of 'democratic ministers' to avoid them. He recalls what you and your fellow Member, Mr Venizelos, have said, "This bill will become our grave, that the speech is Georgalas, the minister of propaganda who wants to check the information." Why all these extremes? In fact, at this time you come and ecstomize them, on the occasion of events that have been exposed to you. Because in politics there are...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u10	What are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u11	I'll tell you. In politics there are historical mistakes, such as what your paradox has done, identified with the extreme neoliberal policies and the extreme version of Mr Samara's New Republic, but there are also great gaffes. In one of these things, you have suffered, Mr. Loverdos, this week. Why did you suspect in a big gave? Because I think you've rushed to say that I was caught lying, but it seems you are the same as someone who sees the banana peel in front of him and instead of turning, he breaks his luck because he's going to fall back. That's what you're doing, Mr. Loverdo. Your question has come to rely on a post that said there is a letter-block for television licenses. You've moved the subject. Some have caught it in the afternoon notes and they say 'in the air the competition for permits'. It does not go through a few hours, there is a post on a European website euraciv.gr which says exactly that there is no connection between this letter from Commissioner Etinger and the issue of licences. If that is not enough for you, it has not been too long, and so has the Commission's representative. Indeed, it has been repeated - and here I would like to highlight it - after persistently - and welcome to the journalists - questions from journalists. He said three times he had nothing to do with the issue of permits. Why, then, do you insist on being exposed? I think that the time you have chosen to raise this noise is not accidental, because it was a 24-hour-old before the debate in the Council of State on applications for cancellation and interim measures, which the property of the channels has submitted. It's sixty-six the total number of documents we've received. But I think that the attempt to create a climate of confusion has started to create anger. I think we have the opportunity to say with pleasure at the moment that the competition is under way in its last stages. Eleven files have been filed. In the next few days, I think, we will move forward and complete the pre-selection process and the auction will take place at the beginning of August. Make sure that you are not exposed, and do not expose the fact that you are presently represented.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if you'd said this a few months or a few years ago, maybe someone would listen to you. But you say it while you have frameworks and policies, as far as your Government and people are concerned, as far as your subject matter is concerned. You're framed, Minister. Around your face are moving politicians and faces. And because you are framed, you must be more restrained, as far as the designations are concerned, and for me personally, and for the fact that I have the honour to represent, but also for our political context. Minister, I didn't make general references. And since I am also a lawyer, I made specific references to EU law, which I had foretold in October, and which is now made clear to you by Commissioner Ediger's letter. I made special reference to page 27, which contains the most specific terms of the letter, not of the spirit and meaning, that you intervene arbitrarily, specifying only four permits. On page 28, in the most clear way, it tells you that you are directly violating the independence of the independent administrative authorities. I don't speak vaguely. I'm talking in particular. And because the issue of licensing is judged on the number you arbitrarily decided on, but also on the fact that you intercepted the competence of the Broadcasting Council, there is also a second slap. That's the first. Here comes a second. You cannot say that it has nothing to do with each other, when the number of licences, which you have arbitrarily determined, is four, and here the European Commission tells you - and not us anymore - that the possibilities are much more and on purpose you do not use them. One of the prisoners. Secondly, I respect you as a political and natural person. But as far as your subject is concerned, you are acting as the 'Minister of Propaganda'. I wonder why you were upset when I treated you against a political exaggeration, not with the absolute accuracy of the terms, 'North Korean Minister'. You're giving licensed TVs. Your government decides which popular gathering is legal and what is not legal. You are generally a political party, which does not work in the context of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u14	What else are we gonna hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u15	He's insulting us all!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u16	It is very characteristic, Minister, to give you another argument, to see that I support my political speech on the arguments given to us by your former colleague, James Galbraith, who said for March 2015, which is very combined with the time frames of the Baroufakis conversion, which you gave with your statement a few days ago, that, that is, he was in favour of folding and reintroduced to the classroom. This is February 2015. And March 2015, Mr. Varoufakis' partner - an economist, you can't say he doesn't know, you can't say he wasn't, because he was - writes in his book that you had prepared the X project, according to which extraordinary need would be declared in the country, i.e. army, instead of wages and pensions, there would be promises, etc. So in your mind there are what we're talking about. It simply bothers you to talk about it, because you do not accept the political criticism. You think it's outrageous, intertwined. You consider it illegal, unconstitutional. You don't like criticism. But your role as Minister is intertwined with criticism. You need to combine this in your mind and accept it. You will be subject to criticism. There's no other way, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u17	Good. Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u18	Now, you have this letter, which is a letter at the beginning of the relevant legal procedure. You don't exchange views. The European Commission tells you what EU law is - and we have told you here - and it says'response to our remarks', which are very strong in order to obtain a second signal on their part, which means opening the appeal procedure against Greece. All this is done, Minister, while the other theme 'Broadcasting Council and TV licences' has not yet been dealt with. That's coming, too. I asked you in my timely question - and that is what I am most interested in, since the exchange of designations between us is about political controversy, but, for the substance of the case, it is another matter - if you are thinking about making changes. Union law gives you a concrete opportunity and thinking and, as this is interpreted by the European Commission. Can you get the message? Do you intend to make changes? And if you're going to make changes, what are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u19	Good. Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u20	Mr Loverdo, I would tell you that you obviously do not get the message, because all that remains - I imagine - is that you claim to be the authors' information to the European Commission. Honestly, I don't understand. What else must be said to understand that you pressed the banana peel? I really hoped that - something you have suggested, of course - you will take a honesty step and come here to say 'yes, it has nothing to do with permits'. Support your position on the number of licences. There's no objection. But now can you tell me I'm not used to criticizing myself? What these media ministers have suffered, what vulgarities and what sickness have been done, I really don't think it has a precedent! Let me tell you that no one needs to be a soccer man to connect these vulgar attacks to the licensing process, which we are progressing with coolness and determination. You're asking me if we're going to make any changes. We have, as I have said before, eleven interested parties claiming four licences and that is very satisfying. The Competition Committee has received the files, the audit has started and, in cooperation with the Occupational Auditor Company, the procedure will be completed by July 14th, where the list of candidates who have passed the pre-selection stage will be announced and will go to the auction. At the same time, we have come to the consultation of a draft law on the electronic advertising system, because you know that in the distribution of advertising we have a situation with great opaqueness and a very wide-ranging circulation, say, of black money or opaque transactions or transactions called something, while it is something else. I think you should have a contribution here too. Of course, we have also advanced the online media record, where more than two hundred fifty websites have been written. I will also remind you of the fact that public services and banks now have to publish the distribution of their advertising time. Now I will answer you clearly. If you expect us to change policy and say 'a, excuse us, we were wrong, we are going back to the status quo, Mr Loverdo, because we were the only country in Europe that had no licensed television stations. This reality does not honor you again, I would expect a word of self-criticism, which I have not heard. What did you want us to do? The "rules of the royal pie"? Prolong the legal status of stations that do not hold a licence? All right, everyone has the right to appeal to justice and to defend their special interest, as he thinks. But what are we looking for here? Should we go back to what status? The status of non-licensing? However, I am very afraid and this is teaching - and I regret your attitude - that you have rushed to ask this question and to the tone you are using - that the problem was not the interests. The problem was the political forces, which, for informed publicity, chose to defend these interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister Pappa. We move on to the debate of the eighteenth under the number 1017/21-6-2016 topical question of the second-cycle question of the MP Ioanninas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Mr.Akopis Toufis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the deletion of students from OAED's registers. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Urania Antonopoulou. Mrs. Jufi has the floor to develop her question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you for your direct response to an issue that, as you know, is much better than me, an important population group, that of the unemployed and the students in public IEK and which is a multi-level issue with important social and political implications. It is known that the previous period has raised the question of whether or not they have the right to hold an unemployment card from public IEK students. In fact, following complaints, OAED, interpreting a number of contradictory laws and European provisions, issued a circular with which it proceeded to delete students from the Agency's registers, for example in the city of my country of origin, Ioannina, but also elsewhere, such as in Rhodes. The implementation of the Circular would result in the loss of the unemployed status during the course of the course of study, the interruption of the unemployment card to the subsidised and unemployed, leading to the zeroing of the previous unemployment period. Moreover, the working students lost their unemployment benefit, and there was a problem with their participation in the financed OAS programmes. However, the above provisions, as you know much better than I do, conflicted both with changes made to the earlier law of 1985 and with provisions laid down in European regulations and with the rules of operation of the Vocational Training Institutes, which defines those drawn up as available for work. After fair student mobilisations, which were calling for this injustice to be lifted, and for the decision of the Agency to be revoked, but also with interventions and discussions at the central political level, the OAED Board at its recent meeting on 14 June decided to correct a significant part of the injustices against students, who are also the content of the timely question I have addressed to you. However, the OAS Board of Directors states that it is also necessary, on the basis of what I have said earlier, to regulate, in particular, the unsubsidised unemployed, who remain registered, without the length of their studies on unemployment. Legislative regulation is the responsibility of your Ministry, which is why I would like to ask you what actions and initiatives are geared towards taking the leadership of the Ministry in this direction, but also others that are probably essential, in order to remove injustice against the non-subsidised, particularly, and to resolve the issue in a fair and socially satisfactory manner, overcoming the abominable legal landscape and restoring the public's confidence in public administration, particularly in the context of this very difficult economic situation facing our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. We call on the Deputy Minister, Urania Antonopoulou, to respond for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is our government's duty to restore justice and correct any mistakes it finds from the past. Indeed, OAED’s practice to remove the unemployment card from unemployed who also wanted to be students in public IEK was based on the OAED circular number 439/26-4-2013. Our ministry has recently received complaints, particularly since mid-April. On the basis of all the complaints we have received we have tabled and explained to the OAED administration our point of view and - as you have said - its administrative board has taken this decision, which has already been posted. In particular, the subsidised unemployed continue to maintain the status of unemployed during their studies, since their grant has not expired. Therefore, the payment of the standard unemployment allowance continues. Workers whose employment relationship is resolved or terminated during their training shall also be entitled to a regular grant. As far as the non-subsidised unemployed are concerned, as you say, what has been corrected is that they remain in the register, that is to say not to take the unemployment card back. You are right to say that the length of their studies will not be taken into account in the time of unemployment. As far as this last point is concerned, we are investigating it. The need to take action on this injustice you have presented is being investigated at the moment. We'll come back. As the lawyers have already told us, this is much more complicated. We need to look at various aspects before giving the directive or making the necessary legislation. We'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Jufi has the floor for three minutes for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u26	Thank you for your specific and informative location. I hope there will be a clear timetable for the issue that, as you said, remains open. You will allow me to insist and add some more information in this direction, which you too recognised needs to be resolved. IEK students do not receive any allowance, as we have said, during their studies and we are talking about studies lasting two years and not a few months. It's not about a voucher. Therefore, public IEK is a programme of vocational studies, and students could be treated as students, the rest of the students on the issue of maintaining the status of the unemployed, and there are other issues open, such as, for example, the reduction in the price of the ticket to the public transport, which we had mentioned to an earlier question, signed by several fellow Members and by me. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the role of the public IEK must be strengthened and upgraded so that these institutions are able to meet the current challenges and requirements and, of course, without creating unequal conditions for dealing with the respective private institutions, at the expense of the public institutions, taking into account that the majority of the trainees are adults with increased family obligations that do not have economic gains during the training programmes, but in addition, and above all, are young workers who are tested by the unemployment conditions, which you know very well - and better than me, and are fighting in this direction - that they have been created in recent years because of the harsh austerity policies in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Ms. Merope Jufi. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u28	As I said before, it is a matter that we are considering. We will be back in a short time. We fully share all the points you have raised. In many cases, the differentiation between public and private IEKs is much healed by the regulation we have already made. Our aim is to find a fair solution, but it will contain the element of equality towards everyone within a very short period of time. So we'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much for Mrs Urania Antonopoulou, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. We move to the first with number 1078/4-7-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Athanasios (Sakis) Papadopoulos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the amendment of Article 33, last paragraph, of Law 2859/2000 on the Validation of the Code of Added Value Tax (VAT A' 248/07-11-2000). In this timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos has the floor to develop his question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, Minister, this timely question was raised by the obvious weakness of several hotel businesses and, of course, a total of many businesses in the country, in circumstances of hard fiscal adjustment and a lack of liquidity, within five years to complete their investment project. And while they were given the opportunity to carry out their investment project by means of interventions from the Government and the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism as a whole, with an extension, in respect of those projects, the facilities, the completion of their investment project, which was not given the opportunity to start it within five years and may have begun a year later, the refund of value added tax is requested. It is a question, therefore, of which the collective expression of the hotel business, the hotel Chamber of Greece had intervened and is intervening again now. I therefore believe that we have to answer a specific question about how we can give them the opportunity not to undergo additional bleeding during the hard period that we are experiencing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. The Foreign Minister now has the floor, Mr Alexiadis, to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, your question enables us to illuminate an investment sector in which there have been problems for businesses without them being responsible and you are really showing this issue very clearly. Many companies have not been able, because of the economic crisis, within the five-year period prescribed by the law to complete investments at tax level and thus have problems with VAT issues. As far as the government is concerned, our position is very clear on what we are planning on investment issues. I do not need to repeat these issues. We are doing everything possible with a new institutional framework and taking advantage of the previous one, in order to promote investment, which is in the interests of the economy, society and business and not just the businessman or various local interests. As far as this question is concerned, I will submit to the Minutes of the Indirect Taxation Application Directorate, which says that in this financial framework, the amendment to Article 33 is one of the possibilities to relieve investors. I will present to you a document from the Ministry of Finance Tax Policy Directorate, which clearly states that the relevant departments of the Ministry of Finance intend to consider the lifting of this restriction as well for companies that implement investment projects under Laws 2601/1998 and 3299/2004. And finally, I will also present a document from the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism, which clearly shows what you are saying in your question and which you said now, that in many of these cases, while the time horizon for tax purposes is five years, for development reasons it has been extended beyond five years until 30 June 2018. What is clear is that the Ministry of Finance is considering solving this question because it concerns businesses, it concerns investment, and we want to facilitate investments and not create any problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Papadopoulos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u34	I think that you have given a satisfactory answer, because we find that the tax facilities for businesses, during the new development law that we have voted on, seriously support the possibility of companies really completing investment projects, which were not given the opportunity to complete. I think that by implementing this facility in the sensitive sector of our tourism investment, we will really be able to make it easier for them to complete their investment projects successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. The Foreign Minister has the floor, Mr Alexiadis, for his second-guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u36	I don't have much to add. I would like to confirm that in the investment issues and in the institutional framework, which we have voted on at tax level, but also with the new provisions, which we are preparing for the next period, we will solve such problems and see how we are going to deal with this kind of problem. For hotel and other businesses, similar problems have been identified. We have already solved enough and solved the next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister Alexiadis. We move on to the first with number 1079/4-7-2016 topical question by Hercules MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the degradation of IKA branches for the insured of Heraklion. In this timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have been faced with the conscious political choice of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK to depreciate and reduce the public sector during the previous period. This has led, among other things, to the degradation, substation and closure of IKA’s hub shops in the mainland of Heraklion, so that for a long time a large proportion of the citizens of the prefecture have been swayed. Let us note here that these methods have been carried out without a study of the particular local features, without any cooperation with local operators, but with a single criterion - as they serve - the least state, the depreciation of the public sector and the depopulation of public services. It is characteristic that significant branches either have closed or are out of business. I am referring to the following branches: the Vianno branch - the most remote municipality of Heraklion - which has been closed down, as has the Arkalochori branch, which serves around the fifty-thousandths of thousands from the centre of Heraklion, and has been decommissioning as well as the Hersonissos branch, which serves all north-eastern Hercules, and finally, the Moires branch which serves all the area of Messara, that is, over seventy and eighty thousand inhabitants, including, indeed, the inhabitants of the south-eastern Rethymno. Since the previous governments and the former heads of the Ministries of the New Democracy and the PASOK falsely assured the citizens of Heraklion of upgrading the operation of these IKA stores, while ‘shopping’ their services systematically, and since the plan for the Single Social Security Agency is under way, in order to serve all citizens, I would like to ask you: What is the Ministry's planning for the current period, but also for the next period, for the reinforcement of branches and for the service of IKA's insured persons in the above areas? Secondly, how will the integration of the funds and the subsequent transfer of personnel meet the current needs of the county, covering the gaps and shortcomings created by the previous governments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenidis, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Anastasios Petropoulos has the floor to answer the question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I understand, Mr Igoumenidis, that under pressure from the needs of the insured in the county you ask your question. We have developed from this position the new prospects of the social security system, as described by L.4337/2016, the law that we passed two months ago. This law that creates the Single Social Security Agency solves all these problems that are the dimensions you describe, because social security institutions everywhere are understaffed and inadequate to serve the needs, due to the structures of the social security system. Therefore, with the Presidential Decree to be adopted by the end of the year, which will very specifically define the needs of the region, what should be done on staff and infrastructure, you will have a precise picture of the service of citizens everywhere. However, I must say first of all that the picture we all have in mind about the social security system does not correspond to the picture of the future, because the social security we want to create is a direct access to all the insured, without mediation - in many cases - officials and infrastructures. It will be the electronic interface, the non-intermediate means of making requests, the receipt of the answers, to inform the insured person about the issues which he would sometimes have to resolve on the ground, and the services of each institution will be on the ground. Although there was this situation in Crete, think about what is happening on a number of islands, whose inhabitants would have to come to Piraeus, stay one night to submit an application and take the next day possibly a protocol paper, waiting for the answer to be given in the future. The situation is dramatic everywhere, throughout the country, in all professions and especially in those who do not have direct access, locally, even in the same prefecture. There are areas of county that you travel to stay someday because of a lack of communication infrastructure, so that you can be served. The picture, however, is that the Heraklion Regional Branch instead of employing a hundred forty-seven people, which are organic positions, employs ninety-eight and has absorbed the potential of the insurance of the Mutes and Arkalochori. There is also the office of Agios Minas and the office of Alikarnassos. These three points are serviceable, all subordinated. Of course, you realise that the solution is not to simply open up shops. It's more complicated. I'll fill in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, if the image of the present is ugly, worse than the past, it does not mean that the image of the past was good, and indeed, I agree, if you will, with the future and the image of the future, as the government is planning it. It is true that we are entering a period of digital age, where we will use this very thing as an important tool to serve citizens, to finish the Rusphetological and Customer Base of the previous governments. I think it is time, in fact, to cut off the umbilical cord of the party state, on which the PASOK and the New Democracy governments relied. I think that so, with social justice, citizens will be served immediately, without intermediaries, without all this rhetorical and customer logic. In this sense, I believe that at least the Members of the SYRIZA express them. We'll all be with you to proceed with this design. But let me raise two points. The first is that in the areas that I have mentioned, but also in the areas that you have mentioned, Mr Minister, namely in the islands, there is a population that is not familiar with the new technologies and that, obviously, there will be a difficulty in being familiar with it, its first contact with the new system that you are saying and which I agree with you that we need to move forward. How are we going to resolve this matter? How, then, will the Single Social Security Institution tackle this problem in its earliest steps? The second is this. I accept from your answer that by the end of the year we will have a specialization. My question is this: How and when could the Ministry give more specific official communications on the new design? Consider it by the end of the year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenides. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u44	We have already made a great deal of progress in the organisational process. December 31st is the ultimate time to be issued by the Presidential Decree of the new Social Security Agency. That doesn't mean we haven't been working since today. With regard to these needs of insured persons who are not familiar with technology, I must say that access points to social security are infinite. It is not just the home or business of the insured person, but it will be the Civil Service Centres, it will be the seats of associations of professionals, chambers, and social security everywhere. It will have access from any point of view to every citizen and this will of course be done through an information process and by bodies. Such meetings and local conferences will also be held for discussion and consultation with professional bodies to implement the entire social security system. But the buildings that exist, which I know in Arkalochori or in Moires are a new complex...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u45	And the Hersonissos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u46	And the Hersonissos. It is a new, newly built structure, which has good building infrastructure, and we need to make use of it. It's not the only one. The social security institutions, which we are organizing, have significant real estate everywhere in Greece. We already have a special group working in this area, which has been totally abandoned all these years, in a deterioration and dismantling, with enormous loss of income, which actually meant imposing costs. It was a burden on the social security institutions over the past few years. We'll make it a profit, make it a wealth. This will also be the case for infrastructure in Crete, especially in the Hersonissos. Perhaps with the services of the Ministry of Health we should also see the provision of services in areas that are multiplier in order to make use of such building infrastructures for the provision of services and health, whatever social security means, that is, care for the weak and the defenceless. That's what's in mind, that's what we're going to take care of, and that's what we're organizing. Be sure that these results will be much better than any image you can imagine that we can achieve in the area of health and security services for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Petropoulou. We move on to the debate of the sixth under number 1071/29-6-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on the Volkswagen automotive industry. The question will be answered by the State Secretary Marina Chrysovelloni. Mr. Kammene, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, this is a very well-known matter. This is the second question I have raised in a sequence of the first, Mr Spirtzis, and we discussed the Volkswagen scandal, when it broke out, with the fraud against consumers by falsified systems of analysis and emissions of pollutants. I won't be long. I'll just ask the questions. We want to know at what stage the research is in our country and when responsibility and similar compensation are expected, such as those of the United States of America. In the United States, Volkswagen made an agreement two days ago to pay about $15.3 billion for the fraud in America. We want to know what is happening in Greece. What is going on in Europe is what I have to say in my dentistry. Second question: Will cars be purchased with tempted software on the Greek market? And if so, how much? I ask, because the agreement in America provides for either a right by the owner of the car and a right to rectify it, a right to rectify it, a right to resale and a full compensation of USD 5 000 to 10,000 to every consumer who has been deceived. We must say that in America we are talking about nearly five hundred thousand cars, while in Europe for about eight and a half million. So the fine in Europe should be or should be ten times as high as Volkswagen than the $15 billion in America. Finally, as you have notified us in your previous document, you have made available to the relevant Services of the General Secretariats of Income, Environment and Energy and Consumer Protection, a list of vehicles bearing the tested software, as well as correspondence with the Committee and the CDI, to investigate actions to 'the treatment of any harm suffered in the public interest'. Please communicate the results of this action to us. Let us say that around nine thousand three hundred cars have been released in the Greek market, and I am doing everything I can to do for my dentistry, saying that Europe has no legislation. Not strict, but there is no legislation at all to bring actions against Volkswagen, for European consumers, Mr President, to receive compensation for Volkswagen. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] The rest in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. The State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr. Chrysovelonis, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the question you have asked our Ministry. Indeed, the deception of certain automotive industries, as in the case of Volkswagen, when testing emissions of nitrogen oxides, using suspension devices, with a view not to undocumenting the real situation, has achieved a very strong blow to the credibility and confidence of the citizens in this sector. It is indeed a very big issue, which has taken on global dimensions and implications from the outset, as you admit it in your question. But we must recognise that from the outset there has been a comprehensive response at all levels. Now, in our country the use of the contested software in certain types of vehicles and specific automotive industries is about twenty-one thousand five vehicles. For his part, therefore, our Ministry, as you might know, has immediately mobilised the services so that a complete, reliable record of all traffic vehicles in our country can be made and bear the contentious software in question. In the absence of any comments, the Commission concluded that there was a likelihood of recurrence of injury caused by the dumped imports from the PRC and the Union industry. So this information, Mr Papoutsis, will be submitted to you today in electronic form in the Minutes and will be available to you. This whole process is still in the process of processing by the stakeholders. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Marina Chrysovelonis, presents for the minutes the above electronic given fact, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] Now, on the part of our Ministry, and always within our competences - because I can only refer to them - once the whole process has been completed - and you can be sure that we are moving at a very fast pace - we will take all legal action for all those cases where there will be evidence of violations of the legislation on the issue of type-approvals. At the same time, the procedure for withdrawing vehicles and complying with the specifications of the corresponding type-approvals has already begun, as is the case in all the Member States. Even - and here I will announce for the first time - in the context of the preparation of a draft law drawn up by our Ministry for Transport, which will come and be submitted to the Greek Parliament very soon - and will, in principle, go up to consultation - a provision of law that promotes certain strict sanctions in cases of breach of the type-approval legislation, which will certainly cover the specific case we are dealing with today. I would also like to inform you that the judicial authorities have reacted immediately and are expected from that point of view to developments. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the State Secretary]] Withdraw your time, Mr President, from my dilemma. I would therefore inform you that, following relevant information from the Ministry of Justice on 6-10-2015, it was established on its own initiative and on behalf of all responsible persons or on the grounds of O2015/132 criminal case-file, which was charged to the competent prosecutor. On 8-10-2015 this case-file was forwarded to the 13th Athens court for a preliminary examination. At the end of this examination, he returned to the Athens Prosecutors' Prosecutors' Prosecutors for further processing. Of course, you will be aware that the evidence obtained from this preliminary investigation in relation to this case-file at present cannot be disclosed, since any preliminary investigation carried out has the character of absolute secrecy. At the European level, as you will also be aware, because I know very well that this issue - and rightly so - concerns you very much, I would like to inform you that on 7 June 2016 the Council of Transport Ministers of the European Union held a meeting in Luxembourg and on the other issues that have been discussed, this issue was also discussed in a more general form, firstly, the reduction of nitrogen dioxide from diesel vehicles. The reason for this debate was that the scandal was at issue and, of course, there was a universal recognition that the control systems should be greatly strengthened. On the Greek side, he was present - representing the Greek Government and our Ministry - Minister Spirtzis. The need for a common approach to address such problems was particularly stressed, as well as the right information for consumers on measurements, but in real driving conditions. The way in which you have dealt with the problem in the United States of America, which has made a detailed reference to this question, is that it should always be assessed and assessed on the basis of the legal, judicial and legislative framework in force in the United States of America. In any case, as you will of course know, every consumer affected has the possibility and the right, resulting from the law and, of course, from international conventions, to move judicially and seek compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Marina Chrysoveloni. Demetrius Kammenos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much. The objections and attempts of Europe are laughing. I shall read a statement from the Commissioner for Industry, which pleases Europeans and their colleagues to find a way of creating a law to deal with the 'VOLKSWAGEN' scandal, fraud. The Commissioner herself is saying it. I shall put it to the Minutes, so that my colleagues can study them. Unfortunately, it's in English, it's like the statements have been made. Since the Commissioner would ask that there be legislation and that we find a way for the eight and a half million cars and the cheating of European consumers so that they can move against VOLKSWAGEN as European citizens, if there is no legislation and understand it, she says there is a problem of communication between states. In other words, should one state be contacted to bring an action against 'VOLKSWAGEN'? I don't get it. There's a lot of talk. And he comes here - look out - the CEO, the boss of "VOLKSWAGEN" two days ago and says this joke. Here I am going to give a small parentheses and comment that Europe, once again, seems, at least at the moment, Mr President and Minister, to be the law of the mighty. The mighty decides and the mighty makes laws. So I quickly translate his statement into English. It made it clear that VOLKSWAGEN has no intention of providing equal treatment for Europeans who bought counterfeit oil cars. He said that the stricter legislation of the United States in relation to emissions of pollutants made it much more difficult to make cars in America - the boss of VOLKSWAGEN says so - which is not the case in Europe. He says we don't have any laws, so I'll do what I like. The dialogue continues because the European Union's spokeswoman was invited to respond in relation to his statement, which stuttering her words - because I have the video - and could not convince any journalist what Europe will do. It says that, because European authorities have failed to make an aggressive legal response to VOLKSWAGEN for all technical machinery, that is to say, for this software that you have controlled emissions of pollutants, which has put more than 11 million motor vehicles, most of which have been sold in Europe, it is not possible to compensate European consumers and to force VOLKSWAGEN to pay. I don't want to get far. I will leave to the Minutes and statements by her boss 'VOLKSWAGEN' and the statements by the European Commissioners and another relevant article, which is extremely important. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We must decide here as Greece and as a government if fraud is to do with the fraud of the consumer. That's a piece. You quite rightly said, Minister, that everyone can move on their own. As long as there's a framework. As we know this work, we must not fall into the lukewarm of going all to Europe together and move against VOLKSWAGEN. Don't get carried away in this, because that's the only way that's never gonna happen. As Greece we have to move on our own, find out the element of deception, which is a fraud against the consumer, which is also a felony. Many of the consumers not only bought cars but bought them in good faith that they are less damaging to the environment. Because of their sensitivity to environmental pollution, they bought cars, for which they were completely deceived. Secondly, the tax and traffic charges they pay are a fraud against the Greek public, because they paid less traffic charges for these cars with more pollutants. So he's lost money and the public. And the public, together with the consumer, must move against them, against this deception, plus the commercial part. I conclude by saying, Mr President, to you and to everyone, that I am two months old and I am looking to find myself in this public service, if we decide to put a fine, who will charge it. You know there's no one? There's no one to charge the fine. It used to be the Ministry of Trade. Now there's no Ministry of Trade. Honestly, we are going to solve this problem. Mrs. Chrysosvelloni knows. We talked yesterday. And thanks for what he said, for the good news. It's gonna be the law. We will have the body, which will charge the fine, because without him, as you know, the fine cannot be charged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened very carefully to Mr. Kammenos's position. They are really very important and the evidence he told us and submitted. I would like to say to you that you are certainly aware of the fact that, Mr Papoutsis, you are also taking part in this effort as a Member of the Independent Greeks - that this government has zero tolerance on the issues of inter-terrorism, corruption and deception of the consumer. I believe that, with the analysis I have made, it is understood that our Government - despite the fact that it is in a difficult economic situation, which, if you wish, also focuses on the government's interest in the reasons for the well-known - has taken several steps, at various levels, to address this extremely serious issue, which is the subject of your question. I would like to reiterate once again that our objective - and I believe that we have a partner in this direction for the European Commission - is, above all, the restoration of consumers, who have been affected by this history and, of course, the strengthening of the credibility of the car industry, its competitiveness, but above all, of the confidence of the citizens in the industry. I sincerely want to assure you - I think you have understood that - that the actions on the part of our Ministry will continue and culminate with the deposit of this bill, to which you have also referred. Of course, the actions that will be taken, not only by our Ministry, but also by the other ministries involved, will actually bring the desired result and I think we will make the difference with the other European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. With regard to the fourth with number 1070/29-6-2016 topical question from the MP Drama of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Haras Kefidou to the Minister of Finance, on the free entry of museums and archaeological sites for visual artists, I would like to inform you that the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Juliarakis told me that she has informed Mrs. Kefidou that the request has been resolved, there has been a decision on this. I do not know whether Mrs Kefalidou has been able to do so, or whether she has speeded up this process. Mrs. Kefalidou, do you want to say something since you're here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u56	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u57	We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Respecting the parliamentary procedure, I am here today. I was informed yesterday by Mr Juliarakis that the timely question tabled by us has mobilised the procedures and so we have a positive outcome. I would like to ask very warmly, because the joint ministerial decisions until they become laws have the EKT version, to speed up the process as quickly as possible, because summer months are the most crucial for the people involved in the arts. They are the months when their presence in museums and archaeological sites is more intense. It's a shame to have another precious time lost. I would also like to thank the Minister and you very much for the opportunity you have given me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou. We will do everything possible to make the version of the FEK as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Friday 6 May 2016, Saturday 7 May 2016, Sunday 8 May 2016, Monday 9 May 2016, Wednesday 11 May 2016 and Thursday 12 May 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u60	The minutes of Friday 6 May 2016, Saturday 7 May 2016, Sunday 8 May 2016, Monday 9 May 2016, Wednesday 11 May 2016 and Thursday 12 May 2016 were validated. I will now read the timely questions that will not be discussed. The eleventh question under number 914/27-5-2016 of the second Piraeus II cycle of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the creation of illegal kindergartens and boardrooms in Xanthi, will not be discussed. The twelfth, with number 545/15-2-2016, is a topical question of the second Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Health on the problems of operation in the EKAB, and will also not be discussed. The third, with number 1081/4-7-2016, topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the staffing and development of the Investment Planning and Technology Department (TEI) of the TEI in Kilkis, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad, in particular Ms. Anagnostopoulou, which is in China with the Prime Minister. The seventh question under number 1083/4-7-2016, first question by MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the fire protection system of the Sheikh Su, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister, Mr. Toska, abroad. The second one under number 1074-1-7-2016 is a top-stage question by MP Halkidiki of New Democracy Mr. Georgios Vagionas to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the risk of stopping the construction of vital projects in Halkidiki, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The third, with number 1069/28-6-2016, timely question of the first cycle of the Member of the Evia People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the "inaccurate remote sensation of land leading to an unprecedented economic stale of cotton growers", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible because of his obligations. It will, however, be redefined for discussion. The fifth, number 1084/4-7-2016, timely question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the implementation of the Collective Work Agreements at Hotels, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr Katrugalos. The second question, under number 1075/1-7-2016, of the second question of the Athens MP, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister for Health, concerning measures to limit the illicit trade in medicinal products, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Health, Mr Andreas Xanthos. The first with number 5701-27-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the design for the start of the multi-powered Dragon Tymbalio of Heraklion Crete, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible. The Member, Mr Kegeroglu, is present and has the floor for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. An important issue on which the question, which we have tabled as written, has not been answered and is coming as unanswered with the statement of the Minister for Liquidity today. I hope there is a good reason why the Minister did not come today because I heard that there were other questions that were not answered either. However, the issue of the Tymbakis region is equally serious, because it concerns a very large part of the population. The multi-medical centre is ready from NSRF funding, as an infrastructural infrastructure and as technological equipment. In many cases, this infrastructure is integrated and it needs the activation of services so that it starts to function, in order to address the major health problems in the wider Messara region. That is why I would ask you to pass on to the Minister to deal with the substance of the matter and, of course, to come next week to answer our question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The issue you are addressing is very important. Ladies and gentlemen, the following topical questions will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Pavlaki: The fifth, under number 1080/4-7-2016, a topical question from the Member of Parliament for the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, Minister for Health, on the establishment of the EKA in Larissa Law and the creation of EKAB areas in health centres in Larissa. The sixth question under number 1044-27-2016 of the Second Cycle of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of Health, concerning the professional and work upgrade of the ‘help nurses’. The tenth third under number 944/3-6-2016 topical question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health, concerning patients who operate at their own expense at the University Hospital of Thessaloniki "ACHEPA". The sixteenth, under number 935/31-5-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health, concerning the shortcomings and problems of the fleet of the EKAB. Likewise, the fifteenth under number 966/7-6-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Health on the situation in the State General Nice. Likewise, the seventeenth under number 825/254-2016 topical question for the second parliamentary assembly of the Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Health concerning the residual functioning of the Anticancer Hospital of Metaxas. Mr Panos Skourletis will not discuss the following topical questions: The seventh question under number 1041/24-2016 of the second cycle of the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr.Georgios Lazarides, concerning the examination of the successful examination of the Energy Inspectors by the Second Chamber of Deputies of Greece. The eighth Question No 1043/24-2016 dated the second question of the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the premise of tragic developments in the field of electricity production. Due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr.Nikolaos Friends will not discuss the ninth with number 1047-27-2016 topical question of the second cycle of MP for Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Ministers for Education, Research and Religious Affairs and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, on measures to encourage the training of refugees. Also, due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou, the following topical questions will not be discussed: Athanasios Papachristopoulos (Minister of Finance) on the extrajudicial compromise of the Greek State with SIEMENS. The fourteenth under number 961/7-2016 topical question of the second cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Athanasios Vardalis, with the Finance and National Defence Ministers, concerning the Greek Vehicle Industry (‘ELVO S.A.’). Also, for the same reason will not be discussed the second with number 4375/304/31-3-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Finance, on the financial size of the contract with Kim Glen. For the same reason, the third under number 3062/10/2016 is not going to be discussed by the Independent MEP Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos, the Minister of Finance, on the compensation of shareholders of Cooperative Banks. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-07-S1-commons.u63	With the consent of the House at 11.55 a sitting is closed.
