ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The first under number 483/2/2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Gerasimios Balaoura to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the cost of using electronic means of payment, will not be discussed due to the impediment of Minister Stathakis, who is missing abroad. The second, with number 484/2-2-2016, is a top-stage question for the Prime Minister of Athens, Mr. Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, regarding the absence of the State in the necessary projects to protect the Hymettos, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister. The third question will be discussed under number 475/1-2-2016, first question by Evia MEP - Golden Dawn Mr. Nikolaos Michou, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Greek olive oil and large multinationals, the placing on the market and the workers in it". This question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Marcos Bollaris. Here, Mr. Micho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in American multinationals, the government intends to hand over our 'national treasure', olive oil. According to complaints from farmers, proposals have been made in specific regions for the construction of three "mega factories" of olive and olive oil. In fact, a sponsor of this effort seems to be the National Bank. The three areas targeted by the American multinationals are Western Greece, the Peloponnese and Crete, which, as we know, produce very olive oil. As expected, in these areas where the'mega factories' are to operate, they will close about two thousand seven hundred fifty mills of olive oil. So I want you to answer the following questions: Firstly, what is your strategic design for Greek olive oil, its placing on the market and the workers in it? Do you intend to turn Greek farmers into low-paid workers of large multinationals? Secondly, do you know that the quality of olive oil (acidity) is directly related to mass production? With what qualitative advantage will Greek olive oil compete with the large productions of Spain and Italy, which, as we know now, have made hybrids and with large machines beat the olive, she falls in, do not have labour and have large productions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Bolaris, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Colleague, there is the answer to your question. So you're saying the government intends to hand over the olive oil to a multinational. At the same time you say that proposals have been put forward in regions, namely regional selfgovernment. Who did they testify from? From a multinational. Where's the government on it? Nowhere. I would like to assure you, however, that first of all, anyone who wants to invest is understandable. In the design by the government for too many reasons there is no such plan, namely to make two or three mills, closing the 2.170 mills operating in the country and that is for too many reasons. One of these reasons is the fact of the quality of the oil. We cannot have extra virgin olive oil if we shave and travel the olives from Corfu to take them to the Peloponnese or from Mytilini to the Peloponnese. These things can't be done. So what I want to say - and I said last week - is that the government notes with interest that Greece has become aware that we need to add value to our products. I note that when in Greece virgin olive oil produced is 80% of production, in Spain the percentages of extra virgin olive oil are vice versa, 20% being extra virgin olive oil and 80% are the other categories. It is therefore of great importance to add value to both the farmers' effort and to the local economy and to the processing and standardisation and to the national product, that this exceptional virgin olive oil should use it and complete the process before it is exported from our country. That can't be. We export about 50% of the quantity of olive oil produced. From that in previous years, standardisation has involved only 20%. So the government's aim is to step up and insist on this strategy. I'll finish my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Michos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like you to tell us whether you will allow me - my question is specific - to take the trade in oil to that multinational. Because, as we know, this is not the first time that this is happening, but we are not the only state that the multinationals enter and take everything. And on the other hand, as we know, the aim of the multinationals is to get what we have in Greece, even our land. Whenever you want, I can give you many examples. A few years ago, some attempts had been made to put Spanish trees, some hybrids from Spain that have a high price because of medicines, given that they are very sensitive to diseases. Thus, the grubbing-up of old olive trees in Greece took place. However, as Minister and as a government once you want to give the basis to the primary sector, you must denounce the previous governments for the damage they have done. So they sold these trees like wood and right now in many areas there is no oil, such as Mytilini and the Peloponnese. They ruined all the old trees, the locals, the domestics, to put linear olives that will not have a cost, the machine to enter, throw them into a cage and take them to the olive mill. This olive oil reaches up to 6 acids! It is what you have said before - and with which I agree - that the quality olive oil produced by Greece is 70% - 80%. On the contrary, Spain has 20%. But, on the other hand, they force us to put these trees in. So you're gonna let the multinationals in? Why? In order to compete with the markets in Italy and Spain, we must also have mass production. So the old trees have to be grubbed up and new linear, as they are in these states, and the quality of the olive oil has to be ruined. The good olive trees will again take a few hands, they will be exploited by few, they will export, they will bottle them, and the Greek farmers will have nothing. As you know - and you said it yourself - Greek olive oil is gold. In some countries, such as Northern Europe and Russia, they have it as a medicine and we do not attach any importance to it. And on the other hand, you will protect this year, next year, the anti-Government, the olive oil prices. However, how will farmers be protected against the damage done by the big traders who come from Italy and take it massively, mixed it with foreigners, with their own oils outside, send it back to us and all the good, the quality oil sends it to America and saves the money? How will farmers be protected and what are you going to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u7	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u8	I have already made it clear that the government's policy has nothing to do with any studies submitted and with which articles are published. This is not the case. The purpose of the audit in this Chamber is not to confirm or disprove articles or intentions. Government policy, as exercised by the Ministry, aims to support the oil producer, to support the production of excellent olive oil, to support export efforts to reach this highly virgin Greek olive oil standardized, packaged in the best shelves in the world. For this reason, the Ministry was held and continued to hold meetings with the operators who manage the olive tree, olive oil, oil. I am referring to the national interprofessional organisation, I am referring to the organisations of processors, craftsmen and industrialists, as well as to the effort made by the country to support three major promotional projects, with which Greek oil producers and processors are intervening abroad. These are programmes of 16 million euros and close to them, but six smaller projects, which not only go to oil and olive oil, but go to a package of Greek products, namely: 'The olive oil - cheese', 'The olive oil, olive oil, wine', six such programmes with which we are intervening in international markets. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And for the proof of the government's political will and the targeting of the government - Madam President, I will conclude - that in the 2014-2020 programming period, in measure 4 in the AAA, we have programmes to support, firstly, oil processing plants, which means modernization of oil mills.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u9	That's from the previous government!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u10	Secondly, the establishment and modernisation of standard olive oil and, thirdly, the establishments, extensions, modernisations and relocations of processing plants for edible olives. These measures aim to increase the added value of the Greek products of all businesses and private and cooperatives and to support olive oil as a product, which is one of the best ambassadors of Greek products abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u11	Mrs Christodoulou, for questions that will not be answered?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Constantinople, this question is completed. Let's go to the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u13	I'm sorry, Madam President, wait a minute, why is it done? We are here for that very reason. I have a question for seven weeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u14	What?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u15	I have a question for seven weeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u16	Wait, here now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u17	Wait a minute. I want you to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u18	What about, Mr. Constantinople?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u19	That for the seventh consecutive time, for two months, Mr. Chakalotos is not coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u20	Hey, what do we do? What's he doing? Is Mr. Chakalotos sitting?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u21	Can you not see that this Parliament has been spit on for the seventh time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u22	Does Mr Tsakalotos spit it out or is he constantly negotiating?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Chakalotos! For two months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u24	Was she sitting down?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u25	Mrs. Christodoulopoulos, I don't know if he was melting or sitting, but the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u26	Leave the jokes now, okay? Well, I'm not responsible for answering you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u27	I'm not making any jokes. You're joking. And I am very sorry, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, for covering Mr Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u28	The current question 427/19-1-2016 of the MP...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u29	Mrs. Christodoulou, you will listen to me. Here you are not the government's long arm.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u30	Let me go, Mr. Constantinople! The topical question by MP of the First Thessaloniki Party of the Communist Party of Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u31	Mrs. Christodoulou, you will listen to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u32	Please, I said! I'm not going to answer you what every minister does.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u33	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u34	I've explained he won't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u35	I'm the one who's here, please. The House... Please listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u36	Well, then I'll turn you off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u37	You'll hear me! You'll hear me! You'll hear me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u38	No, I won't listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u39	You'll hear me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u40	I'm not going to hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u41	You'll hear me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u42	Go on, Mr. Constantinople. Don't sit here and show us now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u43	You cannot cover government ministers who do not come to answer the parliamentary work for two months! It's a disgrace to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u44	What are you talking about? What do you think? Do you know the Rules of Procedure? Can I answer you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u45	Of course, you'll answer me. You represent the House today. And he's made a decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u46	Please! We will now discuss the sixth question by number 427/19-1-2016 of the second question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the resumption of additional teaching support for the country's schools this year. The question will be answered by Minister Nikolaos Friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u47	Madam President, are you a government minister? You're not a government minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Delis, you have the floor after Mr. Constantinople stops, who demands that I answer him because Mr. Chakalotos does not come.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u49	Of course, you represent us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u50	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Chakalotos...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u52	Before you came, sir, I answered. However, I will again say to you, because it has number 5, that it is not debated because of an impediment from the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Chakalotos...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u54	Sit down, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou, you won't get out of here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u55	Come on, Mr. Delis. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Chakalotos, Mrs. Christodoulopoulos,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u57	Now what do you want, Mr. Constantinople? What do you want? Do you think you're exposing Mr. Tsakalotto now or the government? Mr. Tsakalotos until Friday, who left the quartet, met 15 hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u58	And? Is he tired?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u59	No, he was meeting 15 hours. He didn't have time to come and answer you. He's got a lot of tasks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u60	If you're tired, leave!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u61	Let it be ‘driving’. Come on, Mr. Delis. Close Mr. Constantinople's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u62	It's okay, I'll talk like that. I'm not gonna stop talking! Mr. Voutsis and Mr. Kourakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u63	What am I supposed to do now? Do you want me to throw him out? He now thinks all the viewers are on the bars to listen to him. Okay, good. So say it so you can enjoy yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Voutsis and Mr. Kourakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u65	Leave Mr. Kourakis and everyone. Whoever is here in the Bureau cannot answer you. I have a piece of paper here that says which ones he doesn't answer and for what reasons. That's what I said, nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u66	What do you think, Mrs. Christodoulopoulos, we're all sad? Here you are responsible for the ministers coming and answering. But for two months Mr. Chakalotos...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u67	We heard, we heard. What do you want me to do? Should I make a violent induction? You said it, it's over. Do not block the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u68	Please listen to me for a minute. Do you think...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u69	Again? You said that. Tell us the new one. She hasn't answered you for two months. What do you want from me? Say what you want, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u70	Look, here you are not a government minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u71	I don't understand! You are addressing me as President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u72	Madam President, you are saying this with a very great deal of power, as the honourable Member says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u73	Yeah, and what do I do, Mr. Maniot? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u74	You must say that you will bring the matter to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u75	Oh, let me answer that. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u76	For two months. You can't go through it like that. You're very relaxed, I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u77	That's what I'm saying. Your colleagues in the Democratic Alliance will put it that way too. Every time this is said, the ministers are not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u78	Madam President, please, you are representing the national Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u79	That's right. Well? And what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u80	You're not representing any party. A colleague of yours says that for seven times the Minister is not answering. Say you'll bring it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u81	And what am I supposed to do, Mr. Maniot? Leave now, don't lift the tons for impressions. We heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u82	Do not discuss other issues. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u83	Mrs. Christodoulou, I'm done. Let me tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u84	You have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u85	Look, that's what you're gonna say to SYRIZA Counselors, not here. Here is Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u86	What do you say, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u87	In SYRIZA's components, tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u88	You take the floor on your own without having given it to you. Now you're afflicting everyone who's waiting to do their job to tell us your clever ones!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u89	Are we stalling you? How many questions have been answered today, Mrs Christodoulopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Delia, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u91	Are you being delayed by your duties?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u92	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u93	Are we stalling you? You want to leave?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u94	What should I leave, sir? The process just started.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u95	Please listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u96	There are people waiting to do their job.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u97	And we've been waiting for two months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u98	Yeah, good! And what am I supposed to do? There's no Minister here to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u99	And Mr Tsakalotos, instead of coming to answer us,'spits' and'spits' Parliament and the institutions. If you think it's raining, you have the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u100	All right, sit down. That's great! Mr. Delis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Madam President. The JRC's topical question concerns the reinforcement of pupils in primary and secondary schools and additional teaching support for high school pupils. It concerns those students throughout the whole range of primary and secondary education throughout the country who, because of the socio-taxial inequalities, the capitalist barbarism we live in, have many more obstacles to overcome in order to satisfy their educational needs. It is mainly about children of poor, populace families, families who are their first concern for survival, because of the anti-popular policy that continues zealously and your own government. You have, in fact, announced, at the beginning of this year's school year, Minister, the relaunch of strengthening teaching and additional teaching support, an older programme within the framework of so-called compensatory education. But what has happened to this day? What have you done? In practice, absolutely nothing. While we spent the middle of the school year, nothing in this respect has yet to start in schools in the country. Thus, thousands of students from the poor populaces who have an urgent need for support and assistance, because their parents find it difficult to cope with the unbearable costs of care - especially students who, in about three months, in May, will give full - time examinations - do not have the support they need. You have announced about a thousand teachers' positions on the NSRP support programme. Why don't you move on to these recruitments immediately? What's stopping you? Why are you stalling? Do you want us to get near Easter to start the reinforcement courses? What's the point then? Wouldn't it just be for the eyes of the world? So we ask you, and I close, Madam President, and we expect concrete answers - we expect them with interest - and commitments. What will you do, Minister, so that support for teaching and additional teaching support can finally begin, without further delay, fully and adequately financed by the state budget and even from next year, to start with the beginning of the school year and not as this year, late? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u102	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u103	Thank you. Colleague, we agree that neoliberal memoranda have turned education into a hard class adventure not only for the low-popular layers, but also for the middle layers. Education does not work as a social rise mechanism. And of course, we have to understand that it's not the elevator that stopped. It's the mechanism, not the door and the light that erased. In other words, we are in the middle of an unexpected development, which covers the entire period of the memorandum, a social downturn and a depreciation of public school, an attempt to degrade the public school. As left-wing government, programming and daily with our act, in very difficult budgetary conditions, we are obliged to respond and abolish these deep anti-social and anti-grassroot policies of recent years, to ensure the further credibility of public school, which implements the rule and the claim of equality for all children, regardless of social origin, colour, religion or any other discrimination. We therefore want to preserve public education as a supreme social asset and not become a trader. There is the Greek idiosyncrasy of parallel education, such as schools, a set of institutions of paradox, which unfortunately largely undermine the constitutional requirement of free public education. We are ready to re-submit this week the bill on aiding teaching. It was included in the parallel program. You are aware of the procedures that took place in December and we are obliged to present them now. We have ensured a thousand and twenty-three appropriations for recruitment from the Operational Programme "Human Resources, Education and Lifelong Learning 2014-2020" and regional directors and secondary school managers have taken the necessary steps so that there will soon be the recruitment of teachers using the single list of alternates. Supporting Teaching Program includes students and students of all classes in high school and PAAL, who fall short of the basic courses: Ancient, New, Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry. The aim of the project is to reduce the displacement of pupils and pupils in the learning process, improve their performance. In short, it is the completion of compulsory education. Therefore, with the function of aiding teaching, we take special care to have classes where high school failure and leakage rates are observed. The timetable of the Support Teaching Program for the First Class of High School is 10 hours, for the Second and III is 12 hours. The limited resources of the European programmes have forced us not to propose the Additional Teaching Support Programme, but the Supporting Teaching Programme. But we are also considering how the Additional Teaching Support Programme is to be integrated for the next school year - I agree with you - not late, but from the beginning. The promise we give is a political promise to the Greek Delegation - once again - that all schools for the first time in school will normally work in 2016 on 11 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u105	Thank you. Over and over and over again, reminding you that you also voted the third memorial together with the two two hundred and twenty-one MPs, over and over and over and over and over, the tea and sympathy to the demands and people's needs, what you said about the re-entrustment of the Legislation on Enhancing Teaching is nothing more than a renewal of old promises from the parallel programme, which we remind you that you have taken the bread and bread back some time ago. Minister, we have heard no commitment at all to when the Support Teaching Programme will be launched and we want a concrete date for this. We have heard no guarantee, of course, of what happens next year. It didn't happen this year. What guarantee do you give that what you're saying will be done in September 2016? I would remind you, however, that on January 25, you took out a circular, which you sent to the primary schools in the country, which essentially forbids supporting teaching in primary schools, considering as a serious misconduct and bad administrative practice what? To make any excess hours available for teachers in the strengthening teaching of young children in need. Why? In primary school, is there no children with learning difficulties to be supported? What's gonna happen? Will they be left to the mercy of their destiny? When will you take care of them with a Support Teaching Program? Remove the support teaching per school unit with the circular you sent, while it is educational and socially right to become per school unit, and limit it to so-called school-aiding centres, which will gather children from up to seven schools. It's not just that these centers keep cutting them down before they even start working. In Attica alone, one of the eighty originally planned will eventually work the seventy ones and see. It is not just that in most of these centres it will not work all the necessary sections that students need. The movement of children to and from these centers, did you think about her at all? How are you going to deal with her? With what transport? Or is this going to be left on the parents' back once again? And, you know, this problem is not just about the province. And here, in Attica, for example, children from Spata, Artemida, Rafina, Pickermi, Marathon, Makri are obliged to concentrate only on Artemis, because only there will such strengthening teaching centres work. Minister, it is certain that, with this tactic and your decisions, thousands of children are actually excluded. You are also continuing the disastrous tactics and policy of temporary work in education, a work relationship primarily anti-educational, of course, except for its other anti-territorial characteristics. Terrible and unbelievable are, Minister, the gaps of permanent teachers in schools. You cover them with thousands of temporary recruitments of teachers, who, apart from the work insecurity they are experiencing, are subjected to great delays in their payment. While you raised ten thousand appointments for 2016 and a few hundred thousand by 2018, there is not even a single euro for these appointments in this year's budget. Really, why are thousands of deputys paid by the NSRP and not by the state budget? What is the state budget? Prohibited fruit for our people and the only ones entitled to eat from them are lenders, bankers, industrialists and shipowners? And then you talk about the classmark of your policy. There is a class mark in your policy, except that it is in favour of capital rather than of the people. Before we close, we would like to tell you something more about the dialogue you have announced and continue for education. I don't know, this is new fruit, new tactics. You make suggestions and give instructions, you dictate to the education bodies what they will say, and you call this free and democratic dialogue. See the letter Mr. Gabroglou sent to the agencies and you'll understand what I mean. Minister, we want you to commit yourself now, today: When exactly will the aid programme be launched, which has been delayed for too long? He should have started already. When exactly will it start for both primary and high school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u106	You have the floor, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u107	I see you're widening your question's request. The question is about intensification teaching in high school. Now I see that you are suggesting that we commit ourselves to both primary and high school. I have explained to you earlier: in the case of primary schools there is no provision, but there is no credit for this year. So you are right in your question, not all of them, but only in high school. Secondly, it is true that there have been circulars concerning the excess hours. I do not know if you know exactly what the reality is. We will create with evidence a debate in this House, in order to understand how they are created, beyond the realities that exist - and we recognise it - and artificial gaps in education. Unfortunately these gaps are created by, one would say, an existing reality, which survives, survives customer relations in the field of education. I do not want to go any further, but I guarantee you that there will be a debate in this House on this matter, because this story of the gaps over excess hours, of the artificial gaps, that is, it is a story of budget-sharing, public resources that the Greek citizen pays. And I am sure that the JRC, like the other parties, will recognise that this phenomenon must be stopped. Thirdly, we did not feed and we do not have appointments. It is our political position and we are working, by system, to be appointed as many as possible this year, permanent appointments, as a whole, so that in three years' time there will be twenty thousand new permanent jobs. I repeat, we don't eat. We are working in the most specific, productive and clear way. To conclude, I would like to say that the dialogue is unpredictable, it is not preconceived. Questions do not constitute positions. Anyone who wants to ask questions. There is a broad consensus in the House's Committee on Morphic Affairs between all parties outside the JRC and the Golden Dawn. I mean nothing more, to be clear, don't go anywhere, but only these two parties have disagreed with the dialogue as should be done within the Committee on Education. It doesn't mean that all parties agree. We are talking about the dialogue process, about the dialogue agenda. From there on, every party - and you - from different ideological backgrounds can, in our opinion, contribute to the formation of common positions. Because education is one of those few things - one would say - social goods, which we must defend from disputes, useless and inappropriate. We can find common places. And, of course, one can have a perception of capitalism and the functioning of education in the context of capitalism, but what the Greek parent and student are asking for is to find solutions within this system, because unless we cannot find today. Slowly - slowly finding solutions, self-evident solutions, which unfortunately today the memorials, the barbarity of the memorials and neoliberalism have been undone for so many years. I repeat, we find self-evident solutions that are in line with the fundamental concept of school function, which is essential for social reproduction, and which of course has a definite classic, no objection. But education, as you know, is not fully defined by class synagogues. She has her own autonomy, too. She's got her self-defense. And this is what we have all been called upon to defend on the basis of our particular - I repeat - ideological and worthy principles. But we must give children the liberation of education. Because from the crisis we won't get out unless we make a basic investment. And this investment is in school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, too. The fourth question will be discussed under number 471/1-2-2016, first question by the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manniatis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the operation of the Department of Theatre Studies in Nafplio. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Athanasia Anagnostopoulou. Mr. Manatis, you have two minutes for your first speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. I take the floor from the presence of the Minister of Education, Mr. Friends here. I must comment that Mr. Friend just told us Mr. Tsipras barbaric. Because we all agree that the memorials are barbaric, but the Memorandum III of Mr Tsipras, which had no reason to sign, obviously came from the barbaric choices made by Mr Tsipras. The defendant can therefore draw its own conclusions. However, on this occasion, Minister, I would like to continue with the question that my colleague of the Communist Party of Greece has just put forward on support for teaching. I should like to mention in your knowledge another issue concerning a special group of children for which the Ministry of Education has not provided the necessary care. I am referring to the creation of a special professional high school in Argolida following the existing classes and students, who attend the Argolida Special Occupational Gymnasium, where we have full competence in executive capacity, full competence in equipment. While there is a request from the Parents and Gardens Association and from all the institutions of Argolida, for unexplained reasons the Ministry of Education does not agree to operate a special professional high school in Argolida, which - I think we all agree - is our obligation, the Greek state's obligation. Madam President, I now come to the text of my question. Undersecretary of State, Mr. Peglerinis, a few weeks ago, as he did not have to, opened an issue regarding the necessity of the Department of Theatre Studies in Nafplio. In fact, he said a preoccupation - to say this, to be diligent - that there are only two ICP members who teach, when there are already fifteen ICP members and a total of more than twenty-five teachers. I'm sure I'll get enough explanations from the Minister. At the moment we have a department of Theatrical Studies, which has the feature of proximity to the theatre of Epidaurus and the theatre of Argos, which operates in the city of Nafplio with the well-known civic, architectural and urban characteristics. We have a department that has made over four hundred forty graduates, a department in which today over three hundred fifty students are studying. Furthermore - and I close with it - it was assessed by a three-member external judges' committee in February 2014 and scored at an extremely positive level. The question is: does Mr Peglerinis, who called for the abolition of the Department of Theatrical Studies, express the Ministry's political will or said a word more and the rest of the Ministry's leadership restores him to order? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u110	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have three minutes for your first speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Maniotis, we're opening a big conversation. Of course, the debate has been opened with other topical questions here in Parliament and for TEI departments, etc. I would first like to say that my position, as I have expressed here in the House, is that it is difficult to open up a section of higher education and another so difficult it must be closed. I'm not going to comment on what Mr. Peglerin said, if he told it on television, because it was about a statement on television. The Ministry has not opened such a matter to close the Department of Theatre Studies. Let us talk a little bit about these parts of the HEIs. I would like to say - and I said this on Friday to a similar question - that the sloppyness, which characterized the creation of EEI departments, in this country is unprecedented. Many times - and before that, when we were in the Committee on Economic Affairs - you have accused us of incompetence, carelessness, and last but not least, the Rusphetti has been added. If anyone sees how the map of higher institutions has been created, he will understand what you mean. You know better than we do. I will read you an excerpt from the PPP evaluation in February 2014 for the Nafplio section: "The initial programming goals of the department were decided handy at the stage of its establishment, at government and academic level. The original design predicted that a university-level dance department would be created in Nafplio. The initial project was then amended and founded as a Department of Theatrical Studies, but because it was close geographically to the Theatrical Studies of Athens and Patras, it was decided to build Theatrical Studies according to the standards of Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. You understand from this alone how the departments were made. It is no coincidence that this section was built in 2003, on the eve of the Olympic Games, when we had a launch of the departments. Is this section fully in line with the requirements, so that there can be, if we have a substantive debate? For me a department of theatrical studies in Nafplio, I told you, and when you visited me in my office, and I mean it, next to Epidaurus, it is a department that has reason to exist, because it can have an intercultural function especially in this area. Did the department, however, all these years have made sure that it is in such a situation, that it has the building infrastructure, that it has the human resources, from 2003 to 2010? That's where we'll find problems. In other words, as the evaluation says - and that is why I call on it - I do not now remember what it is, I do not want to look for everything else, the building infrastructures suffer in Nafplion at the Department of Theatre Studies. And that's a matter. He is also suffering from academic staff from LAG members. Fortunately, the report mentions features, there is a member of the EIF - from what you had not appointed from 2008 until the day before yesterday, appointed by us people, who were elected and not recruited - who is the soul of the department. I mean, Mr. Maniattes, that's what I mean. It's hard to close sections, too hard. We with "ATHENA" saw one thing, enter and come out of the map, without any academic criterion. We are not that viewpoint. We don't think the Nafplio Division should get it out of the map, do we? On the contrary, they must be strengthened and we must find ways to strengthen them. But to say just one word, Madam President: while the evaluation here says that in order to make a postgraduate programme, the undergraduate must be strengthened, what I have seen is that there is a postgraduate and indeed a high tuition fee, about EUR 1,400, the student every six months. This is another big debate we need to have. That is, to build it, to strengthen the undergraduate, to strengthen the postgraduate, but you don't make a postgraduate in the air and even a tuition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Maniatis, here, you have the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u113	I am very grateful to the Minister for her reply. It reminded me of the "walk in two boats, but at the end I fall into the sea"! The Minister, on the one hand, told us that the Nafplio division must exist, that it must be strengthened, on the other hand politically and academicly, scientifically expressed doubts as to whether there should be sections like Nafplio. Minister, because I had the luck of participating in the tough decisions taken a few years ago to restructure higher education, and I was able by coincidence to see too many, all of the SYRIZA colleagues, denying not the closure of a university department but the closure of the last primary school, one of three students, I think that this criticism of our own party, which made decisions for the benefit of both elementary and middle and higher education, does not match. Others would be useful to address your comments. I am also pleased that you recognised that despite the fact that the state, while it should have given other infrastructure, has not done so, in respect of this the local society of Nafplio - and this is a characteristic that shows how local societies should operate with the universities - and Argolida has strongly supported the operation of this section. In addition, I must tell you that on the initiative of the local authorities, a plot has been purchased, which awaits funding, to build a campus. Here, then, are the questions raised as follows: Are we opening the issue of the redesign of the country's academic map, yes or no? If you want to open it, we in the dialogue are always open, but we will open it with totality, completeness and absolutely scientific criteria. If we do not open it and say words in the air about a section, which you too recognise fully fulfils all academic criteria, then something is behind it. Finally, I do not know what the government's position is about to comment on tuition fees for postgraduate programmes. If it is in the mood to fully support, with public funds, the tuition fees for postgraduate students at all the universities in the country, then that is welcome and we will support it, otherwise a solution must be found adapted to the Greek reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u114	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Maniotis, please don't put things in my mouth that I didn't say. And if I fall into the sea, we'll see then. I said right from the outset that it is difficult for the departments to close, as it is difficult to open. So there's no such thing as that. I said it unequivocally here, and when you came to my office. A Department of Theatrical Studies in Nafplio, next to Epidaurus, is very important to me and I don't get it back. But don't tell me now to set academic criteria. Really, did you set academic criteria for "ATHENA"? Because I had it as an opportunity question the other day, when you close a Forestry Department in Karditsa with an incredible real estate infrastructure that's been operating for thirty-two years, and you merge it with Carpenisi, is it random? I don't know what those academic criteria were. I didn't say there was no Karpenissi, but do you know where we've arrived now? We've reached the point where the mayors are fighting with each other, about who's gonna keep a department in his area. And there, of course, the customer relationships rise and you know it very well. I didn't criticize the station. As the evaluation you give a very basic one - and I know it from personal experience as a university teacher - academic staff, as long as they are, are very highly qualified and goes beyond self-response to enable it to function. And indeed, the municipality of Nafplio has given it to the department. What I said to what I insist is that the department opened in 2003. Your government wanted it. The next ones wanted it too. Shouldn't this section be granted aid? And we're waiting for the crisis to come and tell me whether it's gonna close or whether it's gonna be open? And you're telling me that he doesn't have it, doesn't he? Of course, he should have these.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u116	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u117	Let me finish and you can tell if the President allows. What I am saying, then, to avoid creating impressions, is that there is nothing behind our minds for this particular section. We are starting to see the paranoia of the system on the country's academic map - insanity completely! - and the creation and merger. However, parts, like Nafplio, have the guarantees and the area can raise such parts. That's what I have to say. Postgraduate is another story. My position is that there is expressly public and free education in Article 16. Let's talk about everything we bring, but we'll start with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u118	Will you apply Article 16?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u119	Don't interrupt her, you're not allowed. Colleagues, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from 8 February 2016 to 9 February 2016. MEP Mr. Ioannis Pakisotakis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from February 12, 2016 until February 15, 2016, for personal reasons. Also, MP Mr Vassilias Kikilis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad in Brussels from Tuesday, 9 February 2016 to Thursday, 11 February 2016. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u120	The House approved the requested permits. These are three questions addressed to the same Minister, Mr Katrugalo. The fifth question will be discussed under number 488/2/2016, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the closure of the "SOFTEX" plant in Botanic. Mr Katsotis' timely question will answer, as I have already said, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Katsugalos. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it is well known that there have been several discussions at the Ministry on the 'Softex' operation, which is part of the multinational 'BOLTON', and which has decided to close after too many years of operation. What's he invoking? Cumulative damage due to the fire last July at one of the plant units. The employer states that due to this damage and the negative results, the operation of the company is inconsistent. One hundred and thirty workers are driven to unemployment. This development, Minister, confirms the warnings of workers, that the fire was only the pretext for launching the multinational decisions already taken. The refusal of the company to repair the plant proves that it was intended to close the plant. For the fire disasters, the company has been compensated by insurance companies. He took 9 million euros as compensation. Rehabilitation of the damage, according to the employees, is not close to 6 million. At the tripartite meeting at the Ministry of Labour, the employers' representatives have insisted on the decision on the closure of the plant, they have announced collective redundancies - if you allow it - and beyond that, of course, they also use 5%. It is well known that they have already called on the workers to pay compensation and more than they are entitled to, in the framework of voluntary retirements. We ask, Minister, what are you going to do in order to ensure that jobs are not lost, that workers' rights are guaranteed and, above all, that the factory which has been operating for many years is not closed? It has machinery and modern infrastructure and no such decision is justified, which is perhaps being made in the context of pressure for funding, perhaps for something else that the government wants. You, I imagine, have discussed with the employer, and you know much more than the workers and us know, and we would like today to tell us what you will do to ensure that their workers and their rights are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u122	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u123	Mr Colleague, as you know, we have tried to do anything within the Ministry's competence from the first time, to avoid the closure of the business and not to lose jobs. With absolute transparency and not in secret - we did not have to make secret negotiations with the company - we called, as you know, the company at the Ministry, in the context of multiple tripartite meetings. We have exhausted every margin of pressure that a Ministry of Labour can have in a capitalist country. As you can see, this is another episode, another link in the deindustrialisation chain, in which the failed austerity policies of the previous years have led the country. Although we tried to force the decision on the closure of the company to be withdrawn, the company's representatives told us that this was a sincere decision by the shareholders. We are still pressing in this direction, in whatever means we have, because we have said, through the Secretary-General of the Ministry responsible for the trialogue effort, that it is not for us to accept any such decision that closes a production unit in the country which seems to have prospects of operation, as you rightly said, and thus leads to unemployment and dozens of workers. And we'll keep pushing. On the part of your question about what we can do to safeguard workers' rights, we have made it clear that collective redundancies will not be accepted and that legality will be safeguarded. From that point on, as I have often answered questions from fellow Members of your party, and I said it implied and, at the outset, in a capitalist state there are limits to what the Ministry of Labour can do. These limits will be reached by the end of the day, but they are finite.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u124	Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the workers are convinced that the operation will be reopened after it is relieved of these workers who have rights, who are organised, who have their club and who claim. They want to make use of all the legislative framework that the governments have adopted so far, which you maintain, so that they can have a very cheap workforce. They want to use these laws that you bring and you will bring, for workers, insurance and others that are prerequisites for the third memorandum, so that they can have very little costs to ensure their competitiveness and profitability. That is what the workers, who are struggling, are at the factory, do not abandon it and claim to continue operating with all rights. Minister, there has been a lot of talk in the past time about who closes the plants. In particular, there was a great attack on workers' struggles and it was said that these struggles were closing factories, businesses. It is not too often that sectors that are mobilised have been accused of the closure of the factories. It turns out, then, that the factories themselves are being closed by capitalists or opened by capitalists themselves whenever they want, they decide whether to produce or whether to stop production. And we have such a function which is unlike the interests of the workers, and it is unlike the safety of the workers, and it is contrary to their own lives. This whole framework, Minister, is maintained. You say that we're in capitalism, that this is the function, that you can do, nothing more. Therefore, these questions are good to be asked here, so that it can also be heard from your mouth that this system cannot be faced with any need for workers. It's getting worse and worse with their lives. This dictatorship of monopolies will dominate and they will decide on the chaos of our people. So they have to get rid of them. That is a truth that needs to be said. They must all listen to her. This system has nothing to give but unemployment, poverty and impoverishment, and the workers of SOFTEX in this line of challenge should continue their fight against capital, the European Union and those parties who serve this rotten system. And you are one of these parties you are serving, Minister, with the legislative framework that you are continuing and maintaining, but you are also strengthening through the laws that you are bringing, such as working, insurance and best practices - you are supposed to bring in the next period. These are the ones that enhance the competitiveness, profitability of monopolistic groups, which remove workers' rights and make them cheaper. So let it be understood that workers must fight more and more in such a line in the next few years, in massive terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u126	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u127	Mr Colleague, I'll tell you where we agree and where we disagree. We agree that it is not the struggles of workers who close factories. It is the policies of austerity that have been implemented in recent years, the policies of deindustrialisation, the policies of distance from what we call a European social model. But until capitalism is overturned and socialism comes - I am strategically with you - they are not doomed to be chaos. They are not condemned to live in an austerity regime, nor are they convicted of being constantly living in a regime that has deprived them of their basic collective labour rights. In this working jungle we were condemned by the agreement of the previous governments with the neoliberal recipes of the then memoranda. We explicitly included, even in this generally neoliberal memorandum, the provision for the reintroduction of collective bargaining, precisely because we know that it is a gravel to the rights of workers not to collectively claim their rights. It is precisely in this context that both Greece and Europe, in this great conflict between neoliberalism and social Europe, we consider that we represent the forces of work and we will continue to fight together with the workers. Not only in this continental conflict, for the future that the welfare state will take there, but also in local issues. We will be with the employees of SOFTEX. And if this political decision by the shareholders really is a trick to not really shut down the company, but to change the garments just to circumvent the workers' rights, we will get rid of all the rigour that allows us in the existing legislative arsenal. Because I said that the weapons that the Ministry of Labour has in a capitalist state are limited, but they are not inexistent, and we intend to make the most of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u128	Thank you. We will now discuss the second question with number 485/2-2-2016 on the second question of the New Democracy MP, Ioannis Brutsi, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the termination of the publication of the information of the ‘LIOS’ system. Mr. Brutsis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u129	Minister, you are not being favoured by your presence here today for three reasons. The first reason is that today the Stock Exchange collapsed. It's a history of four years. As you know, the Stock Exchange is downgrading the economy in the future. And that confirms the second factor. Mr Tsakalotos today, shortly before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, has disproved you from saying that everything - that is, the debate with the troika or the institutions, as you say - is in the air. Even the insurance is in the air, as nothing has been agreed at all. He also said that if the evaluation was not carried out by May, we were burned. That actually disguises you. There's a third element that's more serious. At the time you are faced with the social outcry and anger of your own deadlocks created by the economy and insurance and you challenge and divide Greek society, it comes today, on the eve of the great mobilisation of farmers, your Secretary-General Nefeloudis and essentially with a ironic written statement to the farmers - whom he is like a revolutionary army - says the tractors are "tanks". I would therefore ask you, Minister, if you share this view. We are basically asking for Mr Nefeloude to resign because he is pouring oil into the fire at a time when society is boiling. If you do not "do it" and dismiss it because of this statement, it means that you are identified with these perceptions. As far as the ELIOS system is concerned, I would like to tell you that when I went to the Ministry, I did something that you avoid at work. There was systematic work and work to stop a great pathetic past, monkey pensions and bring transparency to Greece for the first time after decades. And I did it. On June 1, 2013, we built the 'LIO', the most modern innovative system, perhaps at European level. Since June 1st 2013, all Greeks have been able to see the pension details very thoroughly. They had this in front of them and had the opportunity to see it. Guys at the universities, Madam President, they're postgraduating our country's insurance system. The evidence is now in the hands of journalists, party parties of the House. This system, the 'HLIOS' system for which, in my dentistry, I will say how many hundreds of millions of people have saved for the Greek state, by itself, through housekeeping, stopped it from August 2015 unnecessarily and indeed in my question to you here in Parliament 'why did you do it?' You said it was a monkey. I asked you, and I ask you today, to say where the evidence is, what action you have taken if you have done the SADs for the officials who have done the evidence, and why in the first six months of the SYRIZA Government the information was taken without stopping. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I am waiting for your answer, and I want it to be true and honest, because in fact, Minister, you have brought the disaster back to the Ministry of Labour. No one today, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, once again knows something that we have achieved as a whole as a Greek political system, namely how many pensioners in Greece are, how many pensions are in Greece. And that's what SYRIZA's government did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, as you have heard, you have two topical questions: for Mr Nefeloud and the one which is registered, for the HELIOS system. Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u131	And tidal and virgin, Mr. Comrade! While your resignation inherited chaos in the insurance, 4 billion deficit, devastated in the OGA - a percentage greater deficit than IKA - and presents today an honorer. Forty years we have come to build and instead of making your self-criticism, as the Chief of the New Democracy has tried to do, of course, by indirectly referring to Mr. Yannitsis's book, so that he does not take away the political responsibilities associated with your party, you appear today as guardians. Farmers are on the streets for the five years of blackness of your own policies. Our proposals in this area are simply trying to make up for the great catastrophe you have done in recent years. As far as the Minister of Finance's statements are concerned, because I have followed them, as you will know, regardless of what you have said, they have confirmed that our proposals for the reform of insurance are not just in the direction that benefits society, because they are based on the principles of equality and social justice, that is to say, that those who have something more to give than those who have nothing, not just those who have nothing to do with the interests of society, but clearly stated that the general architecture of the system has also been accepted by the institutions. I will return, if you wish, to the general issues of insurance, which is an area that you should avoid, because your responsibilities are severe over time, not only your own party, but the bilateralism that has reached the country at that level, without reserves, with a system distorted from the outset, which does not guarantee social protection equal to everyone. I am absolutely indifferent to that. For "HLIOS" in the preliminary - since you have also reserved yourself to expose the details of your dentistry and I will refer in detail there - to tell you that I did not speak about "miamia", I spoke about falsified image, falsified elements of "HLIOS". I am referring to the total lack of methodology in the report, the fact that, contrary to other reports on the pension system - and I will present the report of the British statistical authority - your data do not have reference to pensions after reservations and taxes, thus showing them much larger than it is, which has often been negotiated with the institutions. They were therefore weakening our particular negotiating position. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] After all, like your predecessor in the Memorandum, you, Mr Loverdos, have made much more important progress in the elimination of transparency, in abolishing the full presentation of the social budget, which was the basic tool that could give the full X-ray of the insurance funds, the funds available for them, the transfers from the state budget. So I am waiting for your dentistry to say what you were doing with "ELIOS", so that I too can answer you more thoroughly afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Brutsis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u133	Madam President, with great regret the Minister has been called here today to respond to a critical size, to what is transparent, Minister, which is probably an unknown word for your own vocabulary. I would remind you - and I will say again - that the ELIOS was built at zero costs of the Greek State. I made it with the employees of the Ministry of Labour and it is the greatest historical achievement in the Ministry of Labour. And you go out today and you dare talk about falsified evidence and compare with that of the left-wing vinophisophy about English systems when this system did not question it for two and a half years when I was Minister? The scientific community did not question it, your party did not question it, it was not questioned by the MPs, it was not questioned by the journalists, because it is a source of wealth and transparency. And for this system, for the Greek people to know - because I have to make an account today, to defend transparency and not the darkening of the Left that you brought to the Ministry - I will tell you some important figures: EUR 300 million annually, this issue was given by the "milikey" pensions that it cut. This issue gave 120 million euros a year from the tax evasion of pensioners, when no pensioner went to the trouble of going to his funds to obtain the certificate and automatically entering the tax declaration. He did it himself. This system has given 280 million euros a year from the IKA cross-checks with banks, which have never been done so far. And this system also gave you 120 million euros, which you did not get from electronic cross-checks to return VAT, the payroll tax, the Minister of Finance, the income tax and the farmers you are questioning, which is the definition of justice. More than 850 million euros is the system that I have presented today, which was done with zero money from the Greek government and you have cut it. This is the 'transparency' of the Left. Rejoice her! But that's why you're accountable for killing because you're back at a time of the past. But, Madam President, the Minister did not answer Mr Nefeloude's question. We ask for the resignation of Mr. Nefeludis. He threw oil into the fire. Your cover also means accepting the written text - it was not an oral statement, it was a written statement - which said that tractors are tanks, being sanitary to farmers and, in fact, throwing oil into the fire, staying a great social turbulence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u134	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u135	Mr Colleague, I told you before that the 'HIOS' has no methodological effect or prescribes from the outset, as other reports such as the one in Great Britain, which is based on data analysis. I'm going to give you an example to show you the irrationality of the evidence you're collecting. In the distribution of pensions by age, then, one finds that two hundred and one thousand pensioners are under fifty years of age. So, as is centralized, the figures presented by this system, without methodology, are impressed by this figure. If he looks at it more carefully, he will see that the last report published shows with emphasis that only 1% are retired, less than twenty-five years old. And one begins to think about what these pensioners are under the age of twenty-five years. And then what does anyone find out? That, as early pensions, you show not only old-age pensions, but also invalidity pensions and pensions from accidents at work and survivors' pensions. These children are orphans, who are retired under the age of twenty-five. So, what point did you get me? When I negotiate with the institutions, they say to me: 'You have two hundred thousand early pensions' and I say to them: 'But not there are death pensions, there are the occupational accidents' pensions. And I am told by the institutions: 'But it is not possible! No European country has such statistics!'. And I must tell them that yours, Greece, had such statistics, which in fact undermine the country's negotiating situation. Why do you realize, Mr Colleague, that this is a completely different thing, the widow's pensions, the occupational accident pensions, the death pensions. No one's got a contract with the once-in-a-lifetime accident. And the rendezvous with Haro is not closed from this side of the sky. So the data you displayed in "HLIOS" give a completely falsified picture of reality. They undermined the position of Greece, not the government, in the relevant negotiations. Instead of exercising the reasonable self-criticism that every Minister of Labour should do, you're actually fighting. I also owe you an answer for the farmers. I said before - and I have repeated many times - that the vast majority of farmers are on the streets, precisely because they do not have five years of blackmailing the memorial policies and are fighting for what will happen next. However, it seems from the latest incidents against SYRIZA MPs, from those who refuse dialogue and say that the tractors will come to the Constitution, that some, a few of the farmers do not have their minds. They've got artificial acidification in their minds. So we need to tell the farmers and their justified concerns, with whom we want to know? Dialogue to open. A constant request from all the farmers, who were on the block every year, was to see the Prime Minister and talk to him. We have also made this call for dialogue from the very beginning. We're waiting for them to talk. We don't expect them, as some people are threatening to understand the Truck Constitution. That is why we distinguish between the real problems, which we want to solve. We consider them to be hopeful of the place, because primary production should not reach the point where you have reached it, that is to say it constantly declines. It should be developed because it is linked to the future of Greece. That is why we are open to dialogue with society.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u136	Why do you remove the OGA fund?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Brutsi, you know there can be no tritology and questions in this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u138	You, too, welcome the stay of agricultural mobilisation and say that it is left with one fund. You're making a big mistake. You're causing national damage to what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Brutsi, there can be no dialogue. We will now conclude with the third question to the same Minister. It is the third with number 489/2/2016 timely second question of the MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of workers in the company "ContiTech IMAS SA" in the first industrial area (BIP) Volos. The same Minister, Mr. Katrugalos, will answer again. Mr. Steeriou, you have the floor for two minutes for your first speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, IMAS is a subsidiary of the ContiTech group, a German multinational company operating in Volos since 1974 in the first industrial region. It was two hundred employees. Today there are a hundred and fifty workers left. The operational contract between the employees and the company expired on 31 December 2015. The company proposes a new business contract with the employees' association, which provides for a reduction in earnings from 20% to 30% and seventy-two days a year for rotating work. The company's proposal for the new operational contract provides cynically and suggests that the union should pay the workers for the new business to be 50% higher than the national general collective labour agreement. In other words, Minister, five hundred and eighty-six euros plus two hundred ninety-three euros, a total of eighty-seven-nine euros, wages, crumbs, that is to say, workers working in a heavy and unhealthy job and in an environment, which is difficult for every worker. Also, in its proposal for reorganisation, as it says, in order to adapt to the new conditions of competition, the company plans to hire new workers, new entrants, paid for by the national general collective labour agreement, by applying the low wage policy. The company sent a ultimatum to the club, calling on the workers to accept their proposal or to proceed with sixty redundancies, making them physically voluntary. The union has responded negatively. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will need you to give me one more minute if you have goodness. Thank you very much. The company, while claiming to reduce labour costs by EUR 2.7 million per year, costs EUR 5 million, as well as the sixty redundancies - voluntary departures made by the company - are equivalent to 3 million job savings per year. So the company has already caught the labour costs it wants to reduce. It is obvious, Minister, that this is what we want to say - that the real aim of the company is to reduce the remuneration of workers and their working rights arising from this operational contract, which they have. I would also like to inform you and argue about this, that the company and in 2014 made 30 redundancies, making these voluntary departures, but which it replaced with cheap low-cost contractors. Of course, we did a tripartite job at your ministry. You were present and you know the problem briefly, because you weren't throughout the tripartite. So we ask, Minister: what measures will you take to stop the continuing blackmailing of this company towards workers? What measures will you take to ensure that workers' rights and jobs are guaranteed in the company, so as not to reduce their wages, so as not to apply the unacceptable alternative labour rotation scheme? What measures will you take to withdraw the four redundancies that the company proceeded with on 25 January and not to carry out the other ten proclaimed redundancies that it announced to the club on 25 January? Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u141	The Minister has the floor. Please be all in your time. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to be sooner or later. Mr Meikopoulos, as you know, I have responded to your invitation and to the invitation of Mr SYRIZA's colleague, Mr Meikopoulos, to attend the tripartite attempt to reconcile the Ministry of Labour - although it has coincided with the peak of the discussions on insurance - precisely because I share your view that it is a very serious issue in itself in this particular business and because it concerns a general storm of deindustrialisation in your region, the Volos region, an industrial city that tends to lose substantially most of its industries. As you know, the workers have asked the OMD mediation services and my own - in the time I was present at this tripartite - was to press the employer's side to withdraw the redundancies announced until we have the proposal of the mediator, which - precisely because he would have more time - could have been accepted on both sides. Unfortunately, despite the pressure I have exerted, the employer side did not accept this proposal. I shall therefore return to what I said earlier about the limits that a Minister for Labour can exercise in a capitalist state. It is not without weight the efforts that can be made by him, but have limits. I'm still at the club's disposal and yours, if you think these limits can be crossed and I can do more than what I've done. As far as I am concerned, however, I have no competences that could go further at this stage of negotiation than I have done. I repeat, as I have said many times: I simply do not respect your party's struggles historically, I also respect today's struggles on the labour side, and I have told you many times that the Ministry of Labour is an ally of these efforts. We're with the world of work. In the context of our responsibilities, in everything we can help those associations that are trying to retreat their interests, we will do so, but I say again in the context of our powers and legal weapons.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Steeriou, you have the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Madam President. I will start from the last, Minister, which you said you were on the side of the work forces, if I wrote it well, and I want to tell you really, honestly and I am not just saying it, they call it millions of workers in our country, if you and your government really are with the forces of work, as you say, you have nothing but to prove it in practice. How? I'll tell you five things that are the least. You have the legislative responsibility for this, do away with the disgraceful legislation on rotating work. Remove collective agreements. Remove the associations of persons who are exploited by employers to sign low employment contracts. Remove the unacceptable employment status of "jungle" workers in contractors, as well as those with blocks in each company. Reiterate, in fact, the vindication of the obligability of sectoral employment contracts. Repeat the national general collective agreement to EUR 751, based on an increase in this amount and pensions that you have cut your wages. But you do not, Minister, neither do you nor your government. The words are fine, but the words are not eaten by the workers who currently have 300 and 400 euros a month. And you do not do this because your Government is fully coordinated with the policy of restoring capitalist competitiveness and profitability, which, in order to achieve a condition and condition, is not only the maintenance of the above mentioned, but also other measures at the expense of the workers that you are taking all the time and you will get more. So this competitiveness, Minister, is invoking the multinational ContiTech IMAS and in its document, and it takes exactly these measures which you, your government, and the previous governments, have given them a wealthy amount of money. So you are serving, Minister, and you have said and admit it yourself, to say this to workers - the capitalist economy, the European Union, which alone creates such suffering as the workers of Volos, IMANTA and other industries today, but also the workers of our country as a whole. So you give, Minister, land and water to industrialists and business groups for their profitability, which means that what you give richly for workers means poverty, impoverishment and a number of other problems facing their daily lives, health, education and others. That is why, Minister, it seems clear - the workers and our people as a whole from politics, which you too are serving and implementing - and do not say that we have found the legacy from the previous ones - have no benefit but a waste. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. This policy you are evangelizing - you mentioned it before as a capitalist economy - is the only goal of profit and comes to a full but complete contrast with the needs of the workers. That is why we say that the IMANDA workers too, with their struggle to prevent this employer from attacking their immediate problems, must also aim at the heart of creating their problems, which is the capitalist way of organising the economy. In other words, workers must break down this way of organising the economy and build up an economy that operates, produces and creates with its sole aim and aim to satisfy the constantly expanded needs of the workers. I want to answer, Minister, a half a minute for the OMD. Madam President, I'm sorry. OMD, Minister - we know very well - is moving under the law and legislation that you have adopted. We believe, in other words, that the OPCW operates to the benefit of the competitiveness of the economy. It will take into account the general sphere, what the economy is today, and it will favour - we say - the company, the business group in the name of competitiveness and profitability. That's the OMD and we know it very well. I think you know that too. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u145	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u146	Collective labour agreements, guarantees of individual and collective labour law are guarantees within the civil state and the capitalist economy. However, they have been conquered by workers' struggles. These institutions must therefore be defended. Let's take the example of the OMD to understand exactly what I'm saying. As you recall, Law 18761990, which introduced the OMED, was also passed by the Members of the Communist Party of Greece, who were then in the single coalition.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u147	But it's changed. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u148	That's right. My argument is exactly that. Don't interrupt me. I never make strutters. When it was voted, then, it was just a step that enabled the weak unions, especially those who were not easy to impose on their workers' rights, to have an extra field of claim. You are right to say that later, during the memorial period, the ability of the mediator and the referee of the OMD to play this role, which the Communist Party of Greece had backed him up in its original form. Right here is my argument. In the context of capitalism we may have different forms of protection of workers' rights. It is not the same thing to be a worker in the Third Reich and a worker at the "New Deal" of Roosevelt. That is why I think you were wrong in voting against the revised European Social Charter, which is exactly one of those possibilities that the civil status gives workers to claim their rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u149	What are you talking about? Best practices.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u150	The revised European Social Charter, for example, provides that all redundancies must be justified and there cannot be unnecessarily dismissals.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u151	What if it is? There may be a thousand reasons, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u152	Mr Katsotis, you have also entered the debate now, in violation of every concept of the Rules of Procedure. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u153	So all this arsenal, which has been at their disposal for decades, such as collective labour agreements, mediation, unilateral recourse to arbitration, all of this is intended to restore them. The International Labour Organisation is helping us in this process in the context of the negotiation. In fact, we have committed this in the framework of the July mandatory compromise not to do so unilaterally, to do so in the context of negotiation with the institutions. However, it is our commitment that collective bargaining will also come back and the bindingity of collective labour agreements will be restored and the role of the IMPs will be restored where it was in 1990, for the simple reason that all this is in line with the European social model, while on the contrary the memoranda were Greece's departure ticket from what constitutes the European common average, workers have rights, rights recognised by the guarantees of individual and collective labour law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Minister. The first, with number 490/2/2016, a top-circuit question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Triantafyllos Mitafidis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the abolition of Subsection F1) of Article 1 of Law No. 4254/07-04-2014 entitled "Structuring barriers to competition in retail trade - book-sharing arrangements", which the Minister of Economy would answer Mr Statakis, will not discuss why the Minister is in Tehran. The fourth under No 449/25-1-2016 topical question by the Deputy Minister of Attica of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kashiri to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the "Greek Government's position on the question" by Turkey of our country's dominance on the rocky Imias islands, will not be answered due to the absence of the Minister abroad. The fifth under number 408/18-1-2016 topical question of the second question of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the progress of the projects for the exploitation of the former airport of Greece, will not be answered due to a workload of Mr. Tsakalotos. The seventh question, with number 429/19-1-2016, is a timely question for the President of Athens, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the resolution of the problem of the “SAPIS” Group and the determination of the time schedule for the payment of the allowances of the insured persons, will not be answered due to a workload and a hindrance of Mr. Tsakalotou. We enter the debate of the eighth under number 444/25-1-2016 topical question of the second Athens MP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, with regard to the changes in the administration of the General Secretariat of Public Revenues of the Ministry of Finance. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Tree Alexiadis. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for two minutes for your first speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President, and the Deputy Minister, who is here to answer today. Last October the Government sent the Secretary-General of Public Revenue, Mrs Savvaidou, and we saw in this process that the hypocrisy of the political system is exhausted. The New Democracy had passed a law providing for the dismissal of civil servants who were accused of criminal offences and called for the stay of Mrs Savvaidou in her post. SYRIZA had abolished this law against his essence and his logic. However, she has asked for Mrs Savvaidou's resignation has just been accused, without proving any of these accusations. And he had abolished, again, this law at the same time as he covered his ministers on the issues of "possibly" that were publicized. Following Mrs Savvaidou's dismissal, by decision of the Ministerial Council, from the General Secretariat of Public Revenue in mid-October, she spent more than a quarter with the General Secretariat of Public Revenue completely headless. At this time, the government has delayed the choice at first, but mainly in the announcement of the new leadership of the Secretariat, with rumours, in fact, talking about a dimension of opinions between the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister. While, at the end of December, the name of the new Secretary-General was sounded and the Minister of Finance had made a recommendation to the Ministerial Council, his announcement and the taking-up of duties was almost another month late. In this period, the General Secretariat proceeded with the procedures for replacing the Directors-General and in addition, by decision of 18-1-2016, they exempted from the normal selection procedure the Head of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue a series of services, a procedure that had been defined since 2014. In particular, the decision excludes all services directly covered by the Secretary-General, the special decentralised services of the Directorate-General for Tax Administration, the Special Public Economic Services, the organic units of the Directorate-General for Electronic Governance and Human Resources. Thus, while the new Secretary-General, whose name was, of course, at the press offices, was still pending, the Ministry's leadership actually made a major change in the administration of the General Secretariat, since the criteria for these positions had already been announced. In view of the above, is the Minister responsible for Finance asked: Is he aware of what is going on in GATT? What action does it intend to take to restore its smooth operation? How have these actions of the Ministry of Finance affected the course of discussions with institutions and evaluation? Due to what emergency it is excluded from the normal selection procedure for heads of service, which I mentioned earlier? How is the independence of the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue and the new Head, Mr Pittsili, ensured by these actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u156	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u157	Madam President, Mr Theoharis, in respect of the parliamentary procedure I am trying to be consistent with the answers to the current questions in Parliament. Last week, on February 1st, I couldn't be here not because of a nominal holiday, but because I was in the Hilton negotiation. I could not be consistent and so with my written document to the President of the Parliament and to you, Your Honourable Member, I have informed of my absence. However, I think that parliamentary order and procedure should not only be observed by the ministers, because I have heard you analyse your question with too many elements which do not exist in your question. I have heard, for example, that we "reported" as the government of Mrs Savvaidou, while it has been clearly explained, the reason we have made these moves necessarily, following the actions of Greek Justice. I have heard about the difference of views of the Minister and Deputy for the new Secretary-General of Public Revenue, when it is clear and it has been made public that, following the proposal of the Committee, the three names came to the Deputy Minister and the Deputy Minister made his proposal to the Minister of Finance. It is clear - if you want - that you discover new myths and new dragons in the tale, but not many anymore are afraid of this fairy tale. So as far as the substance of your question is concerned, first of all, Mr Theochari, we have two different things to say. One is the choices of directors and the other is the choices of directors. I imagine you think that everything in the Ministry of Finance was transparent, meritful, functioned perfectly, there were no corridors, there were no cartons, there were no entrepreneurs, politicians, others who intervened in who would become director in this agency, who would take over this case, who would become Director-General, there was not all this behind the scene. You consider that there was not what justified the Greek Parliament's vote of No.4336, two hundred and twenty-one MPs, namely that a historical political intervention has been recorded in the Ministry of Finance. You think that wasn't all at the Treasury and that everything started to turn since SYRIZA became a government. So, as far as the Director-General is concerned, there is nothing to change in the procedure with which the crises took place in the previous period, that is, what was the case with the decisions of the predecessor of Mr Pitsilis, Mrs Savvaidou, in relation to the directors-general, this also applies now. And take note: We observe what the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue has defined, despite the fact that the directors-general we now have in the Ministry of Finance have not been chosen in this way. As far as the directors are concerned, by a decision signed by the Deputy Secretary-General of Public Income Mr Bakas (who has been sufficiently successful in this whole period) the directors-general are not selected by the Government - we do not do what has been done in the past - but are chosen by the new Secretary-General. The only difference is that there is no Council, which was consultative. Otherwise, let me remind you of something that the House has probably not learned in the past, we had cases where the council - for which you are so concerned - had reached a order of priority, but the Independent General Secretariat for Public Revenue did not take the first successful one, but chose another candidate on the list. What I would like to say clearly is that the era of party, political and other interventions in the Ministry of Finance is over. Let's go to merital judgments of directors and directors, which will take place under the responsibility of the new Secretary-General of Public Revenue, without any intervention by the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u158	Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Madam President. I am pleased with the unequivocal statement by the Deputy Minister that there will indeed be no party interventions. He knows, because he has history in the Ministry of Finance - he has been working for decades - that during my term of office at least there were no party interventions or, in any case, there was a guilder, and I never accepted any such party intervention from wherever it came. Whether it was really a party, whether it was a trade union or any other intervention I have always respected the criteria that I wanted. You said yourself that this board was consultative. So it doesn't seem strange to me that the Secretary-General does not always choose the first introduction. In any case, because I was also discussing with experts, during the adoption of this procedure, it would be advisable to have an advisory board that judges and reduces the list of candidates. Anyone who finally chooses whether the Secretary-General is, or is, finally, subordinate to the General Secretariat, in order for directors, divisions or other positions, such as regional directors, should be able to manipulate public administration and make all these choices on its own - and not even at the level of the Secretary-General. But you did not answer to understand why a month has passed since the decision on the new Secretary-General was signed by the Minister of Finance until he was given FEC. There is no sense, no sense, when we see laws taking FEK in one day, ministerial decisions, to enable them quickly, to get too quickly FEK and not to take FEK quickly, and it is very important that we should not leave it head-on for the sake of revenue, but also for the sake of negotiation. For it is clear that the better the revenues are going you have a greater degree of freedom to negotiate to reduce the burden on the Greek people. So you are in a government in which the Advisory Council, which judged the hospital managers, said in thirty-six cases about a hundred or fifty to stay, and the Minister responsible has kicked out the twenty. The government has not given samples of writing that make us think that it really seeks to stop the party domination, much more with the data of friends, relatives and disciples, who every day find the way of publicity, about how they are recruited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u160	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u161	Of course, Madam President, although it would take a lot more minutes to say what has happened to the Ministry of Finance this year. MEP, of the thousands of two hundred forty-seven positions of heads, directors-general, directors, deputy directors, directors of departments, one year of government SYRIZA - ANEL (unfortunately in my personal opinion) have not changed even ten. And they should change for too many reasons. There should be merit, there should be evaluation, there should be criteria for that, and for one reason above: You have forgotten or failed in your question to say that all these positions of directors and directors are positions which have expired and, as the law stipulates, there should be an assessment, which should not be done and a decision of the General Secretariat which should be reinstated. There was nothing like that. So what has been done by the Deputy Secretary-General in his decision is to initiate the procedure - not to choose with political, party or trade union criteria from anyone - so that the new Secretary-General - and it is very right that the decision - should have before the 'white landscape', so that he can choose the best cases among the candidates. And I would like to remind you that the Director-General has followed exactly the procedure that existed, which has certainly not been followed in the last judgments of directors-general, namely that the positions are being made, applied, there is a council of two Secretary-Generals and two academics, collecting applications, evaluating, proposing and moving forward. In the positions of directors - not of all services, of certain basic services - what is envisaged in the procedure is, positions are given, applications are submitted and the new GDR may decide to add an advisory board, written examinations, interviews, whatever it wants to make the process more remarkable. What we want to say clearly and to assure the Greek citizens is that the long tradition of political, economic, trade union or other interventions in the field of tax administration does not apply to us. Because we do not want tax administration a tool in any party or other purpose. We want tax administration to have a unique objective, tax justice, the fight against tax evasion and smuggling. We want to see partners - not partners - all the political forces that believe in fairer taxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Minister. The first question under number 745/38/2-11-2015, and application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the stay of Mr Kim Glen, as Prime Minister, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-02-08-S1-commons.u163	With the consent of the House at 19.52 the sitting on Thursday, 11 February 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
