ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u2	I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday, 4 March 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Larissa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Anna Vageias to the Minister of Culture and Sports, concerning the termination of the operation of the PPC of the Aegean Sea and the restoration of cultural activity in a sensitive region of Greece. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The No. 594/29-2-2016 topical question by Deputy Serres of New Democracy Mrs. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Health on the draft merger - abolishing of primary care units. 3. The timely question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction about the 'creating of tension and the methods of the Turkish consulate in Thrace'. 4. The Question No 602/1-32016 by F Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of National Defence, on the abundance of refugees - non-legitimate immigrants in Kastelorizo. 5. The Question No 608/1-32016 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning compensation for officials involved in the organisation, support and conducting the tests of qualifications and behaviour of candidates. 6. Athanasios Papachristopoulos (Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity) asked Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos about the delays in the IKA pensions. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The current question by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the rental of forest fire-fighting helicopters. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on redundancies in the Greek Defence Systems (ESA). 3. The question asked by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Dellis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the dismissal of the trade unionist, working on the chain of shops - business coffee, "MIKEL COFFEE COMPANY" in Drama. 4. The Question No 604/1-32016 by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance concerning the extension of the car withdrawal measure. 5. The Question No 601/1-32016 by the Independent Member of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, on the publication of the magazine "Enjoy" on the issue of the participation of Papastavrou at the Board of Directors of the legal company "MG Capital Advisors S.A." by Marveve Grabovski - Mitsotakis. 6. The No. 576/23-2-2016 topical question by MP Corfu of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Fotinis Vakis to the Minister of Health on the submissiveness of the General Hospital of Corfu. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The No 565/22-2-2016 topical question of the New Democracy MP Konstantinos Karagunis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the continued operation of the university departments in Agrinio. 8. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGOU to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the contribution of the Ministry to improving the banking product, called the Carta Farmer. 9. The Question No 564/22-2-2016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance on the assessment of the new financial measures for the period 2015-2016. 10. The No 568/22-2-2016 topical question by the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR. Mr Ioannis Koutsoukou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of the compensation and aid due to the farmers of Elias for the damages to the agricultural production of the 1st half of 2015. 11. The question by No 578/23-2-2016 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Sakis Bardalis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the redundancy of a worker at the factory of "K.E. KARAMARAKIS - KARAS S.A. - ANNUAL INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE INSTITUTIONS' IN THE Industrial Area of Sindos, in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. 12. Under number 573/23-2-2016, a topical question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the need for more complete information to PPC clients on the possibilities and protection offered to sensitive social groups. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The No. 571/22-2-2016 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Health, on the need to complete the tender launched since 2007 for the supply of new ambulances of the EMCDDA. The topical questions, which will be answered by the same Minister or State Secretary, will be discussed after each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the first topical question, please give me a few seconds to make an evaluation of the current parliamentary control. I must also express from this position, obviously also from this House, the strong dissatisfaction with the attitude of the Ministers, because, in particular, from the fourteen topical questions which should be discussed, and which are registered, only the four will unfortunately be discussed. The two are not discussed because of lack of competence, while the other eight are not discussed because of various obstacles declared by the ministers. We enter the second under number 585/29-2-2016 topical question of the second question of the Parliamentary Chios of New Democracy Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis to the Minister of Finance on the revision of government decisions to abolish the reduced VAT rate on the islands. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis. Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. You have indeed expressed the House. Two-thirds of the Ministers are absent today and one third are present. I should like to thank the present ministers who satisfy their government duties and honor the House. But for the two-thirds of the Ministers who are absent, the Conference of Presidents should now be very serious to discuss, because parliamentary control has been humiliated. Mr President, the issue of reduced VAT on islands is a European acquis in our country. Perhaps it is the only practical instrument where the government, the state, highlights islandity. Our islands have a particular transport cost, which affects product production, product transport, and that affects local economies. So there is the European acquis of the reduced VAT rate, which the institutions have tried to reverse. It's not a new matter. However, Mr Hardouvelis in his e-mail - in his famous 'e-mail Hardouvelis' - on page 3 he accepted only the increase in VAT on hotels and on page 27 he said that the issue of VAT on the islands is outside the programme debate and it is something that needs to be discussed in general in Europe when we talk about VAT again. However, Prime Minister Tsipras in his own proposal to the institutions, on page 3, suggested that Greece should abolish the reduced VAT rate. And I cannot repeat what I said at the time that the Prime Minister's proposal did not mention the abolition of VAT on the islands. He just mentioned the law, and he says abolishing the exception of the law, so that we can confuse and not understand it. But what I would like to ask you today is this. Following the famous negotiation in the summer of 2015, in 2016, the reduced VAT rates were abolished in all islands. Recently, government officials, SYRIZA officials, said this was re-examined. Indeed, it will be very positive if it is re-examined, but because the evaluation is now and is specific, I ask in particular the following. Firstly, has the government raised the question of the reintroduction of special rates of VAT to the islands in the context of this negotiation? Is it at this table now with the institutions or is it simply being discussed about internal consumption? Secondly, if they are on the table, have you proposed any equivalents or have you proposed another way to cope with the financial effect? Thirdly, does the government have to propose positive equivalents to islanders as compensatorys, ensuring the insularity clause, as provided for in the Greek Constitution? Finally, in some islands the abolition of the reduced VAT rate has already been applied. Did he have the financial results we've been waiting for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u5	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, you are right to raise the issue - and you, Mr President - of our obligations as Ministers, but I should like to say the other side of the moon! I try to be consistent with my parliamentary obligations. I have to respond sometimes to all three days of the week, within the framework of parliamentary obligations. I've come, to answer, eighteen times since 1-1-2016. I would therefore ask that, at some point, questions should be raised in a week, not more than two, so that we can respond both to the duties of the House and to the obligations of the Ministries. As far as the serious issue you raise now is concerned, I have informed you several times about this issue in Parliament. I have participated in the respective committee meeting, where the Bureau of Parliament came and discussed all these issues in detail and explained exactly where we are and what we are doing. Of course, we are trying, whether in terms of indirect taxation or direct taxation, to have measures - as foreseen by the 2015 Act - to compensate for the problem caused by the increase in VAT on the islands. Especially at this time when we know that the islands, which are in the eastern part of the Aegean, are facing the huge economic and social problem of refugees, cannot be charged with increasing VAT. Of course, you are right to write in your question that we are doing our utmost to strengthen the concept of islands and islands to enjoy other compensatory measures. At this time and in the past time, we have been trying to negotiate and anywhere else, to alleviate the islanders from this subject of VAT, as well as the Greek citizens as a whole. But I will repeat once again that it is a specific political and economic framework, which has forced us to follow these tax measures. We are not happy, it is not our political choice for these measures - we have said so many times - it is a political necessity. And I wish we had other financial data, I wish we had other equivalents, so we didn't have to make these decisions and we could have other tax decisions. That is why every proposal has not been tabled so far - whether it relates to VAT in education, when we had the dialogue, whether it relates to VAT on the islands or anything else, we will welcome it to see if something else can be done. I would like to assure you, however, as I have said many times, that we are exhausted at government and negotiation level in order to restore the problem of the islands and to help in general the islands that had the VAT issue and the rest of the tax issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u8	Minister, do not give you the impression that you have been invited so many times to the House to answer questions when the entire government's financial adjustment programme is based on taxes. Since two-thirds of the new memorandum are new taxes, it is very normal to have many questions to the Minister responsible for taxation. As far as the substance of your answer is concerned, I have to say that I was disappointed. Because in a free translation you told me that things are difficult, we can't do anything else. I asked in particular: is the negotiating table with the institutions not to abolish the reduced rate on the islands? From your answer, I realized it's not. I realized that you understood the problem, that you were sympathetic, but after the proposal made by the Prime Minister in the summer of '15 to the institutions, which Greece put the issue of VAT on the islands at the negotiating table, your attempt to collect it later did not do well. We have adopted legislation, and if you do not immediately, you, as a government, have a specific legislative initiative in this House, which abolishes the article which was passed in August 1915, in a very few months' time this reduced VAT on the islands will be abolished. And you have not predicted any equivalent specificity, as the Constitution imposes, for islandity. Our islands, Minister, are currently facing multiple blows, beyond the general economic crisis that concerns the whole of the country, such as immigration. We were recently with the National Defence Deputy in Chios, where the hot spot works, and we currently have hundreds of arrivals every hour. We have a huge problem with tourism. As you know, bookings on the islands affected by the refugee problem are very low and have recently been submitted. In Lesvos they are down by 90%, in Chios by 60%, in Kos by 36%, in Samos by 40% and the abolition of the reduced VAT on the islands, so they will be expensive for hotels over there. In Chios, we also have a new problem that emerged yesterday. It seems that the government wants to abolish the compelling of Chios's Mastic Society. So we see that this government only brings bad news to the islands. Something positive has not yet been said and we are going to be in a year and a half. I repeat, Minister, since you too believe that VAT on the islands is not a financial instrument, it is not a fair measure, why do you not come today to table a legislative initiative to abolish it? But the most important thing is that you ask for equivalents. Equivalents are specific. Firstly, another productive model for the country, a model based on new investments, based on the creation of wealth rather than over-taxation of those who today say, of those who produce today. That's the big change you need to make. And secondly, I have said so many times, Mr Tsipras' memorandum is the same as Mr Georgios Papandreou's memorandum. It is 2/3 taxes and 1/3 costs, while the 2012-2014 financial adjustment, which led the economy in 2014 to a positive growth rate that you lost in 2015, was based on the return. It relied on 2/3 on expenditure and 1/3 on taxes. So here's the equivalent. More expenditure reduction, tax reduction, another culture in favour of the private sector to bring about investment. These are the equivalents, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Metarakis, I have been expecting more evidence and not more general proposals from you when I asked for equivalent. Because when you tell me that the equivalent is another productive model, it reminds us of some other solutions that we may hear in political life, which remind most metaphysical situations or other political stories, which if we open them now we will have a lot of work to do for the 20.00 issues. Let's put them out of the way. It's very clear what I said. You may interpret it as you wish. We are trying, whether in direct or indirect taxation, to have such arrangements to help both the islands and the rest of society. It will not be serious of us to come here and say: 'In the negotiations we propose this, we have the same problem, there is the same solution', etc. You have served as Minister and you know very well that the negotiation issues are very thin. If it happens with camera lights on them, with microphones and publicity of every moment about what's said, it won't work. We have achieved a number of things on the subject of taxation in the negotiations, which I have said before in the House, and I will not waste time explaining them. But in relation to what we want to do on the islands, we have specifically spoken to you - in the respective committee of Parliament, at a three-hour meeting, in the presence of Parliament's Budget Office, in which we discussed specific things and said exactly where we are and what we have to do. But here, you tried to get back into the past. You also made a correct forecast for a year and a half SYRIZA. We haven't booked a year and a half. We are a year and we will be closing down to the government for too many years, because what I see in your political criticism is that you are not tabling the different political proposal. What you are tabling - what you want to convince the citizens - is that heaven was the situation before the SYRIZA Government came to power and now hell. I would remind you, however, that, for example, in the property tax of 600 million, which we had earlier memoranda, we reached 3.3 billion, because this is how much HIS certification is. So "taxes, taxes, taxes" was your motto, and we're trying to get through it. I would like to remind you that, in our criticism of these provisions, we accept that Mr von Habsburg's report is a good one. 4334 in July 2015 was voted by two hundred nineteen MPs, 4336 on 14 August 2015, voted by two hundred twenty-one MP. I imagine you're among the people who voted for them. These laws increased VAT on the islands and because we came to adopt the relevant ministerial decisions, we accept the criticism of the implementation of the laws. It is a specific political and economic framework in which we are obliged to move. In this context, we will act responsibly and with whatever potential we have, we will share taxes fairly and proportionately, in accordance with Article 4 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before going to the next timely question, let me make two announcements to this House. The first concerns the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, which submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Deposit guarantee schemes (incorporation of Directive 2014/49/ European Union), Deposit Guarantee Fund and other provisions’. The second communication concerns a letter from Mr Konstantinos Zouraris, who informs the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, that he is applying for a absence permit from Parliament for the period from 21 March 2016 to 26 March 2016 in order to attend some events abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u12	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We enter the fourth under number 581/24-2-2016 current question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of National Defence, on the "revelation of the Greek Defence Systems". The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas. Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone and everyone. Minister, with the burdens of the Ministry of Education I did not have time to understand and understand what Mrs. Genemas said many times - I am referring to 2013 and 2014 - when they were talking about NSAs and the need to keep this company alive. Because now you see it, too, when you bend carefully on certain issues, you don't have time to understand everything. Developments have come and made me, as a foreign and defence officer of the Democratic Independence, a community of the problems that the NSAs have today. That is why we have tabled a question with Mrs Christophilopoulou. But that's not enough. We wanted the Minister of National Defence to come to the House, answer two specific questions concerning the operation, survival of the Greek Defence Systems. This company, Minister, was from the establishment of a problematic company and had deficits. Now, with the collapse of the country and the loan by our partners, the issue was raised in 2012-2013 of stopping the operation of this company and shutting it down and it was really a very big fight from the then government and especially from the Deputy Minister of Defence, Ms. Genemas, to be kept alive. This attempt was complicated. It concerned the restructuring of the company internally with its factories, the voluntary exit of workers and the maintenance of five hundred jobs with a view to increasing these orders, the grant line with EUR 5.8 million for the needs of the company's capital movements, the guarantee of EUR 35 million with EUR 10 million advance and the verification, under the suffering of our own research and the investigation that our partners, who wanted to close down, that there are 40 million outstanding orders and the prospect of orders for the next two - three years from EUR 105 million to EUR 245 million, depending on the course of the cases. And the verification - from the others I mean, Minister, and I am now committed to speaking completely openly - was not a mere view of written evidence. It was a conversation with embassies, because the orders were both internal, for the equipment of our defensive line, but also external. Because NSAs are a serious company. That's how the company survived and gained perspective, Minister. I should like to close, Mr President, and I would like to continue with my remarks, stressing the following: firstly, work peace had been ensured - I will say in my denunciation today - there were no barbaric and feminine redundancies, which are now there, and there was no outstanding programme. Now it is all at stake, because the Minister who took over after Mrs Gemmas, Mr Quissy - like many others - when he was explained what the course was like to say 'what troika'? - they were the famous marches of the "Varoufakada" at that time! - he ignored all these developments and had something else in mind. What else now, when the beans are counted, please tell me yourself. Because you have been taking over since the summer of 2015 the Ministry of National Defence. I do not remember exactly when you personally took over after the reform, Minister, but the NSAs are under your political supervision and we want you to tell us whether the company's survival plan is alive and what exactly you are thinking about and how you are dealing with the issues of the lack of labour peace that I think is a situation in the NSAs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Vitsats, Deputy Minister of National Defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Loverdos, you know very well and lawfully - as far as I know - and economically. As far as the question is concerned, it is an inalienable right to any political power, but its pension is, in my opinion, unfortunate in this effort, but let us leave that. You understand that all things happen in space and time. What do I mean by that thing? When previous ministers were found - and I mean the ministers of your government - in front of a situation where the NSAs had about EUR 100 million deficit every year, when in recent years there have been arrears of EUR 1 billion, they have made an agreement. If I was in that time, I'd see her one way. This agreement, seeing it now, I would say that it was a shrinking agreement and, as you said, by eight hundred workers, it provided for it to have five hundred - at the moment it has five hundred twenty-six - and at the same time it did not provide for which workers would be and kept the link between administrative and productive personnel at levels that are not acceptable to the international operational process. What did we do? I have to tell you that two of my partners are working on a daily basis for the political part of NSAs and the military part of NSAs, in the sense that they are trying to help as they are trying to help both the LCA and the Metal-Industrial Epirus, etc. Secondly, we have full cooperation with the management of the company. Thirdly, I have seen the workers' unions as a whole twice and we are trying, taking into account the agreement, negotiating certain dynamic elements so that we can go forward, keep the company and take it forward. Because, as you know, the agreement provided that if within 2015 the objectives it had were not met, the company would have to proceed to further contraction, to three hundred eighteen workers and two factories. On this deal, now, what have we done? Firstly, something has been done which in a sense is a little strange. While we closed the Elefsina factory, no single job has been lost. And the strange thing is, with the decision I was made by the workers, that is to say, they did it to me by thanking me, because no job has been lost. Secondly, we are forming a new organizational chart of the company. Thirdly, we have drafted an integrated budget for 2016 with real elements, not with evidence that there may be programme agreements that have never been met. We are trying to deal with them, with the result that both the Ministry of Finance and the institutions have accepted the 2016 budget, which appears to have a surplus of 433,000. In other words, about 39 million revenues and about 38 million costs. In this sense we are trying to put the whole company and the workers - and I think they are responding - to a flow, seeing the weak points of the previous agreement, of which I mentioned one. The second point, which I would like to mention in relation to the previous agreement, is, as Mr Christogiannis said, that they had been compromised - and you mentioned it in your question - a number of millions, but that had not been compromised. That's our main problem. Now we are compromised or now we are reconciling. And the Minister of National Defence and I - the Minister in India, I in America - have reached agreements that are currently under way and are in operation and have a long time ahead of them, at least five years. This is a very important issue, which is currently in place. The last one is this. In this process, there has been the decision of the Management Board, as you know. First of all, I have to tell you this and you will understand it as a lawman. When I first read the NSAs, there was a legal department of eleven lawyers. Eleven! At the same time, legal offices were also being exploited outside the company. Ordinary practice. I'm not talking about special things. But in the five hundred and twenty, the eleven to be lawyers - I don't make the choice - it's too much, to say it like that. Secondly, it is well known that the management of the company has made six redundancies. What we did as an office was to ask why these redundancies were made - there are letters - and after the reply, and after the workers' unions, we asked for one - one redundancies to be re-elected, and one to be taken into account - someone would say - even humanitarian criteria in relation to the establishment plan. What do I mean, humanitarian? Don't take anything for granted, but if, for example, it's someone two years before retirement, you understand that you're seeing it in another way. That's what I mean. This situation is evolving. By the end of this week, beginning next, there will be finalisation, which we will again discuss with the workers, not only with the Ministry of Labour but also with the workers themselves directly and I think we will find the right solution. Finally, since I told you earlier that we are taking into account and implementing the agreement - I will not go into other matters on the agreement - we are also negotiating a change of the agreement. Personally, I think that the four factories can remain active and work-related. That's the basic thing. One of my jobs - I mean the Ministry, I mean the administration, etc. - is to find such jobs, at a time when the budget of the Ministry of National Defence has been reduced in terms of equipment, maintenance, by about 68% in recent years. You know it's decreased by 68%. So an industry has difficulties. Secondly, what we are doing is putting into all international industrial agreements. Industrial participation primarily goes to state defence companies and private defence companies. Thirdly, we are promoting the cooperation of state-owned companies with the private defence industries, i.e. the state industry with the private industry, so that we can have a co-development and, at the same time, an extroversion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u17	I hope, first of all, that any effort will succeed, for the benefit of the workers, for the sake of the country. But, Minister, not with difficulty what you said, it is clear that much valuable time has been lost, which is also part of your day, because the first absurd and completely unrealistic period was not short, but the next one, following the remodelling of July and now counts for seven to eight months. This is a company, which has the problems that I have mentioned and which you have mentioned, but neither have I mentioned nor have I mentioned the outstandingity of the claim - it is not definitive, but there is, as a matter of EUR 1 billion, as illegal State aid. It burdens the environment. Or you verify a company's ability to live because you're fast running to settle and execute the programs or sleep, you're dreaming, you're wasting time, you're charging things, and you're finally condemning a company that had a future. In your hands now it's not going to happen. I don't see what you're saying. After thirteen months, fourteen, those who are as SYRIZA - ANEL in governance, I don't see a result. We, as a previous government, have had a firm withdrew and have delivered it with a view to and sustainable delivery, not from our own assessment but from an evaluation that has been cross-checked - I repeat, as I said in my prototype - and from the country's lenders, from the partners. I would not ask a timely question, Minister, because my written question with Mrs Christophilopoulou was enough - if I did not see the workers' announcements in exactly the opposite direction to what you are saying on 22 February. There are communications from the workers of February, please - I asked them 24 February - where they speak with phrases, which I cannot understand since I am not working there to know the climate, but which are, of course, too heavy. I'll put it all in the Minutes. I'm transferring them to the Chamber. They're not mine. Others lived in the possession, others in the junta, we live the SYRIZA - ANEL is the announcement. The other communication refers to unjustified dismissals of people, for whom there is not even a single reproach. I'm filing these announcements. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned communications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, it mobilizes me the content of the communications relating to the delay in adopting and implementing the programmes and the failure to operate the company under these circumstances. I do not want you to say 'compatible' to me, with great lengths. I want you to tell me what's been compromised and what's being executed. If you are unable to tell me this, it means that there is no real political supervision on this matter and it is necessary for you and me to come back after a few weeks. I will. But if you are in a position, in fact, to supervise the NSAs, you must now tell me from these conventions, which we have and which you have even received as non-conventional programmes and those that you have received as programmes that are compatible with what is being carried out and what is to be carried out immediately. If this in March 2016 you are not in a position to tell me, I understand and those who are listening now realize that the company is "in the air". I would ask you very much in your second answer to be specific. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u19	Despite the fact that he understands that this is a company, which is in the process of reconstruction and in an attempt to balance its balance sheet and exceed it - because that is the main thing, it is not just budgets - and in a process in which he wants to have an extroversion and win new contracts, he insists on saying that he is in danger, that he closes, etc., which is not happening. So let me tell you very specifically about the decisions on 2015 and 2016. There are for 2014, as you understand, contracts that work, because when you close a contract in 2014 or 2013 or 2015 it may be over the following years. We have delivered the products - I say for 2014 - to the company 'RWM', to the company 'ELBIT', to the company 'BIDETON', to the company 'GIK' and are currently on orders from 'ATK' - which is known as a company - and RWM. In 2015, they were signed and are in operation and are in progress with the company ‘RHEINMETAL’L, with the company ‘LLOYD’, which has already been handed over, and the ‘HK FRANCE’, which are in progress. The agreement with Morocco has been pending for several years for how it can evolve. For 2016 there is a company in progress for ten million ammunition 7.62, and at the moment we are in the final stage of a contract with the 'ATK' of 32 million, for a contract with the Kenyan government of 9 million and we are in the first phase of another one - that is to say, we expect the decision of the Indian Minister of National Defence - on ammunition of 17 million. These are outside the relationship between the Army and the Armed Forces of the country from which - let me say on the interior that they are already in progress and that the ammunition 40x53 of the Army has been compromised, as well as the Minimi Army. At the same time we are in progress - and I shall end with this - the 'OTO MELA' case, which is 23 million for the Navy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u20	Will you testify?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u21	I'll give you a series of details, and in any case I'll send them to you. I can't give it to you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u22	Minister, I'm sorry for the interruption because you announced a proposal I made, you can table it in the Minutes so that the questioner and the House can know.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u23	I will send you a complete situation, which will have in and the 2016 NCA budget - is also posted - and the ongoing activities. At the same time we are promoting the transfer of the production line from Elefsina to Lavrio, and we are reconstructing - because there are other cases, and there is no reason now to recycle the debate - particularly the Lavrio factory and the relationship between Saint-Himo and the Himittos and Lavrios workers in production - I will close with this - with the workers in the administration. This has also brought us the problem - precisely to say that we are not on a degressive path, but on an upward track - of the need for for forty-five new recruitments and we have made the request to the AACC. The APA with its procedures - and you know they're time-consuming - has the request and still looks at what it will do. And in this way we have had to make fixed-term contracts with forty-five employees, who are currently working at the NSAs. It's what I'm talking about in the common language - how do I say it? - We say "employers." I don't like that, and I don't even like it being done, because there's sometimes an element of opacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u24	Before continuing with the next timely question, ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "GREERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-two students and students and two teachers attending the 7th Keratsini Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Allow me, for practical reasons, to say the timely questions which will not be discussed because of lack of competence, which, as I said at the beginning of the sitting, are two. The first under number 587/29-2-2016 top-level question of the first cycle of MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the integration into the new NSRF of the "Old Electricity" project of the Municipality of Carditsa will not be discussed due to lack of responsibility. Competent Ministry - as declared - is the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism. Also, the sixth question under number 591/29-2-2016, on the management of the sanctuary of the Greek Independents Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the management of the sanctuary after the decision of the Board. In this respect, the Court held that the right to rent to the municipality was unconstitutional, and that it would not be discussed as a result of lack of competence. The Ministry of Finance is the Ministry of Finance. The fourth question will be discussed under number 580/23-2-2016 in the Second Cycle of the Parliamentary Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on compliance with the existing legislation in the invitation of interest to cover the position of the Director-General of the Thessaloniki Film Festival. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Aristides Baltas. Mrs. Kefalidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your presence. Other colleagues did not have my own luck today and their questions are not discussed. So we start with the question I've asked you about the Thessaloniki Film Festival. He's a legal person under private law. It is run by an Administrative Board and a Director-General. Recently Mr. Dimitris Eipidis, who was the Director General, resigned after twenty-four years in the Festival area. There is, therefore, a call for expressions of interest under Protocol No 28 on 22-01-2016, which comes out of the board of directors which - to shorten up - says very simply that the Director-General must have administrative, organisational and financial management experience, preferably in the field of cinema. Law 3905/2010 in Article 27 states very clearly that the general director of the Thessaloniki Film Festival is indeed proposed following a public invitation - an expression of interest and must be a person of recognised authority from the cinema, Greek or global. So this little strawberry, "preferably", also creates questionable violations - I would say to you - of the law, because they very simply risk coming as candidates and ultimately being proposed for the post of director, all those who have experience and relationship to finance but who are completely irrelevant to cinema. Therefore, there is a risk that a very excellent manager, with great experience in the field of management and financial management, but from the industry or from the supermarkets, will be covered. And because we are talking about a leading institution in the field of culture, which is extremely important and as such must be dealt with by the state, I believe that these uncertainties cannot go unnoticed, and that is why we are making a criticism of what the government really intends to do. I will tell you that the political circumvention of the law in mosquitos is an old cutting tactic, which has caused problems that we have paid for and we still pay them dearly. So because the Thessaloniki Film Festival really is, in its own way, the mirror of culture, I would like to ask you how you intend to safeguard the process and what you will do to ensure that the law is respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kefalidou, there are, I think, two dimensions in your question and one is, above all, a misunderstanding. The notice expressly mentions Article 27, where the candidate general director of the Thessaloniki Festival must be known prestige with regard to cinema, Greek or international. That's not what's going on. Just after we had a debate with the administration of the Festival, it is clear that in their view, because in the functions of the Director-General there is, in addition to the director-General, supervision over the international audiovisual producers, over the Cinema Museum, over the financial and administrative support of the whole institution, as the Director-General is also the head of the autonomous legal service, a clarification, a specialisation, if you like, of the phrase 'knowledge of prestige' with regard to the Greek or global cinema was needed in the notice. So it says the Management Board - I am referring to the Management Board and I will tell you immediately why - that this form of notice wants to apply, those who are known prestige over the cinema have evidence of experience of this type, which can make them adequate in terms of the complex position of the Director-General. That is the basic answer. What I want to say more and I am facilitated by your question, is that it must be made clear that the Ministry of Culture and Sport, in relation to the supervised bodies and, in particular, those who have an artistic work to do, does not intervene. There are boards of directors. The boards of directors shall select artistic directors as appropriate. These directors, in cooperation with the Management Board, do what they need to do, depending on the subject of each supervised body and the Ministry must not and must not interfere with any of this. It exercises, of course, administrative and financial retrospective supervision, cooperates with them in relation to the various needs presented here or there, but it must be made quite clear, that there is no such scope for intervention or that there must be no. I think that in the first part of what I said, I answered your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u29	Minister, from my experience, because I have been in self-government for several years, I would like to say that very often we are seeing competitions that start with the best of intent, not end up anywhere. Even a party can blow up a contest in the air. Friends of lawyers have recently told me that 90% of public declarations have such failures that even a law senior can offend them and cancel them. You have been a Minister of Religion and Culture Education, along with Mr. Xydakis during the first period as Deputy Culture. I want to ask you. Have you met with the institutional representatives of the site, have you spoken to directors, filmmakers, technicians? There is a terrible unemployment in the area, Minister, which reaches 90% and at such times, I think the government should be a little more careful. When the state itself fails to respect the law, because for what you tell me that the board of directors, trying to better interpret the law and create conditions that will probably exclude some misinterpretations, interpreted in its own way and "preferably", I will tell you that I have not learned to operate in this way, at least I. And I want to ask you, if there's any design, at least on your side. Do you know why I'm saying it? Unfortunately, Mr Minister, since the beginning of your term of office, we have met a logic of 'decide and order'. You ignored the law too many times. You have kept faces of prestige, known to their actions and known their role and course, and you have unleashed a barrage, I would tell you, removals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Remember what? The National Theatre with Mr Hatzakis, where while the man left, why was it considered that there are some economic irregularities, along the way, that he is clean and there is no question, and you have never been restored in the course of the process and the board of directors? What am I supposed to talk about? At the Hellenic Cinema Center, where Mr Xydakis signed your signature, without any justification and without resigning the members of the board of directors, stopped them at night, so that there would be a choice by the board of directors of your choice for a person of your choice in the post of Director-General? And all this goes on with the Central Archaeological Council and the Museum Council, where you have changed, that is, you have given up administrations. Also at the State Theatre of Northern Greece, Mr. Vouros, who as Artist Director was stopped by you and then forced to resign the president and vice president. At the Athens Festival? Mr Lukos, who was also suspended first by the board of directors, has also ceased on the assumption that there are deficits and irregularities. There, however, is also a close partner of yours, Mr. Duros, who was a close associate and Mr. Luku, and all the weight fell on Mr. Lucos and no one else. I stop here, to tell you very simply, that the question remains. And the question is: What is anyone waiting for in a country where the state itself does not honour legislation and illegally? If you leave the matter as it is, you will create such conditions where anyone who wants to be illegal, even legalized. Choose who you want. The rumors say the newspapers, at least - the "MAKEDONIA OF KYRIAKIS" - are saying that you have already chosen who will be the Director-General. Do it, but do it legally. If you don't like the law, you have the margin to change it. I, what I have to ask you to do, is to take care of the matter, because in the end you are in danger, and without a director-general, to find yourself exposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Kefalidou. The Minister has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u31	Mrs. Kefalidou, I thought the conversation was a good one, but with what you said, I think you raised this issue at quite different levels. Very soon, then, because there is no time - I want to tell you this. You're talking about a deal with the law. It is obviously true, as mentioned by article 27, which states: "Person of unknown prestige from the field of Greek or global cinema". The same article also stipulates: "The Director-General is head of all the services of the festival. In particular, a directorate of festivals, an address of international audiovisual producers, museums, films, financial and administrative support, as well as independent legal service.’ The two components of this article are the notice. We are done with this, we are perfectly legitimate, according to the Management Board. The Management Board is perfectly legitimate and we agree with the form of the notice. From there on, the board will choose and we will go further. The other thing you said is out of the question. And what you said about the Athens Festival, I think there are too many things that should not be overcome. You have recently read an interview by Mr. Rakinzis in the "Publishers' Newspaper", which fully confirms what we said before, when we had to change the director-general of the Festival. From there, where did you find Mr. Durus? What does Fantis have to do with retsinolado? What about the alpha or the beta? It would take us too far to go there. And I am sorry about the style of this question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the fourth and last questions, let me make an announcement in time of the unspeakable questions by the Ministers. The second, under number 584/29-2-2016, is a top-stage question by the Member of the Attica Parliament, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the implementation of the Ministerial Decision on the concession of Olympic Village sports facilities in the Municipality of Acharnon, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The third, with number 582/26-2-2016, a top-cycle question for Congressman I Piraeus - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and the Aegean, regarding the provision and safeguarding of the workers' working relations at the Piraeus Port Agency after the sale of the majority package of shares in the PPA, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fifth under number 589/29-2-2016 top-level question by MP IV of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on measures to ensure the cleanliness of the school units and the labour rights of cleaners and cleaners employed in the schools of the country will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The sixth question under number 586/29-2-2016, first question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the transfer of educational skills of primary education, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The first under number 588/29-2-2016 topical question by MP Fthiotidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Astalos Karastasis, to the Minister of Health, on dealing with the problems of the operation of the General Hospital of Lamia, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The third, with number 583/26-2-2016, a topical question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the "entrustment of our Macedonian name to the Skopje", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fifth under number 590/29-2-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the immediate reopening of the recycling plant in Heraklion Crete and the reintegration of workers from "WASTE - SOLUTIONS", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. Finally, the eighth question under number 497/8-2-2016, on the second question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Barriots, to the Minister of Health, on health problems, serious deficiencies in intensive care units (IMPs) and the development of the National Transplant Organisation (EMO) will also not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. We will discuss the seventh under number 534/15-2-2016 topical question by the New Democracy MP Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the parametering of the prices for the sale of electricity by professional farmers and owners of photovoltaic stations. The current question will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Panagiotis Skourletis. Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you know, the compensation prices for electricity produced by RES stations have been redefined downwards. The calculation of the new reduced prices did not take place in the air. It was based on criteria such as the cost of construction of the plant and its time of interconnection with the system. The parametrication, as it is said, was the case, Minister, for all except professional farmers who have photovoltaic stations. To those with a legislative improvement which was made literally at around five, a horizontal reduction was imposed, i.e. a 12% cut in prices, without justification and without the agreement of the Central Legislative Committee and without the approval of the committee responsible. This practically creates two speeds for farmers and owners of photovoltaics. On the one hand, those who built the units in 2011 and 2012 at an investment cost of between EUR 200,000 and 300,000, depending on the construction quarter and on the other, are some who invested their PV units in 2013 and at much lower cost of up to 50%. Therefore, following the price reduction, the return on the investment is still well higher for those farmers who manufactured in 2011 and 2012. The question, therefore, is whether you will proceed to the calibration of the sales prices for professional farmers who have manufactured the corresponding period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Yoyaka, you refer to n.4254/2014. In 2014 we know what the government was. I therefore see in your question a opposition to today's Opposition and the government at the time, because this law did not only bring down to professional farmers but also to other PV holders. Reviews of the specific arrangements of this law have been made by almost all people who own PV. So without their responsibility, they were in front of new situations. But what's going on here right now? We are at a stage where we are working on a new overall structural framework for renewable energy on the basis of the European guidelines. This new framework has already been set up for consultation and is expected within the next period, in the foreseeable future, after the comments made and in consultation with the European Commission, to be made. It is therefore necessary, before any interference with the law that you refer to in the Samara government, to make the overall new picture possible. We cannot continue in a way that was finally in the air. It was on the air to plan the penetration of renewable energy sources, because there is a surplus of the state's insolvency against people who promised others and saw the course to reduce the guaranteed prices. So today we are heading into a new context where we are now leaving the guaranteed prices and going to a new regime, feed in premium and leave food in tarif. I repeat that this is a European strategy. We are, of course, doing so, because we want to improve distortions in this area, in the area of the development of renewable energy sources. More specifically, we are in agreement and contact with the banks at this time, which must assume responsibility for reducing the cost of serving the loans that had been made for the earlier investments. That includes, of course, the accusation you have just said. He was in another period of economic situation. The second thing we are concerned with at the moment - and indeed we have been in contact with Mr Alexiadis - is the so-called 'end' and 'cost' for those who have cut-off photovoltaics, which will be charged, that is to say, to be regarded as an exit and thus to be deducted from their taxable material. The last thing I would like to say - and I am particularly interested in the rural world - is the possibility that they will be able to invest in photovoltaics with the net metering system, namely self-production. This is the most critical and most substantial structural change for the rural world. Indeed, it should not only serve the place where the photovoltaic unit is located but there should be the viral net metering, i.e. serve other rural lots and estates that are not in this place. I believe that this will be something that must also be included in a corresponding financing programme and will now be an incision and a significant relief for the rural world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u37	Minister, it can be a 2014 law, despite all that needs to be improved or moved in a better and positive direction and taking into account the difficult economic situation, which has been over the last few years, you realize that appropriate corrections must be made. But from there, as you know very well, these farmers will have to submit their statements to the UNHCR for the preservation or not of the status of a professional farmer, and therefore we will have to clear them immediately, if they have this possibility or have an extension of at least three to four months, in order to have this possibility of submitting their declarations, so that people can clearly know if in the next period until you have made the new law, which you have already promised would be in action since January 2016, they will also be able to design and have the opportunity to submit objectively their statement. If you can give them an extension of three or four months, it would be the best possible solution until the bill you are preparing is completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Jogaka. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Jogakas, every responsible political force and, above all, the government must take into account an objective fact which says that it is related to the issue of the deficit in the account that we are paying for renewable energy. The previous reduction in guaranteed prices was obviously not made for the sake of punishment. There may have been a lack of good planning. There may have been urgency, insolvency on the part of the state. That, however, has been because we have come before the fact that the deficit in the special account is increasing through which renewable energy is paid. If this deficit grows, someone will cover it. And who will be the one to cover it? They will be Greek citizens, Greek businesses and Greek households. It is precisely what I told you before about the distorting way in which it was developed. Indeed, other real parameters such as the cost of an investment have been ignored many times. There were guaranteed prices excessive. Of course, it is right for the state, when it wants to encourage the penetration of renewable energy sources, to give some incentive. However, this must be done with a plan for the next and the following day. Because if this policy, as it has been done, leads to the increase in the deficit of the special account from which renewable energy is paid, then you realise that this is a policy which is self-evident because it is unreasonablely burdening the whole of society. So that is all we have to measure, so that we can now have a stable landscape. With regard to the new framework that you said, this will have retroactive effect from 1 January 2016. It's something that was known to have happened. At the moment, I repeat, we have finished any processing and are in the final consultation phase. From there on, we must always take into account the objective situation of the very economy we are in. There are no auctions, no populism, no big talk. We must take firm steps so that the existing photovoltaic or wind-powered units are also sustainable - that people know that they can live, exist and have their performances - but on the other hand we must guarantee and that we will not have an increase in the deficit of the special account or, of course, irrational charges, which will be borne by the entire Greek society. Therefore - and I conclude with this - we, following the completion of this new framework and the effort we have made to reduce the financial costs of loan service and the specific tax treatment I have mentioned before, will look at any more marginal improvement that can be achieved in such cases. One of the things you mentioned is the case of the professional farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that by letter the President of the Parliamentary Group Potami, Stavros Theodorakis, to the President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsi, informs us that a parliamentary representative of the party is appointed by George Amyras, MP Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u41	That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. We will be adjourned and will be back at 12 noon on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Deposit guarantee schemes (incorporation of Directive 2014/49/EU), Deposit Guarantee Fund and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meetings on 25 February 2016 and on 2 March 2016 that the draft law should be discussed at a meeting. So I propose that the debate be made uniform. I would also like to know the parties' proposals for special speakers and rapporteurs. SYRIZA rapporteurs will be Mr Tsakalis and Mr Dimas from the point of view of the New Democracy. Special speakers will be from the standpoint of Golden Dawn, from the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr Arvanitides, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Vardalis, from Potamis Theocharis, from the Independent Greeks Mr Kammenos and from the Association of Centres Mr Georgiadis. Parliamentary Representatives will be from SYRIZA Mr. Christos Mantas, from New Democracy Mr. Dendias, from Golden Dawn, from the Democratic Syntax of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Loverdos, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathanasopoulos, from Potami Mr. Danellis, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Papachristopoulos and from the Central Association. Minister, would you like to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u43	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u44	Mr. President, will he now speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u45	If he wants to talk, he deserves it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u46	Before the Minister takes the floor, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u47	In the case of proceedings, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u48	I should like to know, Mr President, if you have any idea when the positions of the Ministers will be taken. Will you now, Minister, take your place, or will you intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u49	I was saying, because yesterday there was a briefing to the European Parliament, to give you an update on the discussions that were taking place on the negotiation and to say a few things about the law very briefly, and if so, then to take the floor, to answer the questions. If you want me to talk later, I have no problem and the rapporteurs should first speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u50	That's impeccable. However, you, Mr President, must tell us whether, after the eight rapporteurs and special speakers, the Rules of Procedure will be respected and the six Members will speak if the Minister wants to intervene and then the parliamentary representatives will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u51	It's self-evident. We shall proceed under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u52	No, it's not always like that, because no matter what the ministers will do, the procedures, say, change.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u53	No, always under the Rules of Procedure when the Minister wants to intervene, he has the right to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u54	That's all! Well, we've got this show. In other words, we know that the Minister speaks now and, if he wishes, intervenes at another time, the eight rapporteurs and speakers speak and then the parliamentary representatives speak. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u55	That's right. It's self-evident. Mr. Chakalato, would you like to speak now? How long will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u56	A quarter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u57	All right, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u58	Good morning, everyone and everyone. Yesterday I had the opportunity to inform the respective Standing Committee on Economic Affairs of the European Parliament, where all the parliamentary groups were. I have informed them about the course of the negotiation and I am very concerned about the IMF delay. I remind you that the leaders had come about February 1st, if I'm not mistaken, and left Friday 5 February. We were told they'd be here in about ten days. I tried to force them to come in a week and now it's almost a month that they haven't come. I have explained why we are very close to the positions of the three European institutions, of the EMS, of the ECB and of the Commission, that the differences there are in the context of the negotiation and what one would expect to be discussed, but the IMF has a very tough attitude. It is supposed that this harsh attitude exists on both sides in the sense that it is pushing us to take more measures, but at the same time it also pushes Europeans to do more with regard to debt, so that the programme can be more sustainable. The IMF does not push for more pension cuts because it considers it not that the proposal we have tabled for insurance is not serious. It simply considers that the numbers do not come out to reach 3.5% primary surplus in 2018 and tells us, after you have cut everything else, from where you will find it, if you do not cut off any further from pensions. That is what we are saying: firstly, it is incomprehensible that the figures do not come out when the summer agreement had much lower predictions for growth than the ones that came out. In other words, when the discussions took place, it was about 2% less the average growth forecast, and now we know that it will be between 0.4% and 0.7%. In any case, there is no economist who thinks that we have gone worse than predictions, and therefore because growth was higher, we have also had more revenue than expected in the summer either from growth, as I said, or because we have had greater collection, as our measures against tax evasion are beginning to pay off. So it would be reasonable to ask for fewer measures, since the economy went better. We have explained that current pensions cannot be reduced any longer and that they have been cut 11 times, because in Greece they are playing the role of economic income, that is, they can help the unemployed, even the pensioners' grandchildren for their survival. We understand that in the long term we may have to spend as a percentage, namely as a composition of the overall budget for social matters less on pensions and more on other issues. For example, in Greece we have a very large proportion of poverty in children, so we should normally have more spending there too. But I'm sure that's what's gonna happen when we get back to development. Changes in the compositions of a specific budget for all social expenditure may be made later. All these arguments I have to tell you, they have had a great deal of response from what I understand from all sides of the European Parliament, from all the groups in Parliament. In fact, the President of the Commission, Roberto Galtieri, said that he himself does not understand why he is delaying the IMF and fully understanding the Greek position, that time is part of the negotiation and the delay creates financial problems and political problems, and he is in danger of becoming self-confidence, that the programme will not come out. I must tell you that I left with very good impressions about the political climate for Greek positions and I am convinced that at the moment the players who want a solution are far more than the players who do not want a solution. This is a source of optimism. In a reasonable world when what I just said applies, that most players want a solution compared to those who do not want a solution, it should not be far away. I hope it will be confirmed that we live in a reasonable world. On two points, I am sure, the rapporteurs, as they did in the committee, will make a very good report on the details of the draft law and the implementation of the directive. I would just like to say to you that what we have before us to guarantee deposits is the third pillar of the European Union's effort to deal with two problems that have occurred in recent years. One problem was the outflow of deposits from weak countries, such as Greece and Spain, to the north. The second is that in the banking system we often have the phenomenon of systemic crises, not that a Spanish or Italian or German has a problem because of mismanagement of misfortune or something else but a shock, some shock, which hits many banks at the same time. That is what we are trying to deal with with with with the banking union. We have the Rehabilitation Fund, which I think is going well. There is the fund that gives money to cases where it needs consolidation, which, in the view of the Greek Government, does not go far enough. Finally, there is the third pillar we are now debating, for deposits, the guarantee of deposits, which creates the prospects for a national system, but we still have not taken the following step, to have a European deposit guarantee system. That is why there are two points of view in Europe. I would also like to hear from the rapporteurs and from the debate whether the Greek Government's position on one of the two positions is supported. One position that is most supported by the German Government is that we must first put emphasis on reducing the risk of the banking system and then in a second period, focusing on how all countries share this risk. There is a federal deposit guarantee system in all monetary associations. If, in other words, there is a problem in Texas or California in the United States, support is given by the federal state. The Germans and other countries say that we are not ready for this, that we must first reduce the risk and then see how this risk will be shared. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I can still have two, three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u59	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u60	The other countries, particularly Italy and also with the support of the Greek Government, are promoting the idea that the reduction of the risk must go hand in hand with the sharing of the risk. They say that for a number of reasons. Firstly, because it is not true that what the European Union is doing so far is just the sharing. The provisions of the EBRD, which allow bail in deposits, are already a risk reduction move. Within this bill you will see many arrangements that reduce the risk. For example, there is the provision in the law that stipulates that there must be full information from the banks to the CEC. You'll see that there's a provision, that all the banks pay for it. Take note of this, you representatives of the JRC, Mr Karathanasopoulos, not to tell me that the poor taxpayers are paying for it. How can this payment be made? Depending on how risk each credit institution takes. If, in other words, a credit institution is considered more risky, then it pays more toward the fund. So there is this, and it is not true what some countries say, that we are dealing only with sharing rather than reducing the risk. Secondly, we believe that if not all countries share the risk, a self-confidential prophecy becomes more likely, there can be a systemic crisis. Let me tell you the Greek Government's view and ask for the support of the other parties, so that this position can be shared. In our view, we must support the Italian position, that these two must go together. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The stress we have is this: If we take all three pillars together, we are better covered if there is a crisis in two banks in Spain, three banks in Italy, one bank in Greece. But if we have a new systemic crisis, which is not clear yet where it might come from, then we need to move more towards sharing the risk. I would like you to take this position, because I think this is an important European debate. I think you will support us. I don't put it in opposition. I believe that the interest of Greece, the Greek credit system, is in this direction that Italy has supported. I think there can be a consensus in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u61	Thank you. Minister, I'd like you to make an explanation before you sit down, if you can. Everyone is talking about, fighting, and the media are asking the Prime Minister if, after the Eurogroup, there are some dates when it comes to visiting the Quartet - or whatever they say - for the evaluation, that is whether it will be done before or after Easter. Can you tell us if you have any information from the Eurogroup?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u62	I have tried to answer that question in a somewhat diplomatic manner. I will do this a little less diplomatic, if you want to clarify it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u63	Not me, they all want it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u64	Yes, Mr President, I understand what you are saying. My view is that players are pushing too hard to find a solution as soon as possible. I told you that I believe that in a reasonable world, when there are so many who understand the importance of closing the first assessment quickly, the expected is to close the evaluation quickly. I do not know if it will be solved in Eurogroup but I know that everyone is talking to everyone. There are official and informal meetings and there are too many people at the moment looking for a solution. That is why I am optimisticly finishing my speech. I won't tell you a date, because that creates expectations, and then we'll have a failure again. Generally I am quite optimistic that a solution will be found and a more comprehensive solution than we thought a few weeks ago on the issues that concern Greece, because everyone understands how important it is for citizens to understand first and foremost and for markets, that Greece has changed page. Everyone understands that if there is no such message, then the Greek Government's attempt to turn the vicious circle into a virtuous one is becoming very difficult. I think a few people now want this failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u65	So you rule out salamation, that is to say people starting to earn time, giving little - a few. What you say is apparent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u66	From what I am saying, it appears that whatever solution is found, it is the dominant one for the Greek Government that I told the European Parliament yesterday that a week after the solution, whatever it may be, it will come to the FINACIAL TIMES - or whatever newspaper you are listening to - and it will say: "Europeans have not kicked the can down on the road to make a decision later but a solution has been found that citizens and creditors will believe that Greece has changed page."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u67	I asked about the salamation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u68	I don't care what the technical solution is. I'm interested in the result. The result is important and you will find it hard to say, but you will feel it inside you and everyone else will be happy, because they understand it and want to say it, that a solution has been found, that the world, both inside and outside Greece, feels that Greece has changed page.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u69	So what you're telling me is, there's no way it's a little bit of money and a gradual evaluation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u70	Well, little was always the money. There will be a second and third and fourth evaluations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u71	Minister, thank you. Get into the bill discussion. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the incorporation of Directive 2014/49/EU and other provisions of the bill under discussion are entering this House in the current juncture on the national and European issue of refugee immigration. However, I am of the opinion that, on the occasion of this debate, the House should also send out the positive messages we received from the participants and participating in the relevant Committee on Economic Affairs Members of Parliament at the hearing of the bodies of the Hellenic Banking Union and the Bank of Greece. First of all, the recapitalisation of the Greek banks was successfully completed, and even at a much lower cost than expected. As a result, for the first time, after many years an increase in deposits in December 2015, by a small percentage, but by an indicative percentage of the trend that is being formed, taking into account the fact that during the six-year period of the crisis, from 2010 to the end of 2015, deposits decreased by EUR 114 billion. This trend is expected to be strengthened by the completion of the assessment and the removal of the restrictions on capital movements that are the main conditions for normalisation of the conditions and the return of deposits to Greek banks. Furthermore, with emphasis on the representatives of the two institutions that our banks are stable and our banking system is well armored, since the capital adequacy ratio of the Greek banks, after the completion of the recapitalisation, amounts to 18% compared to the 16% average for European banks. Finally, it was clearly stated that Greek deposits are now completely guaranteed and that the incorporation with this draft law of the new Community directive further strengthens the confidence of depositors and ensures financial stability.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u73	Please be quiet, because the rapporteur doesn't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u74	By evoking, as we owe them, these messages too, we are making a major contribution to increasing the confidence of citizens, who will not easily be victims of artificial rumours and dangers for the haircut of deposits and other disasters. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is divided into two parts. The first part includes provisions on deposit guarantee schemes. This is a transposition into our legislation of Directive 2014/49 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014. Furthermore, the corresponding provisions of Law 3746/2009 on the Deposit Guarantee Fund, known CEC, are replaced and repealed. The second part contains provisions for the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, in particular, the Directorate-General for Economic Policy and the General Secretariat for Public Revenue. This Directive is addressed to the Member States. The previous directive was incorporated into our legal system by Law 2324/1995, the provisions of which were codified and supplemented by Law 2832/2000. Law 2832/2000 was subsequently repealed and replaced by Law 3746/2009. In the interests of legal certainty, when the new directive is transposed, the corresponding provisions of Law 3746/2009 and national provisions regulating individual issues and to be maintained are repealed, with new regulation being transposed into this draft law. The previous directive was based on the principle of minimum harmonisation. For this reason, there is now a variety of deposit guarantee systems in the European Union with very different features. Different coverage may lead depositors to choose the highest protection of deposits and not their proper deposit product and generally cause distortions of competition in the internal market. The new directive establishes common rules for all deposit-guarantee schemes, which is considered to contribute to the elimination of distortions and further completion of the internal market. The aim of the new directive is to provide a uniform level of protection for depositors throughout the European Union and, at the same time, to ensure a level of stability in deposit guarantee systems. Innovatively, the new directive protects most of the depositors by setting as a harmonised ceiling the total amount of each deposit the amount of EUR 100,000, irrespective of the number of deposits, currency and place of deposit within the European Union. By way of exception, in some specific cases, an additional limit of EUR 100 000 is set, over and above EUR 30 000. The principle of harmonised amount per depositor is maintained and not per deposit. In addition to the stability of the financial system, a minimum level of capital needs to be provided for a deposit guarantee scheme. The new Directive includes the harmonisation of financing mechanisms for deposit guarantee schemes, the introduction of risk-based contributions and the harmonisation of the range of products and depositors covered. When working out in the Committee on Economic Affairs it has become clear that with a large majority Parliament accepts the purpose of the new directive and the draft, because it believes - correctly, in my opinion - that its arrangements protect most of the depositors and benefit them, (a) by setting as a harmonised ceiling the amount of EUR 100,000 or EUR 300,000 for some specific cases, (b) by maintaining the principle of harmonised amount per depositor and not per deposit, (c) by establishing a minimum level of capital that a deposit guarantee scheme must have; (d) by making improved access to deposit guarantee schemes, (e) by means of the broader and clearer coverage, (f) by better and identical to all information to avoid unfair competition and by setting additional means of financing, (g) by express recognition of the right of depositors to bring compensation against the EMI and the shorter deadlines for payment. It is therefore a good thing that the new directive will accomplish its declared purpose, namely improving consumer confidence and strengthening financial stability. Finally, as a result of the adoption by the new directive of the principle of harmonised amount per depositor, the deposit of depositors that are either not listed as beneficiaries of the account or are not the only beneficiaries of the account shall be considered. Some depositors, such as public authorities or other financial institutions, are not eligible for protection of their deposits because they have much easier access to information and credit than citizens. The limited number of such exceptions, as compared to other depositors, minimises the impact on financial stability in the event of a credit institution in weakness. This draft law reiterates the provisions of Law 3746/2009 on nature - a legal person governed by private law - the seat - in Athens - the supervision - by the Ministry of Finance - and the founding capital - EUR 8804,000 - of the TEC. The CECE, as an institution of the Greek deposit guarantee system, the investment guarantee scheme and the resolution fund, is intended to pay compensation for the deposit facility to depositors, credit institutions, the payment of compensation for the investment cover component to investors - customers of credit institutions and the financing of resolution measures by means of the resolution arm. These three legs are clearly distinct from each other and constitute separate sets of property. For the CECF’s financing costs and its financial capacity, which must be proportionate to its obligations, regular contributions shall be paid annually by credit institutions themselves. In addition, additional financing is envisaged with exceptional contributions and loans. According to the explanatory statement, the cost, for credit institutions, of participation in a TEK is without doubt lower than the cost of a generalised withdrawal of deposits, not only by a credit institution that would be in difficulty but also by sound credit institutions, following loss of confidence by depositors in the stability of the banking system. The contributions of credit institutions to the CECF shall be based on the amount of guaranteed deposits and on the degree of risk assumed by the relevant credit institution. Exercise of stress tests, so-called ‘strasse tests’, the exclusion from the CECF of a credit institution which does not fulfil its obligations and the introduction of governance principles are part of the arrangements of this draft law. The second part of the bill contains twelve articles, whereas Article 66 relates to the entry into force of the law. Articles 54 to 57 deal with matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. In particular, the provisions of several laws are amended and supplemented. Article 58 regulates issues relating to the Securities and Markets Committee. Article 59 introduces the implementing provision of Regulation 806/2014. Article 60 provides that arrangements shall be made for the Legal Council of the State. Articles 61 and 62 are amended and supplemented by the provisions of the National Customs Code concerning exemption from excise duty on products when used for the production of vinegar and exemption from customs duties, registration and luxury charges for vehicles of special categories of diplomatic and international organisations. Article 63 amends the provision of Law 3833/2010 for professional pleasure boats and adds a provision stating that private use means the use of an aeroplane, a waterplane and a helicopter for a commercial activity. Article 64 supplements Article 36 of Law 1676/1986. Finally, Article 65 adds a provision in the case of theft of wheeled cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too. The rapporteur, Mr Dimas, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are not discussing or having to vote on anything new. The incorporation of Directive 2014/49 updates the existing relevant legislative framework and confirms the collateralisation of deposits of EUR 100,000 per beneficiary per bank institution. I would remind you that this limit was introduced in 2008 on the Government of New Democracy. In fact, today's directive was adopted in 2014 during the period when Greece was holding the presidency in the European Union. However, there is indeed a need to update the legislative framework, as the system of guaranteeing deposits in the Member States of the European Union did not present a picture of homogeneity and different practices differed from objectives. I shall refer in summary to exactly what is provided for in this directive. In the banking union promoted by the European Union, all banks must be members of a deposit guarantee scheme in which they pay contributions of similar factors and their risk profile. Mr Minister, to answer your question, I should like to remind you that we have promoted the Banking Union on the Greek Presidency and we have already divided the risk. We continue to support - as we backed then - the creation of a single European deposit guarantee system. So we believe that both can move forward at the same time. The question, however, is whether you in 2014 also supported this. Because the reality is that you have changed your position on this matter. We remain firm in what we talked about and then. According to all depositors, whether natural persons or businesses, are granted protection of their deposits up to a amount of EUR 100,000 per credit institution from the CEC whose bank is a member. In Greece, the Banking and Investment Guarantee Fund is the management body of the Banking and Investment Services Guarantee System, which covers deposits of natural and legal persons, i.e. savings bank accounts, deposits of sight, current and forward deposits. The CECE participates all Greek banks - commercial and cooperative - the branches of Greek banks in other countries and branches of banks outside the European Union. The amount required to guarantee the deposits and manage the CECF results from the banks’ contributions and from the State guarantees. However, I will not dwell more on the question of incorporating this directive into this Community directive. I think that this issue has been exhausted during the debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. But I shall briefly put a few questions which have not been answered by the government in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. I hope, Minister, that this time we have a basic answer and that you will respond. Firstly, the bill stipulates that they will be protected from the CEEC of up to EUR 300,000, since this money relates to certain cases of the social sector for a given period. We therefore assume that the guaranteed statement, which you propose - in this case EUR 300,000 - was made after a study. Because, as you know, the sums of EUR 100,000 and below are covered by contributions from credit institutions. Over 100,000 euros, however, are not covered. Secondly, we still have not received an answer as to whether an impact assessment report has been carried out - an impact assessment - in the banking system on the subject we are debating today. Third question: do you know, of course, that the European Central Bank has delivered an opinion on this bill, as it has the institutional obligation to do so for any bill concerning the banking system? In fact, Mr Draghi himself signs it. There are specific questions which we imagine you have answered. We would also like you to confirm that you have responded. We would also like to know what you answered them. Minister, we in the draft law have also tabled an amendment to guarantee the money for the individual pension and savings schemes provided by legally active companies in the country, as well as for group pension saving schemes. The amendment does not conflict with the spirit and scope of the directive. I believe that you, too, will have no objection to ensuring and guaranteeing this money relating to programmes for insurance, pensioning and saving thousands of our fellow citizens. So we expect you to accept it. I now come to the 'other provisions'. I am going beyond the fact that the government once again brings provisions completely irrelevant to the main body of the bill and I move on to the substance of the matter. For the first article, Article 61, I have heard several times from majority members, the government say that the question of excise duty on wine will be reviewed. Indeed, the day before yesterday, we received, Mr Minister, and the reply from the Ministry of Finance, following a written question from many Members of the New Democracy. I read exactly, Mr Tsakalotos, what you said to us: "The Ministry of Finance intends to review some of the measures imposed in 2016. The measures which will be reviewed, including changes in the taxation of farmers.' We would therefore like an answer, Mr Minister, to Article 61. I think that there are important questions here about this answer which I would ask you to confirm. And today, I'd like you to mention the equivalent you've found, because I guess you've already done it. With regard to this article, Article 61 which we are debating today, according to the Central Cooperative Association for Wine Products there is a drop in the cigarette in the wineries that reaches up to 60%. They have placed adequately and convincingly on that winemakers. There is a risk that the arrangement will affect VAT, so we will have a further budget gap, and the income tax will also be affected, but also the undeclared quantity of wine. I would like, Minister, finally an answer to this particular issue, namely the imposition of excise duty on wine and what you will do to withdraw it. The second article we are concerned with is Article 63, which deals with changing taxation to professional pleasure boats. This is an issue, which in particular in tourist areas in the country will make it difficult for many businesses to reduce turnover but also to reduce VAT revenues for the state. Minister, the question - and I asked Mr Alexiadis yesterday in committee - is very simple: has there been any consultation with either SETE or with other bodies to exclude them, namely, the imposition of the luxury tax and what impact will it have on tourism? I imagine that it is not a sloppy one, yet another tax is imposed, but that there will be some kind of study that will prove that the tourist economy is not affected by this article. However, I also see in the report by the General Accounting Office of the State that it is not yet possible to determine the amount of revenue for the State. Have you identified the revenues from this article? So you have some kind of calculation? I now come to the amendments added by the Minister for Culture, which also have nothing to do with the body of the bill. With regard to the amendment on the establishment of an artistic director at the Greek Festival, Mr. Minister, in Article 3 of Law 2936/1998 - if I am not mistaken, you have incorporated it and made it an article 67 of this bill - a precise description of the operation of the "ELLENIKIKI FESTIVAL S.A." and the position of the Director-General and the members of the Board of Directors. We find no reason to set up a new position which will be charged to the State budget for the payment of remuneration for this new position. Indeed, in response to Mr Balta's Minister of Culture, a month ago in a question from a colleague from the opposition, he said that it is not possible for the Minister to define the artistic course of such an organisation. Furthermore, the General Accounting Office of the State also finds possible expenditure, as the possibility of nominating artistic leaders is now given by decision of the Board of Directors of the Hellenic FESTIVAL S.A. We will therefore not vote on Article 67, which was tabled as an amendment by Mr Baltas. With regard to the second amendment you tabled and the proposal for the Director of the National Museum of Contemporary Art, we have no objection and we vote for it. Finally, I would also like to say to you about Article 60 in which we will say 'at present', because we see that you are withdrawing from some committees the Legal Adviser of the State and we think it is not right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Polakis, has the floor to explain an amendment to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Deposit guarantee schemes, deposit guarantee fund and other provisions'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is an amendment which corrects some mistakes in the final wording of the bill of parallel programme from overlooking it. The amendment has five articles. The first article essentially corrects a mistake that is obvious. Instead of paragraph 3 by mistake, it was written that paragraph 2 was repealed. The same is true of Article 2 which deals with doctors' notices in the system, where paragraph 3 was also said to be repealed instead of paragraph 2. Article 3 re-establishes, for the sake of clarity, a provision concerning general practitioners who have taken up positions in agricultural doctors from 1-1-2010. The word 'from' was missing. In Article 4, in fact, two verses concerning the notices of agricultural medicine had been received after the deposit of a legislative improvement. In practical terms, those paragraphs which were removed in the final text shall be added. Article 5 provides that the provisions relating to the mobility of nurses, paramedics and other staff are made more clear, as issues relating to co-service - not only with a spouse in uniform - and the movement of personnel between health services providers and not in general by bodies. That is the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much. We shall proceed with the rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, Mr Karakosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Prior to the referendum of 5 July 2015, with the representatives of SYRIZA-ANEL Government disappeared and the banks closed down, the argument of the Memorandum forces in the political and journalistic spectrum was that without an agreement, i.e. a new memorandum, the country will go bankrupt, while the signature of a new memorandum, instead, the country will be saved. That is what the memorialists said and despite the negative result of the referendum, the Tsipras - Kammenos government adopted their line and proceeded with signing the third in a series of memoranda. Three memorials have been signed, six years of cruel, unfair and unbearable economic measures have passed, and Greece is sinking even further into poverty and chaos! Thousands of our compatriots have killed themselves, many others are sacrificing the absolute dissolution of public health, the unemployed touch two million, the businesses close one after the other, the public property is sold out against a lentil plate and the productive forces of the place are led with mathematical accuracy to extinction! But both the government and the opposition have the courage to claim that the third memorandum saved the country. What's the truth? The memorials rescued a deep corrupt and intertwined with the political banking system. And for this to happen, you sold out the sacrifices of the Greek people for decades, leading him to absolute impoverishment. In the not so far 2012, the country's current Prime Minister said: “To exclude the insurance funds from the PSI process, otherwise the breakdown of the country's insurance system will occur.” The PSI is evolving into a great theft of the assets of the insurance funds and a nice portfolio for the European Central Bank and the bond holders who will win this process.’ Then Mr. Tsipras was chief of the opposition officer. It is worth reminding us here of the essential element: According to the Bank of Greece, the 16.2 billion who were tired of the funds' reserves in order to complete the PSI in March and April 2012, were considered as an intra-government debt and therefore did not contribute at all to reducing public debt. That is to say, the sacrifice of the economies of the insured, the workers and the pensioners, imposed on them by the government at the time, cannot be regarded as a patriotic task, but on the contrary, it constitutes the stumbling-up of a criminal act to the detriment of the Greek people. And we come in 2016 with the same man as the president of government. Draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Deposit guarantee schemes, (incorporation of Directive 2014/49/EU), Deposit and Investment Guarantee Fund and other provisions’. The bill, which the CECE defines as the sole body of the Greek deposit guarantee system and also the competent resolution fund of credit institutions, provides that the limit of the protection of 100,000 euros is valid for all depositors in the same credit institution, irrespective of number of deposits, currency and place of deposit within the European Union. Deposits that are proven by specific activities serving social objectives are given exceptionally increased protection up to an additional limit of EUR 300,000 for a limited period of time. In particular, the amount of EUR 100,000 is defined as the maximum coverage of the total deposits of each deposit institution. However, according to the bill, there are depositors who are not eligible for their protection, such as specific public authorities. In particular, the provisions of the draft law provide for the exclusion from the protection and guarantee of the CECF of those categories of deposits: The deposits of the CECF, the deposits of the Social Security Funds and of the Professional Insurance Funds, the deposits of the public authorities, the deposits of the credit institutions on their own account, the own funds of the credit institutions, the deposits of the transactions for which a final criminal conviction has been issued for money laundering has been issued, the deposits of the financial institutions, the deposits of the investment firms on their own account, the deposits of the collective investment undertakings, the deposits of the insurance undertakings whose identity has not been verified by the holder or beneficiary. In simple terms, with practices that strongly refer to the grand robbery of the PSI, the left-wing government, who once bailed against the great theft of the insurance funds, is today coming to offer these funds as a horrific one to the fingernails of international loan sharks. We will stand by Article 58, which could well be described as a photographic device. Paragraph 1 amends the corresponding paragraph 2 of Article 23 of Law 2778/99 on SPS so that the period for admission to the Athens Stock Exchange reaches twenty-four months and thirty-six months an extension by the Capital Market Commission. Real estate investment companies are carrying out regular amortisations on their movable and immovable property in accordance with the applicable income tax provisions. By way of derogation from the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 22 of this Law, immovable property investment firms shall not depreciate in respect of the immovable property referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 22 of this Law. At first, when the institution of GNIs came to our country, there was a 12-month deadline for entry into the Stock Exchange and essentially concerned the banks. The real estate portfolio was mainly buildings with the banks’ branches. What were they gaining? Instead of the bank holding the property and paying the property tax, the subsidiary of the OLAF had it. That's how she paid her the rent, so she had an exit that was reducing her tax. The SNE would save property taxes, save income tax from rent and return the money to the parent bank as a dividend, without paying any tax again. In other words, the bank paid a rent to itself, while saving all the taxes on the property of the common mortals. These are SNEs and that is their supposed development role. No new investment in any new real estate. So, what's going on? It's just a virtual change in their ownership, with only motive to avoid tax evasion. At this point I would like to remind you once again of what happened with the last recapitalisation of banks, the third in turn, which took place on the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The participation of the Financial Stability Fund in the four systemic banks, before and after the increase in equity, is as follows: National Bank: from 57.2% the participation of the Financial Stability Fund has fallen to 41%. Piraeus Bank: since 66.9% participation has fallen to 29%. Eurobank: from 35.4% to 3%. Alpha Bank: since 66.2% fell to 11%. That is, the Financial Stability Fund, invested 40 billion in 2013 and about 5-5.5 billion in 2015, currently controls about 21% of the shares of the four systemic banks. Indeed, according to expert and conditional stock exchange estimates, in order to obtain the Financial Stability Fund to recover 100% of the EUR 45.5 billion it has invested to date in Greek banks, the bank's capitalisation should reach the unprecedented level of EUR 225 billion. And all that happened to rescue is supposed to be banks whose control international speculators now own. The Golden Dawn again points to the strongest tone that banks, political parties and the media are the triangle of interlocutory, which maintains through memoranda its provocative privileges at all times against the Greek people. The immunity of the banks continues against Greek taxpayers and never against the indebted and obsolete parties and media. The impunity of the bankers was legislated by the Left Government with one single goal: The parties of the anti-constitutional arch and the median establishment continue to deceive the Greek people and with the help of the banks to seize the Greeks. For these reasons, the Golden Dawn is voting against this bill. Ultimately, at the time when the House relegates to the banks, our homeland and the people are squeezing at the expense of the invasive invasion of illegal immigrants. With a government of operetta, which has the courage to characterise the murder of the Greek nation as a patriotic duty, the Golden Dawn proclaims to the highest tone: the country has been occupied by illegal immigrants and very soon Greeks will be a minority within their homeland. Golden Dawn requires that the Armed Forces immediately close the border and stop the invasion of illegal foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr Caracosta. Mr Alexiadis has the floor to make a clarification on Article 63.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. In order to ensure that no time is lost from the next speeches, as has been done before, on Article 63, and because there is certainly a bad wording in the original version of the law in 2010, and now, I would like to clarify this: Luxemburg was imposed on vessels a luxury tax. Professional vessels were excluded from this tax. This tax, (i.e. the luxury tax on the purchase or import of luxury vessels, pleasure boats), was abolished in 2014. However, the exclusion of professional vessels, which had been legislated since 2010, was not abolished. I say this again: the luxury tax was imposed in 2010 on pleasure boats on the market or on importation, with the exception of professional vessels. In 2014 the tax was abolished. However, the exclusion of professional vessels has not been abolished. We are now coming - with a practical legislative improvement - and we are abolishing this exception, since the tax had already been abolished. So, to close, there is no luxury tax on pleasure boats, whether professional or private.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u83	Mr Arvanitides, a special speaker of the PASOK-DMAR Democratic Association, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I believe that your remark corrects all of what has been done with Article 63, but after Mr Polakis' position, we are likely to have a problem with Greeks. Every 15 days we change, every day we change. Let us be careful a little more because the accuracy of the legislative work is, I think, very important and I hope Mr Paulakis will not bring about something which changes what has changed, and so on. This draft law incorporates in our legislation Directive 2014/49 of the European Parliament and of the Council on deposit-guarantee schemes and replaces or repeals provisions of Law 3726/2009 on the Deposit Guarantee Fund which constitute the existing protection framework. The CECE is and remains the sole management body of the guarantee system for bank and investment services. With this bill, it retains its character as supervised by the Ministry of Economic Law and its purpose is: First, the payment of compensation to depositors of credit institutions who are unable to fulfil their obligations. Secondly, the payment of compensation to investors - customers of credit institutions who are incapable of fulfilling their obligations. Thirdly, the financing of the resolution of credit institutions. The CECE continues to be divided into three distinct parts, the deposit-covering arm to cover depositors, the investment cover component to cover investors and the resolution component to finance the respective parties. Each of the three arms has separate chapters. This draft law regulates issues relating to the functioning of the two arms, i.e. the deposit-covering and investment-covering arm. The issues related to the third part, the resolution arm, have already been settled by Law No.4335/2015 and are complemented by these regulations. At the same time, the provisions of Law4340 and Law4346/2015 enabled a loan from the CFSF to be granted to the CFSF, while the provisions of Law4354/2015 allowed for a loan from the deposit-covering part of the resolution component. I am referring to this in order to have a more general picture of the operation of the Fund. I will now turn to more practical issues directly related to the citizens. The Directive protects most of the depositors by setting a harmonised level of coverage of EUR 100 000 per credit institution, thereby maintaining the principle of a harmonised amount per depositor, and reintroducing EUR 30 000 as the upper limit of the coverage of all the claims of each investor. The main innovations in the directive are: firstly, the reduction in the deadline for payment of compensation. Secondly, the abolition of certain categories with the exception of deposits and the introduction of new ones. Thirdly, the care to ensure that deposits resulting from certain transactions or serving certain social or other purposes are protected above the EUR 100 000 threshold for a given period. Fourthly, the express recognition of the possibility for depositors to bring an action against the CECF in order to ensure their rights if they are entitled to compensation. That's all in the first place. Let's go see more specifically what the bill includes. Minister, I have raised ten questions at the two meetings of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and, unfortunately, I have not received any reply. Today we have just received the answer to Article 63 on the imposition of a luxurious tax on vessels. I hope that you will reply to the House today. In addition, I would like to point out that we are still waiting for the legislative improvements which you announced at the first meeting of the committee. The first question: is it mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the bill that there is care for deposits serving social objectives in order to protect up to EUR 300,000 for six months? At the same time, there is provision that the State is not eligible for the protection of its deposits, whereas Article 8 states that the deposits of the social and occupational insurance funds are exempted from the protection. Since during the previous period dozens of operators throughout the country have transferred their reserves to the bank of Greece you need to clarify whether or not these amounts are covered and to what status they fall under. Question two: The cost of financing the Deposit and Investment Guarantee Fund should in principle be borne by the credit institutions themselves. Does this cost the bank or the depositor? If it is the banks to transfer the costs to the depositors, we should know that. I say this, Minister, because you have made a great deal of reference to the Committee on the trends that exist at European level regarding the reduction of risk and its division. We should finally know who is paying this procedure. Third question: The directive provides that, irrespective of the exceptions, the deposit of individual pension schemes and occupational pension schemes for small and medium-sized enterprises and local authorities with an annual budget of less than EUR 500,000 can benefit from the protection of the law. This possibility has not been included in this draft law. You need to explain why. Question IV: Chapter IV of the draft law on the ‘investment cover’ section states that protection excludes investments by central government and the LAGs and not the entire public. Here too, I think, further clarification is needed. I now come to the other provisions of the draft law on matters within the competence of the ministries of finance and culture. As I told you in committee, these provisions have nothing to do with this bill and they should come for discussion and vote in a separate procedure. I hope we do not continue with the same process. This is proof today of the changes and clarifications and the legislative correction arrangements in the correction of Mr Polakis. In Article 54 we express a reservation until you provide clarification. You must explain to us why the application of European legislation to mergers of public limited liability companies that implement remedial measures is excluded. In Article 56, likewise. Paragraph 2 refers to the elimination of charges to consumers for the use of a particular payment instrument. You need to explain to us what this instrument refers to and what these charges relate to. Similarly, Article 57 must be answered because it is reduced by two members and the composition of the unpaid strategy committee and policies aimed at dealing with money laundering and terrorist financing is changed. We say no to Article 63, but it no longer makes any difference after the clarifications. We express a reservation on Article 64. By this Article, the Minister of Finance shall be authorised to determine the amount of a security to ensure that the charges suspended in cases where processing undertakings hold an approved economic operator’s certificate are collected. The wording is very general and does not mention the criteria on the basis of which you will decide, Minister. I think there should be clarification here too. In Articles 55 to 58, from 62 to 65 and we are positive. On the contrary, we are voting against Articles 66 and 67, which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and have come as amendments to the committee. In particular, Article 66 gives an extension of the term of office of the director of the National Museum of Contemporary Art and provides for a public international competition to be explored in the future to fill the post. Although the provision of an international tender is firstly positive, there are problems: firstly, the period of extension of the director's term is very long, secondly, the pending procedures referred to in the explanatory statement are not accompanied by a clear timetable for knowing whether or not this great extension is justified. Thirdly, the provision for international competition is in disparity with the second amendment of Article 67, where the definition of the artistic director at "ELLENIKIKI FESTIVAL S.A." is made by a ministerial decision. In particular, this article establishes a position of artistic director whose choice has already been made by the Minister and will simply be validated by the adoption of a ministerial decision. Our disagreement, Minister, lies not in the face, but in the process. There should normally be an international competition here too. Because I think that the message emitted by there being two standards and two standards and all that blurredness with which we choose people in positions of responsibility is irresponsible and simply what suits us. Ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned in committee, the incorporation of this directive comes when the confidence of depositors in the Greek banking system is historically low. And how should it not be, when the amateur and the ideas of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government have created a climate of insecurity and uncertainty in Greek society, so that the unprecedented departure of the deposits leads to the imposition of capital controls and the collapse of the real economy. The recovery of deposits in December is not enough, since this performance has been the lowest in November 2003. It is, I believe, clear that if the real economy is not given a basis, and if the government does not stop echoing the market and the citizens with all-out moves in tax and insurance, even the best deposit guarantee system will not be able to restore the confidence of depositors in the financial system. And, of course, in order to have deposits, ladies and gentlemen, and saving, the country should create wealth. We must explain to young children who come out in a nonexistent labour market what they can do to create and live as normal citizens of a normal country. If you do not do this seriously, with a programme and clear objectives, young people will continue to leave the country even more massively, and then we will have nothing to manage but our misery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Vardalis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, mentioned the difficulties of the government to complete the assessment provided for in the third memorandum. We are all in a hurry, apart from the government, and many more, to obtain a certificate of good implementation of the anti-grassroots policy provided for in the third memorandum. You are in a hurry to find warm money either from the instalments you are expecting or from the debt regulation, to give the big capital to invest, to reinitiate the economy, but workers should be aware that the assessment means that they need to proceed unnecessarily to the implementation of the new anti-insurance law and other prerequisites for anti-grass measures. That means getting through the evaluation. Beyond the difficulties, which have to do with what the Minister said, and which actually express the most general contradictions to the prospect of the Eurozone, there are difficulties in mobilising the working class, the small and medium-sized farmers, the self-employed professionals, the scientists, the great massage and the up-to-date forms of struggle, solidarity, the duration of these struggles which have contributed to delaying the submission and vote of the government proposal on insurance. The closure of the evaluation, and indeed as quickly as possible, means that all these anti-grassroots measures must be passed and the road must be opened, especially for others, for new anti-grassroots measures. And that is how all the parties, who voted for the memorandum, despite the individual differences they have, agree on how these anti-grassroots measures are to be implemented. The only hope, in the view of the JRC, lies in the development, massification and orientation of the struggles of the people's strata and, first of all, the working class against the main opponent, who is no other than the action of business groups to secure their profits. The escalation of such a struggle is the only hope that there will be polemic racing solutions, which will, of course, pave the way for another way of organising the economy with working people's power. Ladies and gentlemen, as the debate has evolved so far and in the committees and here, with the agreement of all the parties to the Euromoney with the directive and the specific bill that we are discussing, but also with the position of the Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, the JRC's assessments of the role that this directive has to play, in general, the system of deposit and investment guarantee throughout the European Union, as well as the conflicting interests that are expressed here in the European Union. What you are primarily interested in is growth, support, the armouring of the financial system in your attempt to tackle the outburst of an economic capitalist crisis in the future. You claim that your purpose is to shield any popular statements left after your anti-popular tax policy, HISPIA, and the various carpets, wage and pension cuts. This, first of all, cannot be done by following the same policy, which is now ruining the lives of the people's strata. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at various statements by officials of the European Union, but also at the decisions of its institutions, you will see that the creation of a European Banking Guarantee Fund is a crucial priority in order to stimulate the economy of the euro area. The Eurogroup at its meeting on Monday 8-11-2015 includes the security of deposit guarantee and investment at the pillars of the Banking Union together with the Single Supervisory Mechanism, the Single Resolution Mechanism and the Resolution Fund. We underline that, it is a pillar of the Banking Union. The above decisions and statements are the real pursuit of business groups, which are only to strengthen confidence in the financial system and to support banks, which make use of the popular savings and the money of the people's populations to constantly support investment in capital. They are concerned with the issue, because capitalist economies are diffusing themselves, particularly in the European Union and even more in the euro area. This assessment, indirectly but clearly, was admitted to the committee during the debate, but also today, Minister Tsakalotos. What else can be the intelligence of subjection "if there is no exploitation of the worker, it will mean that he is unemployed" and "the same is true of the banks, because the impact on the working class when the banks collapse is dramatically more"? Mr Chakalotos told the committee all this. The Minister is missing today, but he should be aware that with the policy of the government you are trying to take out the system, to support, to block the radicalization of the consciences of the workers and the people. Now you do not even cynically claim that you are doing all of this because you want to save the workers from the worst. Indeed, Minister, the factory is necessary for the worker to have a job. But you should be aware that the factory owner, the capitalist, is not necessary in the production process, can be produced without him. That's why you're pulling out sorrows when you hear the slogan: "You can work without the bosses." What do you say to workers on the substance? You tell them: If you want not to get worse, you must live with exploitation. And not just that. You are also telling them that they should support their employer and, together, support the good banker who gives them loans. Help, you tell them, get over the system of his problems, get stronger, close whatever cracks this presents. Why? Because otherwise, you will pay it even more expensively. That, Minister, is not what you call a prototype. Employees have seen this work before. Those words have been heard before. For years now, this logic has been supported by social democracy. Eventually, in copying you are very good. Ladies and gentlemen, as a party we are studying the developments in the European Union, the competitions that are developing in general, but also the specific issue that we are discussing. In November 2015, the European Commission proposed the establishment of a European Deposit Guarantee Fund, which would protect euro area depositors, a pan-European, i.e. a system that will be fully operational since 2024, gradually replacing national funds, starting from 2017. I would like to remind you that a number of issues and this issue have been raised by our party since the first committee meeting. In the committee, but also today, the Minister presented in an elegant way, I would say, the different opinions and the contradictions that are being developed on this issue. And I say stylishly because he dealt with this matter by, in our opinion, seeing only the surface of things. Thus, he spoke of two approaches to the risk: "First, reduce the risk or divide it?" In fact, he told us that the government's view is that they should both go together. Having a little on the surface, every goodwill will find that these contradictions are, above all, about who will pay, what part of the capital will lose and what will win. For example, a European Fund for the Guarantee of Deposits and Investment means putting money into such a fund. This money will be put by the banks from depositors' money. So far, however, nothing has happened. And that's because sharing the risk means they're all gonna have to make money. Not all of them, however, have taken the same risk. That is why there are strong competition between banks for the amount of funding for these funds from each bank, while they are not willing, each one separately, to give money that will take another bank that needs consolidation. In fact, it is an expression of the competitions of the monopolies of each Member State, in particular the strong ones, together with the necessary management mix for each economy, since others are the needs of the French, Italian, Spanish, Greek and other, of course, the German economy, depending on the location of the crisis and the depth that has hit that economy, the existence of small or large deficits and state debts. If we see, then, under the surface, it will be easy to see that huge economic interests are hidden under it. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also not forget how depositors face their financial capital. When a person deposits money to a financial institution, he becomes an automatic lender of the bank and is therefore considered an investor, which means he takes a risk, that is, he riskes a part or a whole amount of that money. Therefore, if a bank or an entire banking system have a problem, some of the resources necessary to solve these problems may also come from deposits. So no one should sleep alone in the event of a problem. It is not at all unlikely that, in order to save the bank that enters a liquidation or resolution process, depositors of less than EUR 100 000 will be invited to contribute. Tell us, within these frameworks, who can guarantee people's statements, when, for example in our country, the funds available from the EEK, according to a statement by the President of the EEK to the committee, are more than 3 billion, when we know that the deposits exceed 160 billion? You are all aware that this amount, in no case is sufficient in the immediate case of a serious accident. Another major issue arising from the transposition into the legislation of this European Union directive is the exclusion of social security funds, as well as state agencies and businesses, from the system of guaranteeing bank deposits. This provision broadly opens up the possibility of haircuts, even from the first euro, to the detriment of deposits held by insurance funds and insurance institutions. It is about lifting even the minimum protection provided by the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the advertised protection of deposits under EUR 100,000 is precarious and aims to reflect the important possibility of a future haircut for all deposits, including those under EUR 100,000. In Greece, 90% of the deposits are under 10,000 euros. A future rescue of the banks, where the guaranteed deposits will not be sufficient to cover the black hole, so that the emergency clauses, which carry the weight of rescue to the backs of hundreds of thousands of popular savers, are activated, are activated. We all know that a haircut decision is not announced. Therefore, the real aim of such a decision is to convince peoples of the safety of their deposits and the haircut to fall on their heads as lightning in hunger. Ultimately, the damage of the capitalist crisis pays them the popular layers either as taxpayers or as folk savers. The conclusion to be made by the workers, the popular strata, is that anyway the debate on the so-called rescue of banks and the guarantee of deposits is not about their own interests, but about managing the crisis for the benefit of the bourgeoisie and their competitive interests. Experience, however, has shown that the more capitalist antagonisms become, the greater the attack by capitalists on workers. It is revealed that capitalism in the monopolies' era, what it had to give, gave it. He has nothing more to give to the workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for a minute. That is why we need socialisation of the monopolies and labour - the people's power. For all these reasons, it is clear that the JRC will vote against this draft law. Mr Minister, we have tabled three amendments and we would like your opinion on them, because so far you have not said a word. The first amendment responds to an intensified problem facing workers, farmers, self-employed people. I am referring to the persecutions and convictions experienced by all those who fought against anti-popular politics. And you are all aware that these mobilisations took place in the framework of trade union activity, with the aim of defending their rights, to live with a decent income, not to be denounced from their land, not to put a padlock on their shops. The second concerns the workers of cooperative banks, who have been put into liquidation, proposing a regulation that has been applied to the employees of ATE before, but also to the workers of the Peloponnese Cooperative Bank, whose licence has recently been revoked. And the third addition relates to Article 61 of the bill that we are debating - I end, Mr President - the abolition of excise duty on wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of Parliament, since they participated in the educational programme "1974, the Rehabilitation of Democracy", 20 students and two teachers from the 1st Painian High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the party The Potami, Mr. Theocharis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. We should also thank Mr Tsakalotos - he is not here - for giving us an update on the information he has had the opportunity to make in the European Parliament and the debate on the issues of negotiation. He told us about the problems that the International Monetary Fund is presenting our country and does not complete the evaluation. She told us that the government is waiting in its headphone for when she's coming. He's optimistic that'll be soon. But he avoided giving dates. Mr Diaselblum did the same before, and he avoided giving dates and even told us a little bit more clearly. "There is no progress," he said after yesterday's dinner. I wish Mr. Dieselbloom was wrong, but I have the feeling that Mr. Chakalotos isn't telling us everything. What the Greek people said, however, would deserve to hear it, because Mr Tsakalotos said so clearly in the European Parliament, is that even if the debt were to give it to us all, again without the structural changes in the economy and the reforms we would make a new same debt very soon. Welcome to the world of realism. You're completely canceling SYRIZA's party. How do you leave him a member of SYRIZA, Mr. Manda, I'm not sure. You have to do something. Is it possible for Mr Tsakalotos to cancel all the rhetoric of SYRIZA abroad? What does he think? He doesn't think we'd find out here in our country? Only in Estonia will he say that? Be careful, because I see a complete cancellation of the rhetoric, but above all - we have heard it from the Prime Minister's lips - you are, unfortunately. The other day he told us that those who are lucky and have an income of 30,000-35 000 euros have to pay more than that. That's a complete demonization of value. They are not worthy people who manage five things in their lives, but they are just lucky! Of course, luck always helps, but it is not possible that excellence is retaliatory to conclude that success is the result of luck and not value. The value in this country must finally take its place if we want to get out of this crisis. After all, the root of the word crisis is the same. Without judging people, without evaluating them, we are not going to get out of this crisis, because to get out of the crisis, you have to judge and see. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, although it is not one of those that gathers publicity lights, is extremely important. This is because it is another part of European banking integration, with the aim of applying common rules to the financial market a common framework for the control and distribution of credit risk across the European Union. Banking integration, which has made considerable progress in recent years as a result of the crisis, is essential for the survival of the monetary union itself. It is also one of the successes of the Greek European Presidency before 2014. The Finance Minister in our committee spoke about the different approaches in Europe - he told us a moment ago - about the guarantees of deposits. On the one hand, it is the most conservative view that we must first reduce the overall risk and then share it with the 'progressive' that reduction and sharing of risk must be carried out at the same time. It is clear that our country, at the present juncture, is favoured by the second approach, although it is not certain that the banking risks are gathered in our country. The share of risks can also be spread from Germany, with problems in its banking industry, but also from Italy and to our country, to other countries. The processes and negotiations on the creation of a single European deposit guarantee mechanism have already begun in this glorious field for Greece and the government, so that it can create appropriate alliances so that the country's interests can be promoted. And here, as elsewhere, Potami plays its constructive role. The next financial crisis will hopefully not be our concern, but it will have to find Europe armored and with uniform rules to deal with the problems. The more we share the risk, the more certainly the next financial crisis will concern us, because things are more connected. Let us not forget, therefore, that more interconnectivity, federalization in one sector leads to the need for federalization in other sectors. This is because, unfortunately, well or badly, the Member States and the banking sector are interconnected. In other words, when we take such positions, we should also be forced to take more federal positions in budgetary matters. More reason, that is, in Frankfurt for the Greek banking system means more reason in Berlin for the Greek financial system. So Mr. Tsakalotus, with Mr. Shoeble hand - hand. This is the position of SYRIZA government. It's not bad. What is the landscape today in which this bill comes to be implemented? We are already in the ninth month of the Capital Controls, which, when imposed, our government officials assured us that they will be lifted by the end of 2015. Mrs Katseli, which we heard in committee, told us that capital controls would be lifted in March. He said the day before yesterday: 'two years and put it on'. In October, Mrs Gerovasili and Mr Drasakis confirmed that the lifting of capital controls would take place in the first quarter of 2016, as Mrs Katseli said, that is what ends now and in December they transferred their removal for the first half of 2016. Uh, by then, we'll see what happens. At the moment, however, the banking system is still severely injured by the five-year crisis and by the improper, even criminal, that the government is still dealing with these issues. Despite the rise in their stock exchange prices over the last few days, losses on bank shares, compared to recapitalisation prices, continue to be of the order of 30% to 60%. The uncertainty and insecurity that depositors, natural persons and businesses feel are confirmed by the course of the deposits to the Greek banks. If these are not lifted, capital controls cannot be lifted. In June, when the capital controls were imposed, the deposits were only up to 122 billion. In January 2016 it was exactly the same amount, a sign that the banks' crisis is still here. The President of the Hellenic Banks Association told us, as I said before, that we need two or three years to restore the banking system to normality. This time seems unreal. Regularity must come back with coordinated moves by a serious government, much faster and your responsibilities here are great. I come to the individual provisions of the bill. We support the existence of the CEEC, of course, as an independent body operating for the benefit of the public interest, but on the basis of market criteria. It was a good thing that the President of the CECE pointed out that the supervision of the CEC by the Sub-IK has so far been discreet and that relations were without problems. We hope that will continue. Moreover, people who are involved in investment know that underneath should always write "the past is not a guide for the future". Is that right? He might have been fine with the previous finance ministers, not to be with the next one. We do not, of course, see how this is compatible with Article 48(2), where it is provided that the Minister of Finance may cease to be a member of the CEEC, and indeed for any reason. The point of reflection is also for us the cyclicality we see in the placement of the assets of the TSE, as most of them, 77%, are in deposits with the financial institutions of the country and the rest of the Bank of Greece. We also believe that in the current conditions prevailing on the Greek banking and securities market, it should be specified in Article 39 more specifically what we mean by the term 'low risk' in the placements of the CEEC's assets. So, what do we say? We say that most of TSE's money right now is located in banks, which if they collapse and have no money, with this money, which has to be found from the downfalling banks, it has to pay the guaranteed depositors. If the banks had it in the first place, they would. That is why the money must go away and go to the Bank of Greece, but the Bank of Greece tells us the bill that they will go in 2030. Then, given the crisis, it might be too late. The draft law could also deal with more practical, concrete problems. For example, Article 42 provides that in the event of an institution leaving or blocking from the CECF, the first informs the depositors within one month, and the same deadline applies in cases of online banking. However, we believe that for reasons of protection of the depositor and taking into account the technological potential, electronic information could take place extremely quickly. A week is not a problem. So you understand that there are problems. As far as the Bank of Greece is concerned, we must not overlook the interconnection between the banks and the public. And that must be cut off. When the money goes to the Bank of Greece, they should not be invested in change with the Greek State. It's not a changeover investment. Anyway, they're deposited in a stream. They should not be subjected to a change, because in the event of a collapse of the public and leading banks to collapse, the CEC cannot, obviously, guarantee the depositors' deposits. These issues need to be solved, because only then do we put the systemic risk right in the box and so it can't cause more damage. We are opposed to the usual practice of the government to introduce unreasonable provisions. In this bill over 20% of the provisions are foreign to the directive. There are customs provisions, arrangements for the Legal Council of State, two amendments by the Ministry of Culture, which we really do not understand why they are introduced under this draft law. It is welcome that Mr Alexiadis has explained to us that this exception is legal and that that is good. Of course, Mr Paulakis rose up a moment ago and took the floor he put us in an amendment correcting the very earlier bill. It's incomprehensible. First of all, it's a practice that you've been up all along in 2015. Each bill of the SYRIZA Government corrected the previous bill, which the majority of SYRIZA had introduced and voted. This was the case throughout 2015. You had stopped, I had taken a breath and said that at last this practice stopped and today it starts again in 2015's footsteps. There are too many things starting to look like 2015. Unfortunately, this is a sign of incompetence, such as a sign of incompetence is the fact that Mr Spirtz leaves the Aegean islands without barren lines, without a competition, which takes six months, according to Community directives, otherwise it is illegal, for the proclamation of the arid lines, of air connections between the islands of our country in the Aegean. Instead, it makes an unprecedented process of a few hours, completely illegal, in which it invites specific companies to offer offers without giving them any criteria, without publicity, with complete opacity. It is a year Minister, Mr Spirtzis, and at the moment, after he makes this tender, who will normally swallow up - because other companies that were not called in this tender will go to this competition and block it - will leave the islands cut off. At the moment, with such a situation in both the refugee and all matters, it will leave the islands out. It should be ashamed and should resign as it has currently brought the Aegean islands into this situation. Finally, we have the introduction of a new way of legislating by the government, which is unprecedented. At least it can be considered original. Paragraph 2 of Article 54 excludes financial corporations from the application of European Directives, which have not yet been incorporated. We're going through the exception. Mr Alexiadis has improved here with a legislative improvement and removed an exception to a tax which does not exist, but introduces an exception to the incorporation of directives which have not been incorporated. It is a preventive exception, Article 54(2). Financial corporations are excluded from the application of two Directives. Ladies and gentlemen, we are positive about incorporating Directive 2014/49 into national legal order. We are very concerned, because the situation in the banking market is still bad, the prospects for the recovery of the economy still weak. The government must do its duty to restore stability and to restore, gradually, the credibility of the Greek banks. And in order to do this, we must finally and quickly complete the evaluation and see how she agrees on what she has been signing the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr Theochari. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take note of the fact that the Intergroup parliamentary committee on the claim of German debts set up under Rules 44 and 45 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, and for which Parliament's plenary has set a deadline for submitting its report on 31 March 2016, calls for an extension of its operation until 30 June 2016. In accordance with a Decision of the Conference of Presidents, the work of the Commission shall be extended until 30 June 2016. They have all agreed on the Intergroup. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u90	The House unanimously agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u91	The cause has not been explained to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u92	The cause has been discussed in the Intergroup. Obviously, not all the evidence has been completed. So the House unanimously agreed. Mr Kammenos, special speaker of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. The debate has taken place for days in the committee responsible. The Independent Greeks have made our comments. It is a directive that is natural following the Community directive and regularity, which must govern the Greek banking system after the banking integration, which came into force on 4 November 2014 under the Single Monitoring Mechanism, SSM, who is next to the European Central Bank and has consolidated the hundreds of twenty-three system banks in Europe, with the ultimate aim of controlling, clarifying, common procedures, common laws and the same rules of capital, so that the own funds, deposits, lending, can be checked - if you like - by the same laws and the same people and at the same time secure the deposits of European depositors in the euro area, up to the amount of EUR 100,000 per bank and per bank. What is happening in Europe is this: I will tell you something, which I do not know how many of you know. I know that, because of my previous life in space. Probably many of you, having listened to my suggestion, that the mechanism for unification, the same rules, the same laws, transparency, the purity and regularity of the European banking system and the safety of capital has been made, be aware of the issue of Deutsche Bank. I shall mention this in order to see what inequality in the European Union and inequality of treatment is and I will be clear. Deutsche Bank has been accused - not twenty years ago, a year ago - of money laundering of six billion dollars with Russian customers. He has been accused by the United States Capital Market Commission and this has not been called into question. It has been charged three and a half years ago with unequal treatment, together with English banks, and underground agreements on interbank interest rates, libor, with which, since it was made by the banks among themselves, they were able to win them with internal information and bankrupt investors, natural and legal persons. It was a huge scandal involving English banks and Deutsche Bank. Deutsche Bank has also been accused - I am talking about the charges against it - of making, fixing out of markets and outside the price table of products from the commodities, whether they are food or metals. He's been accused of that, too, and he has a fine. What's weird about it? Beyond the fines, blamed for the number of two in active bank in Europe and the number one in deposits - the first in active amount is BNP, the French - the German Securities Committee, the previous day - pay attention, ladies and gentlemen, while all this is running in court and bringing actions to Deutsche Bank from America for billions of dollars - decided to stop the investigation and consider it to be an end. What incident? To finish interchange rates and to cover product prices. He has not yet said that it is the end of the product, in relation to the unleashing of the Russians, because the American Securities and Market Commission has practised it. At the same time, it freed the President of Deutsche Bank from those years, who has circumvented all international rules on legality and transparency, at least in my own description, I want to be kind to him - and at the same time he has also found a job - I do not want to say to whom - in a financial institution. At the same time, his British colleagues, who were in the same scandal as Deutsche Bank, ceased their work and were forbidden to work in the industry for at least five years. And they're also indicted, some people have been in jail. That's what happened in Great Britain. In Germany, the Protestants, the people who want to put us - and put us - in a mold and have built the European Central Bank in Berlin - in Berlin have control over the systemic banks - they themselves are stopping every check at Deutsche Bank. This, to the knowledge of colleagues, is to know that we follow the laws and rules. But they should all be followed. Speaking of laws and rules, the Deposit Guarantee Fund has a very important role, as do similar funds throughout the euro area. The purpose of the fund is specific. It has come out of the FEK, there is an earlier law than in 2009 and since 2011, which says the purpose, sources of revenue, use and reasons if funds from what banks put into the deposit insurance account in the various funds need to be used. Here I would like to make a very brief retrogression of two minutes, because the Greek depositor must not be concerned about the consumer for any reason. I would remind you that more than fourteen banks have been closed - merged, that is, their VAT has left. We have bad banks with a capital height of more than EUR 9,000,000, which are slowly cleared up by liquidators. I mean, between you and me, the banks closed down, they were absorbed...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u94	They're sorry, they're not closed. It's the merger, and it's the closest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Comrade, you're right. I have no problem opening a dialogue. Yeah, they merged. But be careful, in fact, they've closed the VDU. Let's just say: someone who testified to a bank shut down his VAT system. That bank was divorced. We will see as the government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks what we will do about the process of good and bad banks and what has been done with the bad banks" and what the clearer does with the files of billions of bad banks and what's in there for extinguishing. The depositors, however, had no danger. The risk to any depositor is to close one day and get a locker on a Monday morning, as usual, since it is not within the weekend without any warning. This has never happened and it will never happen. This has not happened in Europe as well. I would remind Dexia, who was the first bank with problems, and many other Italian and Spanish banks. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] But here, what has happened in Greece with the TEC? The CECF has a specific purpose and use of the money that banks give and participate in it to guarantee deposits. It has been used for other reasons. In 2011, on his government, the friend, Mr. Venizelos, took 862,000 euros from the TEK's reserves and 450,000 euros as well. In total, it took EUR 1,312,000 of the EKE's money, the deposit guarantee, and gave it to recapitalise bad banks, firstly, and the Post Bank. In other words, we got the guarantees the Greek depositors had. We didn't have a way - I imagine - the money proved after the audit that they were missing from the bank's assets and liabilities and from the bank's own funds to cover those shareholders, who are for prison - was in prison and went out. They had no property to get their money to put them in, neither mobile nor immove. We have not seized to date a single euro from any one of them. Mr Laurentiadis has voluntarily returned, as I remember, 51,000 euros that was an invoice. But fraud was over 900,000,000 euros, for example in Proton. We haven't taken a single euro. What did the PASOK government do, Mr. Venizelos? He took EUR 1,312,000 from the Deposit Guarantee Fund and gave it for a recapitalisation of the «Proton Bank and the Post Bank». This will come at some point - and I will bring it, because I have too much information - in the House to check the reason, the way in which the lending took place, the use of funds, and whether or not there was another solution, and whether this money was repaid and how. Because - I do not need to explain technical terms - they have taken Merrill Lynch bonds with an end in 2026. In 2026 the bonds expire. But we need to see the loan relationships. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What does that mean? That means we got the money, but the deposits weren't at risk. I am in favour of the fact that the testimonies are never in danger. It's hard to risk the testimonies. And we should not be politicizing and plundering on it. But it needs control of the House, of all the parties, to see why we took the money from the Treasury and gave it to a private bank, which had been closed and made a bad bank. At the same time, the banking system has been destroyed in Greece in too many ways. The first way? How the deposits were not lost when - the value of the shares in the Financial Stability Fund - we borrowed and EUR 37,000,000,000, ultimately from EUR 48,000,000, 000, we put them to recapitalise the banks, to which we had spent EUR 37,876 billion. Euros? Mr. Venizelos had done this again, I imagine. He cut 33.8 billion all banks. We borrowed the equivalent in EFSF bonds to recapitalise them. When we trimmed them, until the funds came to be recapitalised, the deposits didn't run any risk. I'm filing the official paper. It was 38.7 billion from the PSI to the banks. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We got the loans. Nothing happened to the statements. They loaned us bonds, not cash - Regling says it, I say it for years - we put the bonds of very high value into the banks' assets. We recapitalized them. We borrowed these bonds, and at the same time, since we made the funds that Mr. Venizelos haired with an equivalent loan to the Greek people, because the others, our good friends, didn't, because it wasn't as volunteering as the PSI imagines, we reached in 2014 to be 25.2 billion down. I repeat: we have spent 38.7 billion, we have borrowed an equivalent amount, and we have covered it, have the deposits not been at risk and the 38.7 billion we have borrowed for how much did Mr. Venizelos and Mr. Samaras give it to us on 31-12-2014? It was 25.2 billion down. We've got 11 billion left. I'm making this painting, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Since the participation of the CFSF, we have finally been left with 11 billion. Are the deposits at risk in 2014? In 2012? In 2013, 2015? Oh, no. But that is a political responsibility. Why, for two years the third, then, the second failed, is supposed to be a recapitalisation, has made a profit on the loan of the Greek people? Imagine that we borrowed 38 and the value of our loan is 11 billion. And 30 plus another 5 billion is almost in March of 2015, which we had not had time to come to the government. At the same time, the excellent PSI destroyed what? I will give the table that I will present for the first time in the Minutes. I have data from my special service on the insurance funds, how their cash fell. In other words, we didn't just tire the bonds, but "we've got the cash." In 2011, the insurance funds had 17,800,000,000 cash and in 2012 they had 7 billion, another 10 billion down. Go to the value of deposits in cash. The testimonies were at risk? Oh, no. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All this, of course, is not normal and I'm normal to say. If we do a damn thing about what we've lost, we're over 70 billion to date and there's no one in charge. We are all criticised and criticised in the CEEC Directive. The statements weren't compromised. How? In the period 2009 to 2014 - I will give another table - the red loans have increased by 58 billion. In other words, we have wasted the deposits, we have reaped the loans we received by 30 billion - the CFSF says so, not the Kammenos - and we have increased the red loans, because we have had a successful negotiation in four years. Red loans were 58 billion. They destroyed the economy. When you destroy the Greek economy, because it's 58 billion. Red loans - at the same time, as I have said, must provide for at least the equivalent, so that the system does not collapse. Another 53 billion were predictions and money was locked, so the system would not collapse. It was not the system that collapsed, but this is also the deposit table and the evolution of the ‘red loans’ from 2009 until 2015. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What do I mean? That crimes are too many. One of the last things I revealed with Mr Varoufakis, in a letter of 26 March 2015 presented to me following my question, was that since we had borrowed EUR 39 billion to recapitalise the banks, as I explained, and lost all their value, we had to recapitalise two other banks. I remind you we got bonds to recapitalise the banks. What did we do? Shouldn't we recapitalise the banks with our bonds? Yeah. Did we? Yeah. All banks? Oh, no. What did we do? We also got cash from CFS. That's why 11 billion left to get back. The document is from the CFS and I've been brought by Mr. Varoufakis. They were used by 39 billion loans, 37 billion in bonds, 1.5 billion in cash from the initial share capital of the CFSF - we received 1.5 billion from the CFSF cash - and 1,185 billion in cash from cash inflows, from other profits. Total 1,685 cash. We put them in banks I know who they are. It's time to tell them and who they are. They are not here, because we must also be responsible when we speak from the House. We took cash, and we didn't get the bonds we already borrowed, and we paid interest for them. As to why there is an explanation, but it is at least naive for us that we know. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I close by saying that this bill is very important. I would ask all colleagues in this House, but above all I will address the journalists, who take issues, shreds of speeches at risk or try to explain what is going on, to create a new and fully irresponsible and aware of what it means to lose confidence in the banking system, and to start the withdrawals again or to lose the system, not to go while you can get a loan to get the loan, because there is currently no demand for loans, and we have liquidity, for other reasons. There are too many issues to be explained here. Mr President, I will also conclude by reading a statement from Mr Venizelos. I don't have anything personal with him, he just had the luck of being Minister of Finance during the time of the crisis. So, trying to correct or mitigate the impressions of the disaster caused by his policy, and in particular the PSI and all economic policy agreements, he made this statement and I take a piece of it: 'In the PSI they will worship, deposit a crowned laurel. They will apologise, wash their mouths and go and get the little supplement of the PSI that the European Union, Mr Regling, will give them. And he continues: “Listen, many have burdened the public debt as Prime Ministers and Finance Ministers. I was the Minister of Finance who has reduced the public debt by at least EUR 200 billion, by name 100 and at least 100 others at present. Well, there are currently scientific studies, which say how small Greek debt is really." This is Mr Venizelos' statement. I've made my comments. You will allow me, for another thirty seconds, with your tolerance, to read and leave in the Minutes my questions, which are clear and need further investigation: "Mr. Venizelos, can you provide us with the respective Public Debts of the Ministry of Finance, where the enormous reduction in Greek debt is officially reflected, even by EUR 100 billion of nominal value? Will you formally provide us with the debt card, which shows that from 326 billion has been deducted of 100 billion for the haircut and that 226 billion has been left? Simple removal must be! We would like you to give us the list of all the holders of Greek law, who participated and those who did not participate in the PSI, together with the contract of awarding the Agency, who undertook to complete the list. To find them!" I know what I'm asking. We paid someone to find out who has our counterpart. We didn't know! In addition, I say: "It is also possible to provide us with the studies of different economists, where they calculate the additional reduction, as you say, with an emphasis, of 100 billion Greek public debt, at a net present value, with the dates on which the studies were published and where. In addition, give us official analysis on a list of new loans that were forced to take over the Greek State because of the PSI, with their full and detailed cost per institution/loaner and their use. What did we pay for new loans from the PSI? It would be advisable to know in an official manner and the negotiations with Cypriot banks for the PSI. And here I know what I'm saying. Because we loaded bonds...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Cammene, these are questions you've already submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u97	I'm closing, Mr. President. I would also mention: 'Finally, it would be our pleasure to publish the minutes of the administrative boards of all voluntarily involved in the PSI'. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And it will allow me, with all due respect, to his knowledge and personality - and I mean that - to remind him of Albert Einstein's saying: 'I am inversely proportional to knowledge'. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u98	I hope that Mr Venizelos will answer you because I see that he is a registered speaker. We are completing with the special speakers with Mr Mario Georgiadis, from the Centro Association. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I would like, as an introduction to the reflection on the current bill, to refer to the words of Mr Tsakalotou in the committee. The Minister responded to the JRC's criticism that, consistently with its anti-capitalist rhetoric, he pointed out that the current application is based on large banking capital. At that time Mr Tsakalotos replied and stressed: 'The worst thing in capitalism is not to exploit capitalism because then you are unemployed'. He added: "When the banks fall apart, the effects on the working class are dramatic." Indeed, in this case Mr Chakalotos replied as if he were a member of our party and we warmly congratulate him. But, frankly, we wonder why these opinions do not go hand in hand with his actions and government practice in general. We have legislated 100% tax advance for private traders. You are prepared to legislate additional percentage contributions - around 20% - for private and self-employed insurance funds. Since the recent news report it has surfaced that we are probably going to 50% of the tax for incomes above EUR 65,000. This means that a profitable company with such a professional activity in its first year will pay 100% tax if we take into account tax advances. At the same time, taking into account the excessive bureaucracy, the massive exodus of companies abroad, the climate in the private economy and everything, the state goes from evil to worse. In this context, therefore, both Mr Tsakalotos and the gentlemen of the Government, I would like you to tell me how you believe that you allow capitalism to take advantage of you. The opposite is the case with these actions, that is, you do not want the private economy at all. A young private trader or trader who will make over 65,000 euros, along with the tax advance, will pay 100% tax on the state. Isn't that a straightforward refusal to have a private economy? In these circumstances, the free markets, ladies and gentlemen, are not burning up for us. Nobody's coming for investment. Why would he come anyway to invest in our country? Maybe he'll come only for tourism. But this possibility also tends to disappear lately if we take into account the enormous problems we have with the refugee problem. Let us now look a little more specifically at the draft bill. First of all, the incorporation of the Community directive is positive. As the Central Association, however, we have also explained to the committee, we are too late. Therefore, the banks are no longer rescued through the bill through taxpayers' money, but through the participation of shareholders, bondholders and depositors, through the process that has also been known as bail in. Therefore, the bail in process does not match the ‘cut’, but the ‘cut’ is the last measure of bail in. The depositor is therefore protected up to EUR 100,000 per bank institution and not per account. Indeed, in some exceptional cases, protection reaches EUR 300,000. For example, we mention what is not protected. Mutual funds are not protected. Market managers note that reserve management funds are affected by the proportion of total capital placed in internal deposits rather than any deposits in repos and other financial products. Also, the deposits of the social security funds and of the occupational insurance funds, as well as local authorities, are not protected. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, the President of the Bank of Greece and the Vice-President of the Bank of Greece stated the following on this matter: These bodies are not covered by the guarantees of the EKE, because the Bank of Greece is not a credit institution. They are, therefore, guaranteed by the public themselves. They welcome the guarantee of the government itself. Ladies and gentlemen, our public is not so reliable. No one lends us except the states of the European Union and the IMF. No one's lending us unless there's a Memorandum. And you, with the fragile parliamentary majority, continue the tactical process with the institutions, that is, the last creditors we have left. So how can we talk about public credibility? Proved, then, our public bodies and private and public insurance together, in the event of a new crisis in banking institutions, are actually in the air. Here you will find opposing not only us, but also the biggest part of society. There must be a way of not being so direct about bank bankruptcy as citizens go bankrupt. After we have reached this point, there is, that is, the bail in the table, to see the problem in the face. We cannot be optimistic not to get to the bail point in. You must activate and further shield the Greek economy. At this point I would really like to ask you how likely the case of bail in, if we have not completed the evaluation process by summer, that is, until - let me say - in June, July. I would really like a concrete answer from a government responsible on this issue. And another question. On the basis of the up-to-date picture of banking institutions and on the basis of your financial calculations for the current year, the participation of shareholders and bondholders in the process of a possible bail in will be enough, or will we also reach the haircut point of the deposits and the activation of the compensation mechanism? The president also told the committee that stress tests will begin in 2016 in common for all countries, so nothing has yet begun for us. Therefore, the compensation mechanism, even if the bill is passed today, has not been tested to the fullest. If, in other words, we are directly in conflict with the institutions and the evaluation has not been completed soon, there can be a problem in the whole of the deposits. But let us look more specifically at banking institutions. It was a great surprise when the bill was drawn up in committee, when Mrs Katseli, as President of the National Bank, said exactly the following: "From 1-1-2010 to 31-12-2015 deposits in the Greek banking system decreased by EUR 114 billion. In order to be able to return the deposits, we must first - first - complete the assessment, secondly, return to normality, thirdly, remove restrictions on the movement of capital. Therefore, on the side of the Greek Banking Union, we are looking forward to a gradual return to normality and to the return of deposits within the next two to three years, along with active policies and incentives from our side." In other words, Mr Katselis confesss three things: first, he confesses EUR 114 billion of bank outflows over the last five years. Secondly, it intrinsically connects the completion of our assessment with our statements. Thirdly and more importantly, it provides for a return to normality in two or three years. From these words, a government-friendly bankman, we understand that we have put the country on the economic 'wall' for at least a decade. We should explain to our children that within the European Union in the 21st century, we have decided by means of our actions and omissions to go through an economic middle ages that will last decades. Tell me how to explain that we have mortgaged the future of generations of the whole generations. Ladies and gentlemen, we as the Central Association, despite the hard criticism we are making, are proposing solutions. We are not extremely negative, but we are in favour of convergence of forces of understanding and progress. The protection of our depositors is a fundamental issue and cannot be the subject of any microparticipation in any way whatsoever. According to all the bank operators, which you have appointed, the return of deposits to the banks has not begun. The banking faith has not come back and the worst is that it is expected to come back in two or three years at the best. Can I give you a personal assessment, too? Our economy won't make with the return of banking faith. Our economy will build several years after it, when we stop talking about bail in and haircuts, when the private sector starts working properly. Then the Greek economy will start to work again. And that's not gonna happen with magical solutions. All of this will be done if the following three concise conditions are met: First, government stability. Second, technocrats in positions of responsibility. Thirdly, lowering and stabilising tax rates, completely eliminating painful bureaucracy, while at the same time making a substantial assessment of state mechanism officials. Only one solution meets all the above conditions. We've told her several times. It is the universal government by ministring technocrats, the government of extensive cooperation with an absolute and undeniable European figure. If we do not do this, we will throw Greece into adventures that have never lived in its younger history. As we have said to the committee, we have placed ourselves at the outset for this bill and we will be placed on the articles at the time of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u100	We too, Mr. Georgiadis. We're entering the list of speakers. I have been informed by my colleague Mr Cremastino that eight colleagues have been on the list and that the parliamentary representatives have agreed to get rid of the list - one hour, that is, the speeches - and then follow them. Mrs Catherine Papacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing today an incorporation of a directive, ladies and gentlemen, which has something to do with the Deposit and Investment Guarantee Fund, but it also includes other provisions, which I consider to be interesting, particularly as regards the way in which the government's majority of the government has the legislative initiative, and I will then explain what I mean. I want to say this, ladies and gentlemen. The European Commission, by means of a press release from its delegation of 10/12/2015, had formally requested ten states - including our own country - to implement fully - that is the wording - the directive on deposit-guarantee schemes. I would ask the Minister to hear that and explain why it did not happen. The deadline for transposition into national law should, ladies and gentlemen, be 3 July 2015. Let me remind you that on Sunday, July 5, 2015, Greece passed a referendum on the Prime Minister's decision. Of course, I have to tell you that in those days our statements were not guaranteed. Consider the extent of responsibility. In the past six months of 2015 - because I want to see the adventure and the route of the government's legislation every time and I want to understand what we are discussing here - the Government did not have time to deal with this directive, because it was very proudly negotiating, as he has told us. However, we in the referendum we risked, by means of its Government, the statements which we left a long time ago. I have to tell you, too, the oxymomile of the matter. These are - to allow me to express - Greek government patents. It is therefore worth noting that Greece should incorporate it more quickly than other countries. Why? Because very simply the directive that comes here today to be ratified was shaped by a Greek Presidency of the European Union in April 2014. I told you that these are original patents and damages to the object that we are supposed to ensure, namely the guarantee of deposits and investments. So, with the soul in the mouth, as the average citizen says - and that is the right expression - we are once again legislating. I would like to say to you this: I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and the government, and I am very sorry about this. Do you know why I'm sorry? I do not deplore the fact that you are handcuffed and that you are kneeling the legislation. I regret the fact that society is suffering, that the Greek households are suffering, that the Greek economy is suffering, that I am having them, and that you realise that I am not happy about that at all. It is therefore the case in this context that the directive is ratified and that the General Accounting Office of the State fails to determine the financial implications for the State in certain provisions. So you realize what this means to us in the parallel program. We're living here now. Of course I have to tell you that with regard to the bill, the New Democracy Government, with Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis at that time, had in time with Law 3714/2008 increased - you need to know - the amount at EUR 100,000. Let's talk about these things! I must also tell you that some of the provisions you bring are the same with the provisions of Law 3746/2009, which shows that no radical changes are taking place, so that we do not go crazy about the National Representation here! I must also say to you - and our rapporteur has said - that the guarantee of deposits, in some cases up to EUR 300,000, is not covered by the contributions of credit institutions to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. I am referring to the interim amount from EUR 100,000 to EUR 30 000. So you have not brought any dramatic updates. I do not understand that you are doing this terrible thing - and it makes me a terrible impression - within this ratification. In Article 63 you have lost sense of measure, of where we are. Why am I saying that? If you see neighbouring countries, for example Turkey, which we are talking about in the face of refugees, we lose the bet and the advantage of maritime tourism, ladies and gentlemen. Why? Because by Article 63 you decided to abolish the luxury tax exemption for business boats...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u102	Answered that, Mrs. Papacosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u103	Wait a minute. How did he respond? This is therefore a question of not losing the advantages. I wish it was understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u104	You got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u105	I'm glad. I wish I could see it and it'd happen. Finally, Mr President, let me say this. I am not saying this positively, unfortunately, Mr Minister and colleagues of the government majority - it has a proposed regulation of the Ministry of Culture, which invokes a law, which has been amended, and the Athens Festival is no longer based on the law mentioned in the bill. So I want to say this. Please, I too - and I personally - cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u106	Article 67.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u107	This provision of the Ministry of Culture must be withdrawn. Why? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u108	You are referring to the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u109	I refer to the amendment concerning the artistic director of the Greek Festival of Athens SA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u110	Good. Therefore, not in an article of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u111	Not in an article. It has, however, been incorporated as an article.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u112	There's been an article.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, there has been an article.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u114	It was an amendment and an article has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u115	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u116	That is why I referred to as an article. It's Article 67. Now listen. Here the provision invokes Law 2636/1998, which is the founding law of the Athens S.A. Festival. By decision of a Minister, an artistic director is appointed and the provision describes his responsibilities. However, Law 3429/2005 stipulates the way in which public undertakings and organisations are organised as well. Therefore, under the law, the CEO is chosen by a public notice and in the absence of the rules of procedure - there is no rules of procedure - and the responsibilities of the CEO have not been defined. How does the Minister in fact proceed to appoint an artistic director, how does he define his responsibilities, since there is exactly no rules of procedure, what are the priorities of the Ministry? He has not yet submitted the bill for the National Theatre and the Theatre of Northern Greece, which also provides for the position of artistic director and his alternates, although his consultation has been completed. In conclusion, I say on this matter that the Minister of Arts at the Athens Festival SA is appointed. Why? The question arises 'Why?' To legitimize specific positions around, ladies and gentlemen? Does it have to - and I thank you, Mr President-in-Office - to legislate properly, for the good legalisation, for this to be withdrawn so that not only the legislative initiative can be honest, but also indeed? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u118	You will allow me, Mr President, to reply to Mr Tsakalotos, who is very often using soccer terms here, in this Chamber, about the same terminology. In his introductory speech to inform us - and we thank him very much for that - he told us about players. He says: "Most players want to move on. There are some who still resist. So, for now, they're winning. But refereeship is a delay, all three arbitrators and the observer..." - the troika and the fourth, the quartet - "and so the result is uncertain. We don't know what's gonna happen. We have a road in front of us." So Mr Tsakalotos is dealing with developments, as he has taken us here in the Chamber, with optimism, but things are not like that at all. Because what did he tell us about the substance? He told us that we are in agreement with our partners in the structure, structure and content, if any, of the changes to the evaluation - the first issue of insurance and after tax on the budget gap - but there is still disagreement in the assessment of the efficiency of the measures and in the budget gap by 2018. That is not a signicant difference. That's the point. It is the essence of the matter, because the government has joined our strategy, on the basis of which we were also trying to close the evaluation in 2014 - it is a series of things that are under way - and then the institutions were telling us that they disagree. And we told them: "If the program does not come out..." - says Mr. Tsakalotos now, that he will come out - "... we will take measures in the summer of 2015." And they said, "No, get them in advance, in addition, better to deal with the next ones, which will be in 2015, you won't be." So, at the moment, there is a huge dead end. This deadlock is not just about toys inside the institutions, which, that is, what is, the IMF strategy, which is not just about us, saying that 9 billion is the budgetary gap and 'take measures', but also pressure our partners on debt write-downs. Our partners have spoken. He's told Mr. Reggling how the debt is being reduced. The point is that the assessment of the deadlock is too great. And since the basis for calculation has been changed, that is, we are not talking about the same GDP, we are not talking about the same growth rate, with which we have used the calculations, the process of the agreement will be painful. That is how I anticipate, reading the reality of these nice things from Mr Tsakalotou. He has told us here that we have disproved the most bad forecasts of GDP growth and that we have better. However, we have paid for the recession. We had 9 billion GDP reduction in 2015. He told us he was going better to tax revenue. Well, does the Minister not read the report from the General Secretariat of Public Revenue? Does the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue not say that we had 44,225,000 euros in 2014 and 43,614,000 euros in 2015, so minus 611,000 euros? And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue has said in his letter. I would like to inform the House - and I would like to inform the House - that this is the case after emergency measures of 1 billion, of which more than 450 million was VAT. In the palm, and so help us, that's it! It didn't work out at all. So we have a long way to go. Although it says that the measures taken are not procyclically and do not burden the economy and recession, it is important to read the report of the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournara, which says what impact the tax increases have on them, that they do not render and that they create further trends of tax evasion, tax evasion and "black" labour, and that it does not have a plan that inspires to attract investment, not even to exploit public property, it has not presented a stable tax framework which would help investment, as it says, the national tax plan. I was with Mr Alexiadis in a debate, and I told him that, if they called us, we would go to this debate on a national tax plan and ask SYRIZA if it would come because, when we did so, SYRIZA had not come to the debate. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the great deadlocks. Of course, I welcome it here - the ratification, the transposition into the Greek legal system of a 2014/49 directive, which actually replaces on 1994/19. He has evidence that improves previous settings. Why don't you forget that, first and foremost, we had questions of guaranteeing the deposits, but unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that we all went out to the media and said that the deposits are guaranteed, no one was listening, and that is why in 2015 we had 40 billion outflows of deposits. Were they guaranteed on the basis of the previous system that you're now improving? Yeah, they were guaranteed up to 100 thousand. Why would people take their money from the banks and put it in the chests, mattresses and pillows? Because it did not have confidence in the banking system, as political developments and uncertainty had started. So we do and we vote. Give answers, Minister, to the questions raised by our rapporteur, Mr Arvanitides, on some critical issues, such as covering the funds available to the professional funds, which are not the social security funds that are compulsory for the Bank of Greece, but these professionals that are private deposits, if you want to support professional insurance. Other points raised by our rapporteur in question, you have to answer them, you need to improve the relevant arrangements. And so to close, Mr President, and not to waste time, since today is a Chicknfibre, I imagine that that is not the reason why SYRIZA Members are absent. It is a politician, if it were a parallel programme, that they would be here grouping to support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u119	There are two committees, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u120	All right, all right. I didn't abuse it, I gave credit that's not the reason for Chicknobbet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u121	Not even one!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u122	To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say this: the prerequisite for the banking system to stand still is a political requirement, namely that there should be a state that operates, that there should be an economy that operates, that there should be savings and confidence. These are not today and it does not seem that the government is doing anything to deal with them. Thank you, Mr President, for the slightest tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u123	Thank you. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u124	Thank you. The aim of the draft law and the incorporation of the European Community directive is to support and protect the financial system that is the heart of the capitalist economy in today's imperialist phase, and indeed, it is a very competitive field. This is why the recapitalisation is also promoted in Greece on the one hand by bending the banks with billions of euros and, on the other, directly and violently implement the capitalist restructurings, which beat all the rights left in wages, collective agreements, permanent and stable work, medical care, social welfare, level them. Moreover, this rotten system is experiencing the fear of a new capitalist, economic crisis, since the forecasts of the International Monetary Fund and the OECD for the global economy describe a downward trend. The IMF points to a financial reward to become tighter for emerging economies, where exports of raw materials have been affected by the payout of the Chinese economy, but also by the OECD estimates that the downward trend occurs in a coordinated manner - and this is the great fear in Eurozone, USA, Japan - coupled with the reward of emerging capitalist economies. In other words, the course of the capitalist economy in Greece, the Eurozone and internationally stand on a burning ground, which is why there is also an increase in intra-imperialist opposition. So they try to shield the profitability of financial capital, squeeze labour and popular strata. Of course, in our country, the labour struggles are also pressing, the mobilisations against the hard anti-popular policy of the government, and that is the hope. The question is, through this bill, are people's statements protected? No, we respond, because when someone deposits money to a financial institution, he becomes an automatic lender of the bank and is therefore considered an investor. It is risky, since deposits are investment products and if a bank has problems, it can use deposits. And to save a bank, depositors may also be called under 100,000 euros. In the end, what deposit guarantee is being made? What deposit guarantees today when there are capital controls and they continue to exist in the next period? At the same time, on the basis of this European Union directive, social security funds are excluded from the bank deposit guarantee system, i.e. they can get bored from the first euro. The Communist Party of Greece requires the protection of the deposits of the people's households and the insurance funds. You've had enough of all the governments to make good on the financial capital. Of course, the contradictions and competitions are great between the urban classes of the Member States and are also manifested in refugee and the caging of thousands on Greek territory, and this is the new page for Greece, Mr Tsakalotos. Thousands of refugees from Syria and Afghanistan are the biggest victims of the imperialist interventions and wars that are continuing with NATO, the US, the countries of the European Union and Russia, because they compete with each other about who will "hand" on the wealth of an entire region and whose monopolies will win from the ongoing bazaars. And in this sense, the government's responsibilities are heavy by costing itself behind the imperialist policy of the European Union and NATO, undermining the security of the country. I would like to refer to the amendments tabled by the JRC. One is essentially the neoliberalisation of trade union activity and forms of struggle in many branches, with a industry of own to farmers claiming their survival - and this is considered to be their crime - or at the trade union of the EGMG, who are accused of their struggle not to dissolve the only Institute of Geological Mining Research in the country and not to be fired, through reserves from the previous ones, by fifty-five of the three hundred twenty-workers. But also workers in the metal industry, particularly in the Perama area, and seafarers and various branches of workers and members are accused of defending their right to work and collective agreements, safeguarding their struggle and form of struggle. We therefore ask that you vote against the industry of ours and that there should be fighters in the courts for the right to defend the law. The other amendment concerns the abolition of unfair excise duty on wine. Already in less than two months from the date of the introduction of the excise duty on wine, the whole wine-growing cooperatives in all wine-growing regions have suffered a critical blow. From Amyniono to Crete and from Zakynthos to Lemnos, the nightmare is common: The collapse of wineries, recording a fall of more than 60%. While their liquidity is non-existent, they cannot pay the special tax either, according to the data provided by the CEIG. It is no coincidence that one of the five requests from the sixty-eight blocks of small and medium-sized farmers was to abolish excise duty on wine. All this shows the contradictions, the contradictions and the deadlocks of the exploitation system. But the people, the working people's movement, should not be afraid of the difficulties of the urban political system. On the contrary, to strengthen them, to broaden them with their struggle, to exploit every crack and possibility, to block their fire against the real opponent, capital, and power and to collide with the JRC's political proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u125	I very much ask Mr. Dimitrios Cavalella to come to Stepma. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. This draft law incorporates Directive 2014/49/EU of the European Parliament into Greek law. It concerns deposit-guarantee schemes and some provisions relating to the Deposit Guarantee Fund are codified and it is designated as a sole body to award this guarantee. So you bring this directive, when the Greek depositors have completely lost their trust in the banking system. This is your parallel programme, obviously, which you have made a lot of publicity. There is, of course, now a burning issue of your stress assessment and so, when you first read it, one sees a lot of cuffs. Three meetings have taken place to explain to us the poorly formulated article 63, which had caused us stress and problem, because it was against Greek tourism. In your parallel programme, as I mentioned earlier, I did not see anything similar to development. Without growth, the Greek economy can expect nothing. I have already heard from the spokesman from the JRC about the factories that they can work without bosses. How will they work? Aren't they going to have managers? The manager won't act like a boss? What will it be? In any case, I am going to get to the bottom of this. After everything that happened last summer with irresponsible moves, they led to the group flight of funds, the capital controls came - we all know them - the bank shares from the beginning of the 'first time left' began to collapse and reached the point of losing 85% of their value. The frustration of the banks was followed by a law of your own, which defined the overpowering of members of the Board of Directors, of members belonging to foreign interests. So, in foreign investment funds, the'red' loans were delivered and we will soon become homeless and we and refugees within our own country. And since we are talking about refugees, have you considered the financial burden we will bear in mind for the hospitality of all these refugees who will be caught in Greece? Mr. Muzalas actually admitted it to us. We are practically out of Schengen because for the next two - three years - and I think they will always be here - we will also suffer the consequences of your conduct. You are very open-handed to others - even VAT from the foods you removed them - while we Greeks are much richer. In any case, with your conduct, which you said "Come on, we have an open frontier" or said Mr Tsipras "the Aegean has no borders", without having any place for organization and restriction, they enter, come out, fight, go back, go back to the border, come down, go to Victoria Square. A mess has been created. Even with the beneficial behaviour that we have shown towards refugees, all this behaviour has created in Europe in a resurrected climate. It has been said, and the incredible by one of your own "to multiply with the refugees" and to become a alloy, to wear in our wives - on the assumption that the man will be the one to help increase the Greeks - bourgeois and impose what he has learned and so on. You've done so well to get me into trouble, and I'm getting away a little bit. I'll get to the point. The other day, Mrs Katseli said that it would take two or three years, while you assured us before March - April, someplace there, the capital controls would stop. Now, why would we believe that in two or three years' time we will see the light? I do not think that with the current government and its logic we will get out of this terrible situation, nor with the capital controls. In other words, there is nothing shocking about your intentions, which I can see. The only solution is to resign and create a government of ecumenical character, so that it can manage more creatively, more honestly and more correctly this crucial issue, with regard to the Greek people that you have told them and others. This Directive comes with a view to harmonising banking systems to members of the European Union. Of course, they concern the deposit guarantee system. But here too, I could say various neutronisms. So the hard core of the European Union has now been decided on by banks - regardless of maturity - to enter a single system - framework of deposit guarantees. It is therefore foreseen to pay contributions on the basis of the profile of each bank, in the light of each bank's precariousness. This will reach 0.8% and has a limit of 2025. So who's gonna pay most of that? The Greek banks will pay, i.e. they will be even more problematic. In any case, you have not taken into account the stress tests because they have not yet been implemented. You bring a rough bill, without a provision for stress tests. The capital that will come out of the banking system cannot be exploited. It will go to an agency that will need to have it immediately paid. If a bank goes bankrupt, depositors will have recourse to this fund and it should have this money immediately for return. What is bothering us is the expulsion of the social security funds of various state agencies from this guarantee system. That seems a little suspicious. I'm afraid that at any given moment, if you do, you'll get some money from there, you'll put it somewhere else, you'll make tramps and you'll always be anxious about where our money is going, where we're trying to get the insured to have a decent course to the age of our lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, Mr Venizelos, would you like me to keep the order and speak for seven minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u128	We will hold a closed meeting of the Committee on Institutions. If I may, I may precede, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u129	All right, come on, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the House is discussing and consensually voting for the transposition of the deposit and investment directive. As we know, the single banking market is gradually being established. The truth is that we, as a country in crisis and in a memorandum, were very interested in this issue. We were interested in the stability of our banks and the return of deposits, the disruption of deposits and of the Greek Presidency in 2014, we contributed to the acceleration of Union procedures and the adoption of the single system of supervision and the single system of clearing system for systemic banks. But, as we all understand, there is a strong reaction from the strong states and especially Germany in relation to the third pillar, which is the single deposit guarantee system. In the European Union, we do not have a single deposit guarantee system with Community funds, on equal terms for all banks in all Member States. By transposing the directive into the internal legal order, we harmonise the Greek system of protection with the systems of the other Member States. We have a harmonised level of protection, but not a uniform level. Protection is based on national resources. Our aim is to raise the level of protection and to have a single deposit and investment guarantee system as a third pillar of the single market. This is of enormous importance to us, because otherwise there will be ever increasing disparities between Member States and the systemic banks of the Member States. We in our own banks are, of course, giving more tempting deposit rates, but we also have a higher loan rate. A Greek medium-sized and small enterprise borrows in much more difficult terms than a German - let's say this - business. It's one of the fundamental inequalities. However, the increased deposit rate does not act as an incentive because the depositor is not as interested in the interest rate as in the security. It is ready to accept even a negative interest rate, i.e. to pay the bank or to pay the state that has issued a strong bond in order to make a secure deposit or a secure placement of its capital. So if we do not solve the problem of the single deposit and investment guarantee system, we will always be at a disadvantage. Now, what is it that protects the deposits, so we can be honest? The Capital Controls. Unfortunately, since we were backward, since we did not continue with the situation that we found in December 2014 as a country, but we chose to renegotiate by going for the better, and we finally went to the worst, since the summer of 2015 imposed the capital controls, the capital controls are the ones that keep the remaining deposits within the Greek banking system. The political uncertainty is the one that does not allow the deposits to be returned and we do not offer a service to the Greek banking system and the Greek economy unless the deposits are returned. But how can the statements be turned, when the country lacks a political direction, when we do not have a government strategy, when we have this ambiguity, when for fourteen months the government has been chasing its tail, negotiating, renegotiating, opening, closing and reopening the same issues, when we are in danger of reliving the days of 2015? After all, unfortunately, the macroeconomic data show that 2016 is expected to be worse than in 2015. I am not talking about the financial elements which are being extinguished when the government's overdue debts to the market are increasing. I am referring to the elements of the real economy, the turnover, the turnover, the turnover, the climate of optimism and pessimism. Does March 2016 have anything to do with the climate that existed in November, December 2014, even though the presidential election was pending and everyone saw that it is very likely that we would go to elections and have another association of forces in this House? It is now an objective that can be approached again in 2018. And I wish we could approach him, get to that situation, because there is no question of it. It's an evaluation bridge of Arta. Evaluation! What about the International Monetary Fund? Evaluation of what programme? The programme, in its old form, has not even been agreed here as a European and International Monetary Fund programme. This is an evaluation of the European part of the programme. And well, the International Monetary Fund won't come in. But come on, because the International Monetary Fund is already in its position as an expert and says its very strong view, because the European Stability Mechanism regulation, the ESM, provides for this in itself. In any case, how is it possible to speak about evaluation when we have huge loose ends such as insurance, loose ends such as the budget gap and such as the ambiguity in the reforms? What reforms? The reforms of the UNHCR or the reforms of the individual ministers who exorcise every privatisation initiative? What investments? The investments made at the port of Piraeus, which will in any case be privatised, but which will not be made in Greek, why is there no decision there? The investments made by the Canadians in the banking system, which have been made at the international airport, but which cannot be made at the "ELLENIC FRYSOS" in Halkidiki? And we have reached the worst of all the issues, on the question of the exchange that is now the despair of the government, which will become a despair of the country! We had never allowed for so many years of crisis and tough negotiation to link economic negotiations with foreign policy to national issues. Never! Now we have a connection - which is being made at the initiative of the government - of the refugee question with the assessment of the refugee question with the insurance of the refugees with the debt! But is that ever possible? Debt has been agreed since 2012. Some others were hallucinating that something might happen. They'll do what they have to do and they'll apologize. And so it must be done, so it protects the national interest. It's taken for granted what will happen in relation to the debt. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. Is it possible for Greece, which is entitled to take - and will it take anyway - the additional facility for debt, to accept on its own that we will leave the proportion of the distribution of refugees and irregular immigrants to get what we are entitled to? Are we going to put in the memorandum, signed by Mr. Tsipras with Mr. Kammenos, and additional conditions in relation to the functioning of Schengen or Dublin, in relation to the refugee and particularly in relation to the irregular immigrants who have no security problem in their country of origin? And is it possible to link our economic evaluation and relationship with Germany, with a rough decision to bring NATO to the Aegean - not even in the Eastern Mediterranean - without having settled the operational details? And we have given Turkey the opportunity to reintroduce all the infringements of international law and to raise again the issue of the demilitarisation of the islands, a question of grey areas, while we consider that Germany will relax in relation to the assessment or the International Monetary Fund? But who brought the International Monetary Fund to Europe? The German Government and other strong governments because of distrust with the European Commission. It has not changed anything in this respect. On the contrary, the regulations governing the European Stability Mechanism and the regulation which provides for all support and financing mechanisms provide for the presence of the International Monetary Fund. We must also be serious and remembranced in relation to the Deposit and Guarantee Fund. The fund, when you have 120 billion deposits and when you have this situation in the economy, is of course not enough. It is not enough national resources. That is why the single guarantee system is very important. However, in the crucial period of 2011, when we were in the debt haircut negotiations, when we were in the negotiation of the bank recapitalisation, the deposit guarantee fund is what made it easier to keep bank credit at a high level, to inspire confidence in the deposits, not to leak deposits, not to have a bank run - because it is another thing to dilute and other things panic - and, of course, to get together in negotiation and recapitalisation. And I really want to thank and congratulate, from this Step, the then management of the Bank of Greece, the Governor, Mr Provopoulou and the subordinates, the members of the Strategic and Systemic Stability Council at that time and the Board of Directors of the EKE, because with moves, which were agreed with all the systemic banks and with all the institutions and especially the European Central Bank and the Bank of Greece, we maintained the complete security of the system and guaranteed all the deposits of the Greeks and Greeks. They may have lost value on property, there may have been a problem with incomes, but the deposits are what has been guaranteed. Why? Because the deposits are the ones that support the real economy. These can be converted into loans, they can be converted, through the accounting mechanism, into 'blood' for growth. It is therefore extremely important to have an integrated system of national protection, but above all, European protection, on these issues. And attention is not a protest, not a complaint, but an appeal to the government, because the government acts in the name of all of us, all of the nation and all of the people. Do not make huge historical mistakes in the negotiation and do not go out and we will think that we are taking something in relation to rating, insurance and debt and we will give, while we are already giving too much to other sectors. What we need to do is apply international law, respect for the Geneva Convention, humanity and the organization and operation of the necessary infrastructure, firstly the unprotected and unaccompanied children who are the major victims of refugee and immigration!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-four students and students and two educational sessions from the 4th Stavroupolis of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Christos Stakoras has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Finance on deposit guarantee schemes incorporating it into national legal order, a relevant European directive. However, as I have said to the Commission, there is a oxymomile shape in today's debate. The government that led the economy to retrogress, the government that imposed bank holidays and banking restrictions, the government that caused its operations and omissions the greatest annual outflow of deposits since the beginning of the crisis - the largest in 2015 - the government that made it necessary to recapitalise credit institutions, the government that, after wandering around the hallucinations, is embarrassingly standing in front of the problems, the government that is unable and responsible for closing its first assessment - an assessment that should have been closed four five months ago - is now obliged to legislate to guarantee deposits. Truly, fate sometimes plays strange games. And where did fate hear what the Members and the Minister said a few years ago about this particular issue we are discussing today? Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the European economies since mid-2008 have been in the vortex of a major global economic and financial crisis, which in our country the leaderships of the then anti-population parties have been burning that they have not seen it. In Greece, credit institutions due to this systemic crisis, the fiscal endogenous problems of the country, as well as their own bad choices - credit institutions in other words - have been faced with major challenges, challenges with adverse consequences for the solvency and liquidity of the banking system. Thus, it has become necessary to create a framework for strengthening stability and confidence in the banking system. Since 2008, Mr Venizelos should have been in his position a few years ago - since the then government of the New Democracy, he has started to develop this framework in a methodical and perceptive way. I can explain: A key component of this framework was the need to strengthen the deposit guarantee. This was done by Law 3714/2008, according to which the ceiling on deposit guarantee increased from 20,000 to 100,000. And then there was no European mechanism. I note that then only Greece and Ireland were the first European countries to proceed with this initiative without a safety and security net from Europe. Then, at the beginning of 2009, the CECF, the Deposit and Investment Guarantee Fund, was established by Law 3746/2009, modernising the legal framework for the payment of indemnity payments to depositors, as well as to credit institution investors. This institutional framework created in time in our country and then updated and modernised in 2011 and 2012 was reinforced by European-level initiatives on banking union - banking union that, gentlemen of the co-government, were accused in 2014! - initiatives taken by the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2014, when a significant number of dossiers in the field of the financial services market were completed, aimed at strengthening the security and transparency of the financial system, shielding the stability of financial markets and protecting the rights of private investors and consumers. Among those files that were closed at the time, in the first half of 2014, was the directive on deposit guarantee schemes which is now incorporated into the draft law we are discussing - then it was decided that this directive was adopted - a draft law providing improved, broader and clearer access to cover for deposits, shorter deadlines for payment of compensation, better and identical to all depositors information from credit institutions, strict funding requirements and explicit recognition of the possibility of depositors to bring proceedings against the CEC to ensure their rights. All these initiatives of 2008, 2009, 2011 and 2014, the Left, from the headquarters of the Opposition, had built and rejected them. Today, thankfully, all this is going for a walk and the parties of the government majority accept by voting for the bill the mistake of their criticism in the long run and the acidification of their actions over the last year. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end with two points. First point: despite the important steps taken so far to complete the basic pillars of the Banking Union - particularly the first and second pillars - that is, the supervision and resolution of credit institutions, it is important that the project should be completed soon, by adopting, following the harmonisation of the relevant schemes, a European body to guarantee deposits initially complementary to national systems and, in the end, by a soundly reciprocated mechanism. Secondly, because the Minister for Finance has asked us for our opinion: The initiatives to be taken should aim both at reducing the risk and sharing the risk. After all, these are also basic concepts of financial. They're interns. The first two pillars of the banking union aim to reduce the risk. Significant steps have already been taken in this direction. National, distinctive wishes to the application of the supervisory framework have been recognised and limited. Supervision has passed on a supranational level. It has been carried out for many banks - and it will follow for the others this year - an assessment of the quality of the portfolio. The requirement to maintain at a high level the capital adequacy ratio has been imposed. Therefore, steps have been taken to reduce the risk through the first two pillars of the banking union that we built in the first half of 2014 in the Greek Presidency, when the Left voted against this framework. Obviously, the further reduction in the risk faced by credit institutions is legitimate in the context of safeguarding financial stability. However, it is something that cannot be eliminated, because the very nature of banking operations is related to risk-taking. Otherwise, there would be no profitability. In any case, however, risk reduction should go hand in hand with risk-sharing initiatives. I understand the position of some European countries in the opposite sense. However, Europe cannot afford a bank card. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u133	There's two speakers left. Mr. Constantopoulos and Mr. Saridis. The Deputy Minister for Finance, George Juliarakis, will be able to make an intervention and submit some legislative improvements. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am making a legislative improvement to the draft law, Article 8 and Article 12. Both improvements correct reference to the previous law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u135	Allow me, on the basis of the positions of Mr Koutsoukos and Mr Venizelos, to make a brief reference, a clarification on the development of the negotiation. First of all, I would like to say that the negotiation is a day-to-day process. It's not interrupted. It shall continue on a regular basis at technical level. Technical steps of all four institutions are in Athens. We're talking with them. The flow of information is perfectly normal, the cooperation is normal. So it's not about interrupting the negotiation. Secondly, the assessment of the Greek Government and all three European institutions - and I think this is an important point - on the crucial issue of the 2018 budget gap, is under the August 2015 agreement. The Greek side and the three European institutions have a joint assessment of the 2018 budget gap. I would even say that if the completion of the evaluation was based on the Greek agreement with the European institutions, the evaluation would have already been completed. The major problem we are now seeing on the question of evaluation is the position of the Fund. The Fund, as you know from the public position of its head of European department, Paul Tomsen, considers that the 2018 budget gap is four to five times higher than what is explicitly reflected in the August agreement. Our position, but also the position of the European institutions - and that is what we stressed in the last Euro Working Group, that is what we continue to emphasise at every opportunity - is that from August 2015 to March 2016 the macroeconomic data - take note of the forecasts underlying the August agreement - have improved. The growth rate of 2015 - and I refer to the latest elements of ELSTAT - is talking about very small, mild recession of 0.3% at an annual rate for 2015, when the August programme was referring to a downward recession close to 2%. The primary result of 2015 is estimated to be a surplus of 0.2%, while the August programme anticipated a primary deficit of 0.25%. The macroeconomic data, therefore, both at the level of growth of the real economy and at the level of the budget, are clearly improved. The Fund, therefore, needs to explain exactly what happened between August 2015 and March 2016, in order to assess that the budget gap is five times higher. Let me make an assessment. The Fund is in a particularly difficult position - both at the Eurozone and at the level of the European Union - to explain how it is going to be in such a big budgetary gap. This is a crucial success of the government, which all parties must support. All parties should support the government's attempt to isolate, degrade, if you like, the estimates of the Fund. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u137	What would you like, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u138	I would like 30 seconds to talk about the amendments that the government will accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u139	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u140	It is clear that we are accepting the ministerial amendments. We also accept and incorporate the amendment tabled by Mrs Thaleritis and others, with the legislative improvements that will come. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u141	Is everyone accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Chakaloto, if I understand all the ministers correctly, you accept them. Did you say that there would be a legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u143	The one that's a parliamentarian, Mrs. Thalerite...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u144	Who is she?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u145	We'll find it and report the number.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u146	It is Amendment No 277.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u147	What's the object?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u148	The object is deposit-guarantee schemes. You'll be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u149	We'll find her, Minister, and we'll make sure. Don't worry. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Finance Ministry bill incorporates Directive 2014/49/EU on deposit-guarantee schemes. Some additions are also made to the existing framework for the protection of deposits and investments in relation to the Deposit and Investment Guarantee Fund (CECF). This harmonisation of Greek legislation with European law takes place at a time when bank credit is lost. The amateurisms and ideas of the government led to unprecedented destabilization of the banking system. The country has returned to the recession, when other countries, with the same problems, succeeded in getting out of the crisis. We, now start from the beginning again. The recapitalisation of the banks made by the government a few months ago took place on terms of national dividends. Exchange rates were valued at 4 billion systemic credit institutions with a weighted asset value of 210 billion at degrading value of less than EUR 770 million. So you have opened the way for international speculators yourself. You have had the opportunity to negotiate within a better budget environment with surpluses and positive growth rates. And while you were much advertised during the seventeen hours you were negotiating, in fact none. You imposed capital controls and closed the banks. And a few months ago you opened the way to auctioning for the first place without any trace of social pain. Who can forget that a year ago Greece was confronted with Grexit? However, the responsibilities are burdened with you, but they are also burdened with Europe, the European partners, the European institutions, the European institutions and bodies. They have their own responsibilities too. Because they were the ones who have silently consented to a two-speed Europe, a Europe that has been struggling for years to rekindle the European vision. It is the responsibility of all European Member States, what is happening today, with refugees and immigrants. Of course, all this does not relieve the government of its responsibilities. So coordinate, gentlemen of the government. You have a responsibility to rule the country. You have the responsibility of governing the country. Finally, set up an effective plan to tackle the humanitarian crisis. We are heading on the rocks without a plan, without a national strategy. And to come to the debate on the bill, it is extremely important to protect the deposits. What, however, is the care to protect public deposits? You forced dozens of operators throughout the country to transfer their reserves to the Bank of Greece. And here's the question. How do you ensure the protection of these funds? Will the cost of financing the CECF be borne by the bank or the depositor? You haven't clarified it. And I'm afraid it'll make things even harder for depositors. In addition, an important provision of this kind has been omitted in the transposition of the directive. You have not included in the law the provision that, irrespective of the exceptions, depositing of individual and pension programmes and occupational pension schemes of small and medium-sized enterprises and local authorities with an annual budget of less than EUR 500,000 can benefit from protection. So what purposes does this omission serve? So please clarify what is going on in the protection of investments in central administration and OTA. Confusion has been created, with the exception of the above and the public. Gentlemen of the government, the situation in the country is critical. The whole country has become an endless hot spot. All these people come to Greece hoping for a better future. They find only the spontaneous care - I would say - and the solidarity of the Greeks. There's no plan from the government for them. You still have not succeeded in making a conscience in Europe and in the international community that our refugee crisis is for everyone, that the refugee crisis is for Europe as a whole. It is a humanitarian issue and needs the activation of all of Europe and the international community. It takes great care not to become Greece a storeroom of souls. Mr President-in-Office, so that I do not go far - this bill is very important. And the attitude of the Democratic Association shows that we do not follow your example, the 'no' to everything. But it is common to all that the country has been left to its fate. Everyone's request is one, rule it. So rule. That's what we're waiting for. Act and implement your programme for which the Greek people voted for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u151	Me too, Mr. Constantopoulos. Mr Saridis has the floor and we are closing down the speakers. We're done. I will give Mr Baltas, who has asked me for three minutes to support the two amendments. Mr Loverdo, it is self-evident that you made sense to me - Mr Papapas has asked to take the lead, because he is alone in the Committee on Institutions, and then - as you said - to go in turn. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I wanted to take the floor to put a bill on the table at the moment, since it is true that it is a bill that can help restore citizens' confidence in the Greek banking system. It is difficult to gain the trust of Greek citizens. Your spasmodic actions and weak reassurances led you to the Greeks' reluctance to unprecedented levels. Try, you say, to restore normality and normality on the market. Indeed, adapting Greek legislation and harmonising it with European law is necessary, and that is why the Centroon Union is voting for this draft law. But we cannot reassure ourselves, this draft law is not enough. The stability of the banking system depends entirely on the stability of the political system. As you know, in Greece the banks were bankrupt by the state, the government with its actions and its omissions, in contrast to Cyprus, where the banks in question compromised the state itself. How can this finding not have bothered you? We have recapitalised the banks three times with many billions of the Greek taxpayer's pocket, without even reducing his debts. The Greek taxpayer has the right to say that while he has paid three times, he still owes the same and more. This is an absurdity, which we and our fellow citizens live every day. This finding, as well as the political system's inability to inspire confidence, is the reason why Greek taxpayers cannot breathe with relief today. How can they believe you? What did you tell them about the refugee crisis in the summer? What are you telling them now? What did you tell the citizens about VAT on the islands? What can you tell them now? What should those who know how to exempt our islands from VAT earned it for all Greeks, Constantine Karamanlis? We used to negotiate with arguments and win. Now poverty in arguments and lack of coordination also make us afraid of other possessed in the Aegean. What did you say when you closed the Almondsa? What do you say now to the one million citizens who spend every weekend at the Antonis Tritsis Environmental Sensitivity Park? Your Minister, however, refuses to answer the question of what legal status the Tritsis park has been operating for two months and discredits us and Parliament's procedures in turn. What did you say and what did you say? Citizens are tired, and you're no longer being watched. So this bill, for which we are giving you today, the Central Association and the Opposition almost whole, will not be taken seriously into account by the citizens. They don't need your words, your laws don't convince them. That's what the government has achieved. What laws are we talking about? For what justice? In a few days, you'll let a professed killer go home. How do you ask the citizen to have confidence in laws and justice? The concern in the Central Association is that, with your ambiguity and your practice to rename ideas and testify as yours, as innovations, you have managed to make the choice of indifference sound. Today's bill is indeed intended to restore confidence in the banking system. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is worth insisting on something today to make sure that the information has reached the people properly, that is that there is hope, not only because this bill is in the right direction, but because the opposition is now at the level of the circumstances and shows that there is room for consensus. We in the Central Association insist, from the first day on, that in order to restore stability at all levels, but also to restore the credibility of the country abroad, we must move on to the creation of a universal government, precisely because the message they can send to the Greek society two hundred forty or more Members will be heard much louder. If we hope today that there is a small chance that people will feel a little, even small, justified sense of security and believe that these three hundred people who have sent here in this building are indeed dealing with their fairness and their defence, you can know that this hope is maintained because, precisely today, we can consent to something. And that, of course, is nothing but the protection of Greek taxpayers. The power of this House is capable of meeting the challenges of the times. That is what we are proving today all of us who support this bill. So if our aim is to put the country on orbit, to leave behind the lack of understanding and the lack of dialogue, if we really want to put forward the Greek economy, then, as I imagine you know, we must convince the Greek citizens first of all that it is possible for the political system to stand up and that the Greek people do not end up living in a protectorate led by puppets of foreign interests, such as, unfortunately, it has happened to many peoples of the Balkans who have not been able to move from communism to modern times, without maintaining this tinyness and spoonfulness of the unblemished, despite the merciless help offered by our country. I regret the people of Slovakia, but also other peoples representing them, both free and opposing. I regret that the concern for our leadership is greater. In order to retain our independence, as we have lost the right to legislate, as demonstrated by the vote on your parallel programme, we must unite. I call on you all to move forward together in the form of a universal government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u153	I will give the floor for five minutes to Minister Balta who wants to support the amendment already incorporated as Article 67 and I assume his second amendment. Minister, I would also like, in addition to the objections made by colleagues, to tell us how the choice of your decision will be made. Will a competition be opened and from all candidates will you choose one? And if this is the process, what will be the qualifications? It must be written in the article. Or if you put a hotel, that by ministerial decision the process and qualifications of candidates for an artistic director will be determined. Let's not see, in other words, no Frenchman and triumph evil, and then the Benaki Festival and Museum, let's go to another Frenchman. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for the question. A little different from that of the previous conversation. A few clarifications about Articles 66 and 67 at the moment. One is the Fix Museum of Contemporary Art, the other is the Athens Festival. Both amendments - now Articles - stem from a crisis procedure both from one institution and the other, which leads us to move a step towards better overall, in our view at least, of both institutions. With regard to the National Museum of Contemporary Art, there was an end to the term of office of one director, while its definition as director had taken place after an intervention, which I do not want to describe, of the pre-SYRIZA government. The term of office of the Management Board shall end in about one and a half years from now. We did not want to intervene violently to change the board of directors and thus choose a new director arbitrarily. We want, on the basis of this crisis, to launch a process of international competition for the recruitment of a new director, a new director at the National Museum of Contemporary Art. In the meantime, as you know, the Museum has not opened up, there are loose ends which are to blame over some governments, possibly ours, in terms of ensuring the conditions for opening the museum. So two things must go hand in hand. The first thing is to ensure these conditions that the museum can be opened as soon as possible and the second thing is in objectivity - and I will come to your question - that an artistic director who meets all the strong and weak guarantees and in which a position in relation to this notice may obviously be taken by the former directors or directors of the museum. As to how to judge the outcome of the tender, I would like to assure the President and the House that it will not be under the mandate of the Minister. We intend to set up an institution, which, in parallel with the tender procedure, is set up by the necessary set of experts on the subject of the institution, modern art, of which the critical committee proposing the candidate or the predominant candidate - may be two, for example - to be responsible for a policy of the Minister throughout this procedure, for the Minister being obliged to choose one or one of the two proposed ones. That is the general principle. The fact that there has been a crisis puts us in a positive need to begin to see procedures for filling posts of artistic directors with criteria worldwide accepted, open outside borders, not because Greeks are worse, but so that non-Greeks can also participate in these competitions, etc. This is in terms of Article 66, which - I sum up - the current director's term of office to coincide with the end of the management board's term of office, with the very strong possibility that the museum might have been opened before the end of this term of office. At the same time, it will run - I repeat - the competition so that, with the end of the term of office of the board of directors and directors, there will be the new director in an open museum. The next article is the Athens Festival. You know there was a very big crisis there. We were delayed because the selection procedure for director, president, as he was called, at the Athens Festival is not a simple case, as it was not a simple case that the procedure that we had to do was not to stop Mr Luku's term of office. And here, then, we are moving towards a regulation which also facilitates the Festival and, possibly, - when we proceed to a more comprehensive regulation - and other relevant institutions, distinguishing the artistic director from the financial manager, the manager and the board of directors. As you may know - or if you don't know, I'm telling you - as was the law of this Festival, the president of the Festival had all these responsibilities gathered himself, i.e. he was chairman of the board, artistic director and so on. So the economic problems and legal problems that were raised in the Festival process were legal - I would say - confusing not so much responsibilities - but mainly competences, because a very important artistic director does not have to be an expert on legal, economic and administrative matters, so that a complex thing, such as the Athens Festival, can be satisfactorily run. This law distinguishes the artistic director. We define its responsibilities in such a way that they are not confused with the responsibilities of an economic or administrative director, and we believe that this provision, along with the previous one, also starts to create a new landscape for how artistic organizations can be run under the supervision of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, without confusing their responsibilities, and that their administrative and financial function and the work of artistic autonomy should be regarded as such on its own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u155	Is the choice of the artistic director of the Athens Festival going to be done by the same procedure? Are you going to have a competition?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u156	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u157	You have to tell us how it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u158	This has already been shown in the papers. It has already been officially announced by the Ministry of Culture that we have agreed with Mr Yan Farb to be the artistic director of the festival. In his honor, Mr Farb did not want to get involved with administrative or other responsibilities of the Greek state, which he does not know anyway. The festival has the possibility of ensuring, as a body of this type, powers to be exercised by the board of directors in principle. So, we did not have time - if you want - here to run an international competition mainly because - and here there is a very important problem of time - the festival begins at the end of June. His preparation process is very dense and difficult, and so we have not been able to proceed to an international competition, contrary to what may happen at the Museum of Contemporary Art.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u159	Okay. I respect my role and I do not go any further. I'm going to ask you a timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Teddy, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u162	I just want to ask the Minister something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u163	Mr Baltas will not leave because I have not been covered by the answers: Athens Festival, French artistic director, okay! Come on, Mr. Pappa. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Treasury, you will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u164	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Carras, I'll be on my way. Don't worry. The request was made by Mr Papapas and we give him the floor as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u166	Here, Mr. President, we have a German commander of NATO in the Aegean Sea...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u167	We move on, Mr. Pappas, because at the request of...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u168	Please, it's not on request. I haven't spoken since 10:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u169	Yes, but when no one has spoken, the parliamentary order is followed. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u170	I've never heard of that before. In the new parliamentary term you have not implemented it. If you want to apply it now, I will go down to apply the parliamentary order. I have a lot to say. I will also say on topical issues, because some honourable Members have referred to topical and urgent issues. They said it should become a government universal. In fact, the previous speaker said that the country is on its way to the rocks without a programme. I'll argue with him. The country and nation are really heading to a great national disaster and it is actually heading to the rocks, but with a programme that will agree tomorrow to the gathering of the accomplices. However, whatever happens tomorrow when the Council of Political Heads meets under the President of the Republic other than the Golden Dawn, it will be a decision to uphold my thought, Mr President. Watch me. It was enough, Mr President, for two hundred years - in five years' time, we will have the two hundred-year anniversary of the Greek, national revolution, the only nationalist revolution in the history of humanity - monarchy, two hundred years of dictatorship and parliamentaryism to destroy and destroy a nation with a history of thousands of years. Today's bill, Mr President, is about the Deposit and Investment Guarantee Fund. Everyone agrees and said 'yes'. Golden Dawn said 'no', not only because of the substance of the bill, as our rapporteur, Mr. Boeotias, Mr. Karakostas, has quite rightly explained, but because there are photographic provisions in this bill that we need to highlight and which are at the limit of tax evasion. It will be of great interest to see how all parties stand the systemics, the so-called 'constitutional arch', and whether they vote for the notorious Article 58. So what does this article say about the introduction of the company's shares into a regulated market, the investment company real estate? It states that the Securities and Markets Committee may, at the request of the company, extend the deadline for payment to twenty-four months from the expiry date in the event of force majeure. This is in thirty-six months. These are demonic things, which are done photographically in order to help your own people. You are doing this, the so-called left, who are supposed to stand by the people. I remember at this point where Mr Drasakis, Vice-President of your Government, who said he would bring all the names to the Greek Parliament, will the Government of SYRIZA. And what do we see instead? We see the government of SYRIZA with the "decique" Independent Greeks bringing bills with articles that are photographic to suit our own. To say something to understand it and the world that listens to us: What about it? It says that if the company has not succeeded in importing its shares into a regulated market within the time limits set out in paragraph 1, 2, etc., the Securities and Market Commission shall withdraw the authorisation and shall be wound up. That's what the companies want to avoid. This is done with Article 58, which means that these companies will have great tax benefits, while with the memoranda every day that the Greek people spend their time thinking about the tax storm on their heads. He wakes up in the morning, and he thinks about what he's going to feed his children, and you bring these lousy bills, which have other things. You are trying, through this article, to relieve these investment companies of real estate from HNVY. You yourself said: "We will abolish HISPIA when we go out to government." And not only have you abolished it, but you come with legislation now to offer companies free ownership of property. So the company's gonna pay-- be careful with a little bit, I don't want to confuse you with numbers, you're holding the item-0.01% of HISBIA. For terrible values, then, he will pay a minimum of ENVY when the Greek pays with his blood. Mr President, I would like to say that today we had the Prime Minister's statements at his meeting with Tusk. So Mr Tsipras said that Greece will not take on either fewer or more refugees than those corresponding to its population. And we ask: do you have a common line? You know what you say and what position are you taking on - as you say -'refugee'? I would like to ask how many, in other words, correspond to our population? One by one? Also, Tusk first thanked the Prime Minister in Greek for his formality. We're made with them. So Churchill also made us, "The heroes fight like Greeks" to lead us to a brotherly war and not to take anything as the winners of World War II. In any case, this is historic. I mean, then, Tusk spoke Greek, say good-bye, etc. He said that Europe would not leave Greece alone and sent out a message to refugees and immigrants. He said: "Don't risk your lives, don't waste your money. Greece will no longer be a transit country". He also asked them not to believe in the traffickers. What Mr Mouszalas also said, then, is that we will have a crisis for the next two - three years and that Greece will cease to be a country of transit, but it is now a country of destination. What exactly is your plan? Let me tell you. You don't have any plans. You're totally lost. One speaks of open borders, the other says that we are not a country of transit, the other, your famous Minister of State, Mr. Friend, is an announcement and is urging a large number of organisations, schools, unions: 'You are embracing your arms for refugees'. We see the lacrificial news reports in an organized and arranged psychological warfare operation to create images and situations reminiscent of the Persian Gulf cormorant for children. They direct most of them. We know how the channels work - sorry for the expression, "to center" is the right one - the reflexes of the Greeks who are always soulful and want to offer. But did you offer the Greeks who killed themselves for your own reasons, Right and Left, against thousands of them because of the Memorandum? Did they spend the same time on those who killed themselves because of the financial hardship? Not a word! And they dedicate every day to 20:00 a half an hour for the refugees. And you know what else? You are also hypocrites, because unaccompanied children who must go to both the UN and the ADAP have allowed them to cross the Skopje border. Unaccompanied guys! And there are solutions to you, and our Secretary-General, Nikos Michaloliacos, told you. The first solution is to ask the Greek people: Does he want to change the naturality of the Greek state, the Greek nation? Does he want to open up his arms and accept all kinds of inmates of the world? Greece can't take any more, gentlemen! It cannot stand any more refugees, immigrants, illegal immigrants - tell them as you wish - it cannot stand them! It is not possible for us to become Europe's dump of souls and miserable ones. You are also talking about the famous situation of Idomeni and the border with FYROM, with Skopje. There is a solution: Businessmen, who have no home - because capital has no home - to assume their responsibilities. Let the Greek Government press. Skopje is essentially supported by Greece. The economy of Skopje has support from Greece. To cut off this support in return. We should finally make an extortion. We will not always be the victims of the extortion of foreigners, the European Union and even the shape of Skopje. Let us say: 'Open the border, leave these people, otherwise you will have these consequences'. Also, at the moment there is a scandal that you confess yourself: Greece has turned into a huge hot spot. You want to disperse - and it's a relevant circular - into all the municipalities of the country immigrant. Do you not understand that these people, apart from being another race, other culture and culture, of other religion, cannot be integrated into Greek society? These people are cutting heads and showing them and photographed in social media! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. I am going to the platoon, but it is a very topical issue. Mr President, the small ones often judge the big ones. Just now this has happened, a Turkish challenge in the Strait of Isthmus. They terminated the Greek flag on Greek territory. He went through a Turkish ship without posting the Greek flag on his web, as he had to. Where are the porters, where are the Canal officers, where is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where is the Ministry of National Defence? I am presenting the relevant report in the Minutes, although it is of no value. There are such serious things going on in Greece, which would be the last. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You heard them, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and even systemic journalists, Hercules, of course - such as Portugal or Mrs Cossi, out of concern about the current president of the New Democracy, who said in a few weeks' time in the news report and opinion these people: "To take tanks down on the streets! Intrude the army!" That's what they said. ‘Where's the army?’ And it suits you all, so that you can get out again, as you came out in July 1974, to incite them all, to avoid and dismiss the responsibilities of the Greek people with an intervention of the army. Mr President, in my last speech before the construction of the New Democracy and Antonis Samaras against the Golden Dawn on Friday, 27 September - they were the last words I had said from this Step - I said: 'Down with the Greek army'. The Greek army belongs to the nation, it has no political orders, it belongs to the Greek people. Mr President, I shall table an extremely interesting document. I want you to see it with great care. It is the document of the European People's Party, a party to which the New Democracy belongs, which, in cooperation with the organisation of the Turks of Western Thrace and the organization of the various non-registered nations and nationalities, together with various Greek traitors in the NGOs, reluctant peoples, etc., organised an event yesterday in the European Parliament. This event was denounced by the MPs at the head of our MP, who had the misfortune of losing his child in the field of honour, Lambro Fountouli. So the generals, together with Fountoulis, took the lead in not making this event and denounced it. It was not denounced by any of your Members. You're the real patriots.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u171	Finish it, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u172	I'll be done. I would therefore like to present this document, because it is characteristic of what toys are going on and what position the so-called opposition, the so-called 'New Democracy', is taking. You're a past and you know it. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the Parliament is organized and operated, forty-one students and three educational sessions from the 4th High School (B') Stavroupolis Thessaloniki. Stavroupolis has its honour today! The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kurublis has asked for the floor. Five minutes is enough, Mr. Kurubli?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u174	There's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u175	You have five minutes, Minister, to support your two amendments, but with the request that you remain in this House for a while, because the parliamentary representatives may wish to supplement or have a representative on them. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, I think that these are two amendments which I believe will benefit from the positive position of the parties. Amendment No 279 concerns a regulation on the basis of which we can supplement the money to the EBRD in order to ensure the costs of operating the programme for children's stations. It is a supplementary programme, which has been launched for a number of years and which must be supported, because it is necessary for these children to be able to receive treatment at nurseries, because, ladies and gentlemen, research has been carried out both here and abroad and in the United States shows that the presence of a child at the nursery has enabled him to have five times a better professional rehabilitation than a child who has not had this fate and to participate seven times less in a criminal act than a child who has not gone. This shows the quality characteristics of the child service offer. I think, therefore, that we are in favour of supporting this programme. The second amendment, Mr President, number 276, concerns arrangements in the light of the Schengen Treaty, which are deemed necessary for buildings and infrastructure at the border for years and which require the legalisation of the operation as infrastructure. At the same time, decentralised administration is allowed to go ahead with the necessary arrangements to ensure that the competent authorities of the Schengen Convention are properly monitored at the border posts and that there is no problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a few words about the current topicality, which has to do with the refugee problem. Refugee is a problem that found Greece, a global problem now, because the dimensions it has taken from the Middle East are precisely characterising it, because it is the greatest movement of people after the Second World War. Unfortunately, because of its geographical position, the country, in this particular case, has to face this evil reality. The Greek people, however, have once again demonstrated that they carry a long history of culture and humanism. Despite the economic and social crisis, once again, humanism is above all appropriate. The Greek state, the Greek society in every way demonstrates its support for these devastated people, because we have also lived for refuge. I'm sure most of us are here, we're from refugee families, so we know what refugee means. The Greek state has therefore made up 80% of its commitments and commitments to a policy implemented by the European Union, which is too deficit. We believe that the issues that need to be raised at the summit will be raised. After the meeting of the political leaders, which will take place tomorrow under the President of the Republic, I believe that a national proposal will be tabled by all the political parties so that, having created a single front on a very crucial issue, all Greeks can face it as a whole. I must tell you that all the social institutions - and the first degree of self-government and the second degree of selfgovernment and the church and voluntary organisations - are better coordinated day by day, so that we can really limit the effects and effects of this very large and serious social problem, which is now becoming national dimensions. I would therefore like to ask at least on this issue that we join forces, because the concept of patriotism is of value here. For uniting the forces of our nation on such a big issue, it is certain that its effects may be less. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] So invoking patriotism is worth only when at the moment on such issues we can do our utmost, of course, in the context of our democracy. This is the beauty of democracy, that is to say, having disagreements, contradictions and different approaches. This shows up many times and the most useful through dialogue. As far as this issue is concerned, however, I would like to ask all the parties in Parliament to find a common place, because that is the only way we will have, I believe, contributed to limiting any impact that has on this problem. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u178	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I shall begin with the amendment tabled by the Minister, Amendment No 286. Since you have invoked it, Minister, and with regard to Schengen, I must tell you that the decision of the New Democracy is not to vote on the amendment, because perhaps there is an urgent one, there is no unpredictable one. I would like to ask you - not just for the parliamentary order, but for mere legitimacy - and for this. When you bring environmental provisions from which you are explicitly requesting an exception, a fundamental parliamentary task is to sign the Minister for the Environment. I don't see the signature of the Minister for the Environment here. I see the wide and legitimate signature of Mr Euklidis Tsakalotou. I'll talk about immigration later. I now come to the issues of the current legislation, which the New Democracy is voting for. I believe that the legislation has been fully implemented - and it will be secondary - by the diligent rapporteur of the Officerate, Mr Christos Dimas. I just want to make two comments on what Mr Juliarakis said here earlier. Mr Juliarakis, first of all you have presented a very good picture of the progress of the negotiations. You did tell us, if I understood correctly, that the essence is that only the International Monetary Fund is left, which, of course, I imagine you also agree to have very wide divergences from what you believe. Besides, it's all about it. Beyond my wish to quickly end up not, of course, on the basis of your proposal on insurance and taxation - because for us your proposals on insurance and taxation are unacceptable, but in any case - I would like to say that Mr Diaselblum made statements today and you can find them on the Internet, with which he does not share your optimism and states clearly that you have made very little progress on reform. On the wider issue of the Greek economy, I should like to say two things: firstly, that in the budget, which was not voted on last year, your forecast does not contain any elements of recession. On the contrary, the Greek economy has moved in a recession in 2015 - you too are now confessing - and, in fact, most likely, the rate that you, 0.3%, are inaccurate, even though we do not accept the much more aggressive position of the International Monetary Fund on a recession of 2%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u179	It's an estimate of ELSTAT. It's not ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u180	This does not mean that it will be accepted until the end of the day. I know what you're gonna tell me. You can imagine that what you tell me sotto voce and courteously is predictable. But I'm telling you, you've succeeded in returning the Greek economy to recession anyway. And that makes no difference how it emerges from statistical figures, even though we are all in agreement. It has too much to do with the way that the average man perceives his life. Now I come to something that matters to me. You want a profession, where I'm a law firm? However, I think it is of enormous importance to most of my fellow Members, to Parliament's decency. Ladies and gentlemen of the government would you like to tell us, if you have any kindness, how do you legislate? What are you serious about? Because when we have an amendment to the draft law on L.4368/2016, which was passed a few days ago, and it has to do with a large number of changes within the legislature and with correction of errors, this, at best, states for you complete indifference about its legislative work and its quality and, in another case, complete contempt for the National Representation. To say this simply, what is being done by the government, ladies and gentlemen, is not serious. It passes legislation in urgent, urgent, midnight and in changing days, in order to make it convenient for the Prime Minister's programme to come to the National Representation, in his own way and off-legislative manner, to address the National Representation, and the texts that bring about wrongs, omissions and legal imperfections. And three days later the government comes with a number of changes and changes the laws that she had just recommended. And we must put this together with an event that is unprecedented. The current government has voted for most of the amendments so far than it has voted for at the same time any government possibly post-military. But I have to tell you that our investigation has stopped around 1985. But we'll look into it until 1974 to make sure. It's not the way you legislate. You despise the National Representation and despise the National Representation, you are actually despising national and popular sovereignty because it is expressed in this Chamber. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the government is also causing the Greek people. We have in Greece unemployment of 24.6% on the official index. Yesterday the New Democracy issued a communication. I do not want to refer to a particular person, because I never do so in my duties and in the National Representation. It's not personal. However, I am presenting the Official Journal of the Government for the newly recruited Special Adviser to the service of the Prime Minister of Greece. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I ask you: A person's perception of life is absolutely free, but is someone serious who has written for 11 September that it is an art project that, if he did not have human victims, would be a masterpiece? And even if he has written that the symbols chosen by the perpetrators, whoever they are, give political symbolism to the strike of 11 September and did not leave a statement that twin towers are a global stock trading centre, that the Pentagon is a militarism laboratory, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a headquarters of imperialist politics and the White House as intent? Ladies and gentlemen, is the Government of the Hellenic Republic a serious government, so that I know? Is it possible that any man has expressed - and his right to express what he wants in any case - these views, that he should be appointed with a Government Journal Leaf in the service of the Prime Minister of Greece and that the Prime Minister of Greece should consider him to be taking any foreign government seriously after that? Are these things serious at the moment we are living today? So you think we're going to face the crisis? You give this meaning to the armies of the unemployed outside this Chamber, that necessary recruitment and success in life - why do I imagine serving the highest politician, not the state, is judged to be a success in life, as we in this Chamber at least - is putting these views on the Internet and on life? These are not serious, ladies and gentlemen. These are not serious things, and I tell you with every kindness. I come to Mr Balta's place earlier. I do not understand what the Ministry of Culture and the Minister of Culture is doing. I am presenting a question by Mr Venizelos and the answer he gave then by the Minister for Culture. The question and answer to Mr Luco was then mentioned. The answer to the question then assures the Ministry of Culture that as regards the criteria for selecting people the past was problematic, because the Minister cannot define the cultural course of one, for example, a state theatre, prescribing the choice of one or other and that the political leadership is studying objective ways of defining the heads of public cultural organizations. This is what she did here today, and I did not understand, chose and recommended to the National Representation some way of objective selection of artistic directors or chose by the government on any of its own criteria and charged us with an extra post and an extra payroll to meet its own perception? That, to figure out what is finally going on in this Chamber. What message does this government send? I put the question and the answer. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I end up in the immigration - refugee. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard too much of what the current Minister, Mr Kourublis, said. What I have to say to you is that my view is that the situation in the country is totally unacceptable and does not honor the Hellenic Republic and does not honor the government either. What I see is people with no help in roaming in the country, young children walking around the squares of Athens and there is no constituted state body that faces this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have warned you - and I personally - of the huge mistakes you make with the non-conservation of borders. That, however, is a matter. We will discuss this tomorrow at the Conference of Political Heads. We have a specific proposal, we've submitted it to you, we'll give it back to you, and we'll tell you how it's done. But there is another issue here. Anyone who is within the framework of the Hellenic Republic, even the illegally invaded, has rights, ladies and gentlemen, any rights recognised by the Constitution and the laws of the country. Right now these people don't enjoy any right. They are fed and survive either thanks to the charity of any non-governmental organisations or supported by any structure and in any way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u181	What did you say? I'm sorry. Is it possible to say these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u182	What I'm saying, Minister, is probably what you hear unless you don't trust your hearing, but then I'll tell you again. We have a duty, as a state, to have a serious system to deal with these people, which means food, care and safeguarding these children. They can't turn thousands of children back to Greece, right and left,
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u183	Thousands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u184	...without care for them, other sick, but without milk, but without food and proud of the charity of the Greeks. Where's the Greek state? Where is the Greek state? I'm clearly involved in my term of office at the Ministry of National Defence...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u185	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u186	I would suggest that you, Minister, stop asking me what I am saying, why are you listening, or you wouldn't ask what I'm saying? Since my term of office at the Ministry of National Defence, I know that the Greek Army, if I remember the number well, has about seventy-two or a hundred seventy-three cooking campaigns. Is there any of these in Idomeni and I don't know about it? Is the picture in Victoria Square, where the Red Cross or various non-governmental organisations - other by good, other by evil, this is another issue - supposedly the care of the state, are honouring our country? To understand, how do we currently understand our obligation as a structured and constitutionally guaranteed state? We need to talk seriously. The government must leave easy humanism and do its constitutional duty to take care of these people in the way that a serious and organised state would take care of them. And because it seems that the government does not know, I tell you that there was a whole design, under the name 'John', for numbers up to 100 thousand, with templates on how to ask for assistance from other states from the European Commission from the Civil Protection Commissioner. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you're kind, Madam President, give me a minute. This presentation was made public. There were then contacts with Krystalina Georgieva, the then Commissioner responsible for Civil Protection, so that we could also have an initial coordination from the European Union. Apart from the issues relating to border guards - which are absolutely essential and I can come back - and apart from the issues relating to asylum and the strengthening of the Agency, which SYRIZA ignores, while you are serving human rights, apart from the First Reception Service you are missing, while you are showing that you are guarding human rights, I tell you to be serious and caring for people who are within the borders of this country. What you are doing is not at all serious and they are not honoring our country, destroying Greek tourism, endangering the lives and health of these people. These do not honor our homeland. And indeed, if you get serious and if you want our help, we are always here to help either with our advice or more practically, if you want to. But, above all, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, and especially of the Government, please be serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u187	Madam President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u188	What do you want, Mr. Kurubli?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u189	Can I have the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u190	Why? Do you want to say something about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u191	Yes, I will also say about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u192	If it is for the amendments, I will give you two minutes, although I see that you have spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u193	Thank you. Mr. Dendia, you sincerely surprised me with a lack of memory. I ask you: have these buildings, for which you are not voting on the amendment, been built by the current government? I'm asking you. So you're also inducing our intelligence! Are these border buildings, which we now legalise, built with environmental licenses from previous governments, which were also Minister and Minister? And are you coming now and saying 'we are not voting on this amendment'? These buildings have been built for five, ten, fifteen, twenty, thirty years. We didn't build them now. We are trying to deal with a problem that you know well, and you come and say 'We are not voting for environmental reasons on this amendment'. It's impressive! Now, as far as the refugee is concerned, you are constantly linking the refugee to tourism. And this is an offer at home, the way you connect it? So the thousand people who are in Victoria Square and the other two thousand in Limani are the people who care for the Greek state in so many places throughout Greece? So I think it would be a good thing to avoid overdoing, because we are not doing good either in our party or in Greece. Because the link between the tourists and the refugee in Kos, you know very well what had to do with their country. I would therefore inform you, Mr Dendia, that when the Mayor of Mytilini came to a meeting and such a position was said which linked tourism to the refugee was too negative. So it would be useful and useful for all of us to have a measure. Okay, opposition is, you have a free right to say your views and your positions, but to have a measure is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u194	Madam President, I would like to speak on the position to be taken on the amendment. I'm not going to say anything about the other one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u195	Will you say something about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u196	Just explain to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u197	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u198	Minister, excuse me. I come back so we don't get wrong. I will only say on the amendment. I do not think the remarks on immigration need to be answered. I am referring to your amendment. I'm sorry, so let me get this straight, that's why I'm a lawyer. Do you legalize buildings without the signature of the Minister of the Environment? You tell me if that's what you can do. If you claim that you can do that, too, I am mistaken to ask for the signature of the Minister of the Environment and then to look into the matter, you can tell me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Dendia, you know all the public buildings how they've been building all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u200	That's not an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u201	You don't know that? You know it! From that point on, if you know, I'm not saying anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u202	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u203	Mrs Antonopoulou has the floor for two amendments. Mrs. Antonopoulou, is that a good time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u204	Where are you going, Mr. Kurubli? Where are you going? Be seated in support of your legislative techniques that you bring to the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u205	Here, Mrs Antonopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the amendment that I tabled under a general number 278 and a specific number 61. This amendment provides for an extension of the time spent on social work programmes, to be implemented in order to meet some of the needs at the refugee reception points. I do not need, I think, to use particular arguments to support the need to staff the refugees' reception points. Our country has borne the burden of facing a huge humanitarian crisis and has responded. Greece fulfils and fulfils its moral obligation under the present Treaties. But it is certain that it cannot respond on its own, that it needs support from the allies and partners. This support has been requested, I would say that it has been demanded and on Monday and Tuesday coming next week are very important days, because we are waiting for developments. However, until this support is given, we must exhaust all the means we have, all the resources that we can activate, to deal with the refugee. This is because we need local society, as much as we need to deal with the refugee problem of course, to be able to deal with the problems that arise. This amendment is therefore part of the general strategic planning of the government. In this design, all of us, with all our powers in the ministries, must contribute. Thus, the Ministry of Labour has undertaken this project and its implementation. The logic of guaranteed employment in the programmes for tackling unemployment in general - I am given the opportunity to say this now - is reflected in the new generation of public works programmes, which will be implemented pilotly in seventeen municipalities in the country, which are the enclaves of the highest and long-term unemployment and, in a second phase, in another thirty-two municipalities and then extended throughout the country. These programmes will last for eight months and not five as it has been. So we want this programme which will now be included in the support of the refugee to have the same duration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Antonopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u208	Madam President, please, I would like to take the floor on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u209	You'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u210	I want to talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u211	No, you will then speak as a parliamentary representative. This is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u212	No, now I want to talk 'cause then the ministers will leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u213	And the rest of the Members of Parliament want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u214	To comply with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u215	What Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u216	To comply with the Rules of Procedure, because we have been ridiculed by the ministers. They cannot bring amendments to the House at the last minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u217	No, that's not in the Rules of Procedure. Have a seat, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u218	No amendments can be made at the last minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u219	He didn't bring them now, he's given them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u220	With the parallel programme, we were confused by the government and we voted for provisions - which we had no intention of - for humanitarian reasons, and today it tells us that they did not know them? Well, that's incompetent. Is that possible? That's incompetent!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u221	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor. It's your turn, isn't it? Are you coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u222	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u223	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u224	The Minister for the Interior said to avoid excesses. Remuneration. I wonder: This, ladies and gentlemen, which he said in an interview with him, saying that it is okay for free professionals to make a protest, lose a pound, a joke! - Is it part of the field of exaggeration, elegance and rhetoric? Which place does it belong to? Finally, has the Minister of Interior realised that there is a huge problem for the country - I do not want to go back to time now - with the issue of immigration - refugee and that if we do not highlight the problems, delays and mistakes, the country is in danger? Is she making a review of us? What is it, Opposition? He's a minister. Instead of joking with the protesters, he has to see his obligations. And first of all, to conclude, what Mr Denkias has put in is serious. To take the amendment back, which legalises construction in border regions without the Minister for the Environment has signed. Get her back now and bring her to a next draft law, with all the signatures. And if the Minister for the Environment avoids signing, signing with pain, as you have learned to say, covering inconsistencies and yourself the same person who has been lying for many years. Minister, have you realised what your colleagues are saying to the government for a hundred and fifty thousand refugees - immigrants and these? Do you consider the international experience, which Mr Mouszalas, a reporter, reports about Greece, which is similar to other countries that have accepted refugee flows? Do you know what Lebanon means? Do you have the story in mind? Do you know what Jordan means? In Zatari, a refugee reception centre built for ten thousand people in 2013, within three years we had five thousand births and today, at the moment along with the additional ones, are numbering eighty thousand. Do you understand what theme you're playing with, what theme you're dealing with, what theme is in your responsibilities? Instead of insinuating, politicizing and avoiding poaching. Madam President, in just one second of the vote on a draft law - the draft law by Mr Kurublis, who was not here to support it, was supported by Mr Vernardakis - there was an amendment 'from the air' - no one understood it in this Chamber, and no Minister explained it - and it replaced an article where Members were added, ladies and gentlemen, thirty-three secretaries to the Ministries! And we made a complaint. He has made a complaint with Mr Kegeroglou all our parliamentary group. Mr. Vouches has agreed to consider the matter. You are putting today - and you are not saying a word about this - Mr Vernardakis accepting a 'parliamentary amendment' that changes the title of the provision in which he has been invaded, irregularly, despite parliamentary law - is a smuggling, ladies and gentlemen! - and adapts him to the new content. It declares the positions without a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. Are you all right? Are you ministers? Is that a government? Are those who say that the biggest problem for the country, even from the refugee, is it you? What are these things? You need to take a seat here. You fooled the House! No government has done that. You fooled the House! And you come today to balance things with a so-called parliamentary amendment, which you are accepting. You are the Minister responsible and Mr Bernardakis and the subject matter. Instead of giving up this House, you should assume your obligations. And it's not a slap, ladies and gentlemen. It is inconsistent and deliberate smuggling, because the thirty-three administrative secretaries are the party state, which has come to balance the supposed reforms they have made in the opposite direction. He'll take the floor to tell us that, instead of the Minister going away. I am now referring to his main topic today. We have listened with great interest to Mr Chakaloto at the beginning of the meeting. Mr Juliarakis then gave us a picture of the country's progress towards evaluation. With the intervention of Mr Cremastinos, who was chairing at that time and asked for a timetable, he said that he cannot commit itself in time. Two days ago in a TV interview, the Prime Minister pledged. He gave timelines. What's the matter with both of you? Who are you talking to? This is National Representation. And if we monitor Mr. Juliarakis' positions then, ladies and gentlemen, the issues have been closed, he says, and there is a deadline in the medium term for 2018. With what insurance? What does the Greek Parliament and the Greek society know? With what tax? With what measures to correct and cover the deficits of '15 and '16? With what policies have they closed down their conversation, if that's true? I don't trust anything of them if I don't see. With what policies? In the context of a process, ladies and gentlemen, which repeats the first stages of Varoufakia No1, the country, for its economy, that is to say for the bread of the people. We question everything with regard to a government that contradicts every day, a government that says through the relevant Minister 'we close the evaluation', and the National Representation does not know either with which insurance or with which tax is to be taxed or with which medium-term and basic lines. Full opacity! I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of political deception and it is the biggest problem in the country that this government is creating. Lies, delays, hypocrisy instead of politics, jokes of Minister Kurubli, nominations of people in Maximos - right? - with what this symbolizes, who found artwork on September 9th and the terrorist action there and so on. I think, ladies and gentlemen, because I have a recent memory - and we must all have a hypocrisy monument to sign an agreement with tabours in Maximos, with the 'PHILLIP MORRIS' for the absorption of thirty thousand tons of tobacco. When this had started to happen three years ago, the then Minister responsible for rural development and now Minister, Mr Apostolos, had tabled a question denounced by the then government and then Minister Tsatari on this contractual agricultural investment. He was denounced. It was a long question filled with peaks and reproach. And now he's doing the same thing, that is, he's doing the same thing with fairs in Maximos! Are they ministers and they at least do not have an internal question of shame that leads them to at least these lies and their contradictions to do so in a way that does not seem to those who remember them, to those who lived in this House three years ago and remember well? I would also like to present his question and the celebrations, so that every Member of Parliament can see what is going on here with these people. I am presenting them for the Minutes of Parliament, so that each Member may have them in mind. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members, something very serious, even more serious. We had a few months ago in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, that is to say, its colleagues in June 2015, an issue concerning the appointment of members to the RAE, the Energy Regulatory Authority. I am addressing the President of the House by my presence at the moment, Mr. Voutsis. The Special Standing Committee on Institutions and Transparency with its Report, as confirmed by the then President, Zoe Konstantopoulou, was positively expressed for a member of RAE administration and the necessary majority, ladies and gentlemen, for the President and Vice-President of this authority, was not gathered. And with a document to the relevant Ministry, Minister being Mr Lafazanis, Mrs Konstantopoulou has confirmed the voting data in a very characteristic and concrete way, as does all the Presidents of Parliament do when they send such documents. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry has appointed the two persons concerned, President and Vice-President of the RAE, illegally, manifestly illegally! I cannot understand - and I do not want to discuss - the individual issues relating to the interpretation of the RAE's legislative framework, which led to this bicoloral version of appointment. Because we are here in Parliament, we are operating on the basis of our Rules of Procedure and Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure states exactly how the decisions are taken in the Committees of Parliament. This article has been applied as it has always been applied. The then President of Parliament, as he was responsible, sent the relevant report of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and the Ministry did other than the one laid down by the law. Every RAE act since then has been incapacitated. I repeat, every act of this regulator for such a serious area is inseparable. I call on the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, who was not involved in all of this, to send back to the new leadership - 'new', in any case - the subsequent leadership of the Ministry of Energy, the decision of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, to correct this inconsistency and political barbarism. I warn you that in any case we will raise this issue in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, because it is so obvious that there is no respect for the independent authorities that go no further. National Telecommunications and Post Commission, Radio and RAE Council. You don't want the independent authorities. It's obvious. You want them for party stores. But you can't break the law! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, because I do not have time to cover all the issues I have in mind, I would like to make a reference, asking, ladies and gentlemen, to withdraw in your recent memory certain issues relating to the so-called - God to do so, of course - 'a parallel programme'. I would remind the Parliamentary Representatives of the parties how much we have tried to persuade the Ministries to correct some flaws in regulating the health care of the uncertain. I am not going back to the same subject. We criticised this issue at the time. The refusal to accept our interventions, which were improved and recognizably and experienced, was universal. There was no change either by the Ministry of Labour or by the Ministry of Health who was responsible for the bill. I remember Mr. Kegeroglu yelling. We haven't heard. A few days later, at another draft law, they brought an amendment to correct the sinful one, which we stressed. And that is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, but today they have another late Ministerial amendment, with a series of regulations and improvements to the law that they voted on a few days ago. It's a prank. Ladies and gentlemen, there is neither a parentheses nor what everyone has said so far marks this government. It is a farce that, if it did not have such tragic repercussions in our country, our country, the Greeks and the Greeks, one could laugh at them. Sadly, however, the situation is so tragic that it has no right to be joking or laughing, but to try to sort out what is set together. People are asking us to do something. Greece, however, has a democracy here. We can do nothing more than say bad texts and highlight the problems. In any case, they are, ladies and gentlemen, a government elected four months ago. Let them be serious and rule this place! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u225	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u226	Here you go, Mrs. Antonopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u227	Thank you. I should like to reply to Mr Carras, because I think that with this intense style, he was probably referring to what I had just said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u228	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u229	So let me explain, Mr. Carras. With coolness and without shouting, we can get to know each other. You know I'm trying to keep some low tones. Let me explain what happened. With regard to the socially beneficial work on the refugee issue, this was planned. What we are doing with the amendment is to extend it for three months. Our government had promised that the five months were over as soon as we got out. It took me eight - nine months to negotiate with the European Union, with the committee responsible and gave me the approval recently. The new programs that come out of here are eight months old. So I come to meet the request of those who have been unemployed so far and said, "But you have told us five months. When will they be extended?’ We did it. We are therefore coming in addition to a programme set up with the rest that existed since the previous operational year of 2007-2013, to 'health' a small piece with the extension of three months. I imagine that you will not be against the unemployed, but in the refugee area we will be able to contribute with all our powers and the poor resources that the country has. So the amendment is now coming to serve this purpose. It is not that we did not know, nor that we did not want it, and that is why we did not include it. It's about when we got the approval to extend the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u230	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u231	What do you want, Mr. Kurubli? Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u232	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u233	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Madam President. The parties of counter-population and the Euromonstrate are now lifting up because, on the one hand, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government not only copys the substance, content and orientation of the policy they themselves applied from the country's position of governance, New Democracy, PASOK, but also their "parafis", Potami and the Central Association, but also copys them in the form in which this policy is conducted. For example, the dozens of amendments on unrelated issues which, in the form of an avalanche, come to the bills, but also the way in which this policy is managed through the transformation of state structures and services from their duties with a new party state on the part of SYRIZA in the position of what New Democracy and PASOK had shaped in the context of the urban state. On the other hand, the voices both on the part of the government through its ministers and the other parties have been omitted, in relation to the management of the so-called humanitarian crisis or the humanitarian attitude shown by Greece on the major issue of the refugee and immigration issue. The only phrase that would characterize you is: "Whee, hypocrites, and Pharisees!" Yes, because both the government and the opposition parties are hypocrites and Pharisees, when they talk about the need to take measures to protect immigrants, to protect refugees, because you are on the perpetrators side. Are you or are you not the perpetrators of these peoples, those people who are forced to take the path of refugee and immigration? You are the victims of Greece participating in the Imperialist organisations, NATO and the European Union. So it is because these imperialist organisations are bombing, making imperialist raids and interventions, shaping the conditions for us to have this wave of immigrants and refugees. You're getting past this as if nothing could happen. The United States, NATO, European Union displays strong competition with Russia in Syria over who will control the region and its wealthy sources. This competition, these imperialist interventions have led to the specific currents of refugees and immigrants. And do you play it indifferent to all these crimes that are being committed to these peoples when you are participating in these agencies? Does Greece or not participate in the plans and decisions of the European Union, the deeply inhuman and anti-immigrant? Dublin II is a European Union decision with the agreement of the Greek Government at the time. The Schengen Treaty is a decision of the European Union with participation at that time and with the current acceptance of the governments. But also in today's management of the problem with the decisions known in October, Mr Tsipras, who, in this context, is blatantly violating the Geneva Treaty, because he does not recognize the Afghans as refugee status, for example. On the basis of these decisions, did Greece not turn into a soul store where tens of thousands of refugees and immigrants will wait for a long time through the selection of these minimums travelling to other countries in the hot spots? Has the Greek Government not accepted NATO's participation in the management - supposedly - of migration flows? They're making the wolf guard the sheep. The one who is involved in the bombing and raids, the one that creates the wave of immigrants and refugees, at the same time also limiting the flow. Where do you say that? But they are the main demands for NATO's participation, on the one hand, to be able to have a much stronger presence of NATO as a counterweight to the Russian attitude in Syria and, on the other hand, to make the co-management of the Aegean under the umbrella of American sovereignty much faster. That is why this decision of NATO's role leads to a direct question of borders and territorial integrity in the country. Today, the Prime Minister was revealing at his meeting with Mr Tusk. On the one hand, Mr Tusk said that Greece is not a transit country, so it is a country of residence for immigrants and refugees, and, on the other, Mr Tsipras, accepting this role of Greece, talked about the need for the European Union to finance with additional funds for Greece. Only, of course, that these funding will go through the so-called 'non-governmental organisations', which we know very well about their role and the immigration issue, particularly many of them. So the JRC in this policy cannot consent and will not consent. Our position on these issues is quite different from the decisions of the European Union: On the one hand, we say that Greece must be released from these imperialist organisations, NATO and the European Union. To denounce the imperialist raids in the wider region, not to become more involved in the bucket of competitions and oppositions, bringing the risk of a general war ignition to its neighborhood. On the other hand, as far as the management of immigration is concerned, we are talking about direct transfer of migrants and refugees from the first countries. It's not Greece, it's the first station country. It's Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon. And those who remain in Greece, with the responsibility of both the Greek Government and the UN, should be transported directly to the countries of final destination through the provision of corresponding travel documents, in violation of the Schengen Treaty. At the same time, we say about the creation of open spaces for the temporary, minimum necessary stay that they should have, where they are provided with accommodation, nutrition, health care and whatever is necessary and necessary for human living and living. These are, therefore, the issues and this is the position of the JRC which, on the one hand, expresses internationalism against the oppressed imperialist interventions and, on the other hand, highlights the issue of the common opponent between Greek workers and migrants and refugees, in the context of the response to the extreme right-wing rhetoric, to fascist and nazi rhetoric. Of course, the Government, and through the mouth of Mr Tsakalotou at the beginning of the meeting, is engaging all this in the framework and is trying to use it to speed up the process of successful evaluation by the quartet of the government's performances, in the context of its commitments to implement the third memorandum. An assessment that will lead to the acceleration and escalation of the anti-population attack, both in terms of demolition of the social character of insurance, tax raid and a series of promotion of reactionary and anti-popular reforms in the name of the armoring of the competitiveness of monopolistic groups and capitalist profitability. I mean, he's gonna do everything. It gives promises to the so-called 'Institutions' and to large capital, that it will continue in every way to support the political needs and interests of monopolistic groups. And it is not an exception to today's draft law to incorporate the European directive on the CEEC. What's her agony? After the recapitalisation of taking new measures to shield the financial system in the country, much more account being taken of the risks and concerns that exist, in terms of the progress of the International Financial System, but also in the context of the sharp competitions that are taking place within the European Union in the name of promoting Euro-Union banking integration, with the pretext of safeguarding deposits. Did the pain catch you to secure the statements? What statements? The ones who made wings abroad, legal or non-legal? What statements? The ones that do not exist today, the people's savings? Oh, no. You want to shield the financial system, which is why you are turning any people's savers, any popular savings, essentially into investors and shareholders of banking activities. Therefore, in the event of resolution of the financial system, they will also participate, as small depositors or grand depositors, independently, in the resolution process of the financial system through bail in. What funds do you guarantee these deposits with? With the 3.5 billion that is the CEEC reserve when there's a big bank bankruptcy? Can he? Since he doesn't have the necessary funds. What do you say you're safeguarding? And at the bottom of the script, why are you excluded from protecting the deposits of social security institutions? A new haircut, therefore, will be subjected by the first euro to the deposits of social security institutions, for example. This is what we put in place, that the deposits of social security institutions should be excluded and protected as a whole and no matter what amount, not only up to 100,000. Because it's the money of the insured who's put it in the insurance funds. On the other hand, the anti-grassman of the government is confirmed by the following fact: you have not yet been placed in the amendments tabled by the JRC. There is a known amendment from 2012 for workers in insurance banks that have been withdrawn from their authorisation. Then, in 2012, the Deputy Minister, Mr Economou, had accepted it and after half an hour, with direct intervention by Mr Papademos, this acceptance led to the rejection of the JRC's amendment. And in December, Mr Tsakalotos - who had submitted this amendment for the ninth time - said that he is seeing it and that he will deal with it immediately after the recapitalisation. And today we hear whispers that all of this cannot be done on the legislative initiative, but that we leave it to the banks, the Bank of Greece, the Banks Union, if it will absorb all these workers. Are some children of lower god? Why have the workers of the Cooperative Peloponnese, whose license has been revoked recently, because it has failed to achieve the recapitalisation, been absorbed by the banks that absorbed the positive assets of the Cooperative Bank, while the specifics of the Achaean Cooperative and the Lamia Cooperative leave them out of this whole process? Because you want to ensure, because this process of merger will continue in the financial system, that banks will be able to absorb these workers more easily and to fire them. That's why you don't do it, and that's why you're keeping this posture. On the other hand, you're hypocrites. On the one hand, the Prime Minister comes out and says "we will not apply the criminal persecutions against the struggling farmers, workers or self-employed" and on the other hand, when he table an amendment to the JRC that invalidates the legal framework imposed by the chasing, criminalising workers' struggles, poor medium-sized farmers and self-employed people, who do not know anything, keep, that is, intact, a legislative framework which allows the fights to be criminalised and you say that you do not have a responsibility for the blood that runs or for the abolition of the excise duty on wine. This is enough to highlight the classic character of government policy, the deeply anti-grassy character. The rest is just for consumption, trying to encapsulate popular discontent within the system and at the same time to manipulate the working people's movement in the need to organise even more effectively, in more dynamic forms, the controversy of government policy in the context of the overall politicalization of the struggle for special ruptures and overthrows that Greek society and the Greek people need today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u235	Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u236	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Kurublis before asking for the floor, you didn't see it and he left. If we do not take seriously the problem of the formal fault that Mr Tsironis has not signed, and he does not tell us two words at least on the issue of the lack of a report by the General Accounting Office for a 30-three-seat notice, we are thinking of doing nominal. Well, because now is not the time to upset this House, please very much ask the government to give us an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u238	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the High Schools of Megalochori and Calvias Trikala. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the incorporation of an extremely important directive, of Directive 2014/49/EU, which ensures the harmonisation of Greek citizens' deposit guarantee systems. It is important, because it will have a positive effect on restoring the confidence of the citizens in the Greek financial system, trust that has been critically injured in the governance of the first time left, as signalled by the blurred outflow of deposits to the outside or the layers, namely that of the government whose destructive experiments have been stopped by the equally destructive imposition of capital controls. The situation, of course, has already been very difficult. Only in the last eight years, when the Greek crisis started, did we have a cumulative fall in GDP of 26%, with deflation reaching 30% of the country's GDP. These are unthinkable economic losses that can be compared in a time of peace only with the great recession in the United States in '29, but also with the Baimar era in Germany after World War I. However, valid foreign investment houses agree that only the so-called Varoufakis effect had a negative impact estimated at 7% of GDP by the end of 2016. The impact on debt is estimated at an additional 25% of GDP, if we of course add the long-term cost of rescuing the banks, which is the sole result of the unresolved manipulations of the former Minister, what the Prime Minister just yesterday, at last, described as nonsense. We are pleased that the Prime Minister has reached so close to our conclusions, even with such a delay that it has cost so much. With Greece back to 1997 levels, it must be understood, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that there is no time for experimentation. The refugee immigration crisis which comes to a burden on the already highly critical situation in which the country is already out of control. It is necessary to find a common way to deal with this crucial national issue. The suspicion the government encounters on any initiative, whether internal or external, is not unjustified. The contradictions, lies and attempting to exploit critical situations create a climate that mathematically leads the country to a dead end rather than to a solution. You're required to speed up. You should be concerned, for example, about the fact that the College of Commissioners yesterday approved EUR 700 million in aid to deal with the real humanitarian crisis at this moment, most of which will be exploited within Greek borders, but on the other hand, you have tried to allocate money directly to non-governmental organisations and not to the Greek Government and you have not reacted to it. You accept it. They do not trust you because they consider that the Greek Government does not have the administrative capacity to manage the money. Is it unfair? What credibility do you build when, for example, you plan a hospitality center in Tritsi Park, you start extensive construction work and then twenty-four hours later you change your idea? Without a trace of planning who and how to trust you? Does Mr Mouszala's absurdity, which states on the one hand that it is not wrong for the country to be declared in an emergency, because this can solve our hands on recruitment - as he said - and only yesterday - that the border with Skopje will not be opened again and that the crisis will last three years? Do you think that's how you create a picture of seriousness? And does the Minister - as a competent minister - simply observes and tells us that the country is doomed to become a bankrupt refugee ghetto? Unable to build and design hot spots and hosting centers in time, you eventually turn the country into an unorganized and chaotic hosting center, because that is what is going to happen. In the particularly sensitive area of justice, the President of the Ice Arrow, Mr Thanos, strikes again a few days later. After the incomprehensibility of a favoured Western democracy persecution against the Constitutional Constitution, Mr Tsakakis, a few days ago, she is inclined to take advantage of the right you gave her recently to disciplinary control of her colleagues. So she does not hesitate to order and carry out in person a disciplinary investigation against the Public Prosecutor, Mr. Chatani. I fear that it has not been understood, ladies and gentlemen, how dangerously you have pushed justice. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, stop experimenting in legislation. It is unacceptable to incorporate a European directive which we all support from the JRC to add various chapters with completely irrelevant provisions concerning the extension of the term of office of the Director of the National Museum of Contemporary Art or the appointment of the Artist Director of the Athens Festival to changes to the Customs Code. Furthermore - and this is a new methodology that we must take note of, ladies and gentlemen - by means of Amendment No 5, which was accepted by the Minister, you are opening the thirty-three new administrative secretaries, which Mr Vernardakis has actually brought yesterday. In fact, in order to pass the outline of the absence of a report by the General Accounting Office of the State, for the costs incurred by the State budget by this act, it had tried to bring it as a legislative improvement. I call on fellow SYRIZA Members not to burn a legislative instrument at their disposal by adopting and facilitating the government in such options. I call on us to protect the independence of legislative power from its executive and control. Article 61 exempts wine intended for the manufacture of vinegar. Correct it, it's an opportunity! Exempt Greek wine from the unacceptable and unprecedented European data, a special tax which, as I have repeatedly stated from this Step, is a disaster for Greek wine production. Besides, all your programming turns out to be stirring up in the air. You calculated that by imposing this excise duty you would have an increase in revenue by EUR 55 million. Finally, you managed to lead the industry to aeration, destroying one of the most powerful and promising, extroverting branches of the Greek economy. The elements of the Central Cooperative Association for Vineyard Products, the JEOSOE, already record loss of turnover by 60%, Mr Alexiadis. I have just tabled a question yesterday. In fact, the familiars of the industry have argued from the outset that this tax would lead to a loss of revenue, but also to a avoidance of tax. Because what finally happened was the transfer of all those pathogens of domestic distillates - i.e. tsipuro, raki, tsikoudia - and winemaking. We have a new production of pathogens. You have pushed serious producers and businessmen to the bulk, uncontrolled sales and led to deterioration, as I said before, one of the most qualitative products in the Greek countryside, strengthened the intensity of unfair competition and led an entire sector to dismantle. Think it over. Rethink it, because it is not worth dismantling and disorganising a productive, extroverting, creative sector. Finally, while respecting the procedures and the effectiveness of Mr Spirtzi's speeches, he is at the forefront of such a juncture, such as the one that we are going through, the air link between half of Greece and the rest of Greece. With complete irresponsibleness, it doubts that the twenty-six fertile airlines will be secured, after the end of this month that the existing contract is concluded with the Greek State. I conclude by reintroducing the call for the parliamentary amendment to be withdrawn under a general number 5. I also appeal, Minister, to withdraw the amendment of the Ministry of the Interior because it is not possible to vote for the legalisation of arbitrary structures without the signature of the relevant Minister, the Minister for the Environment. Respect for the functioning of legislation is neither a formal procedure nor an act that outweighs us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u240	Thank you too, Mr Danneli, for keeping time. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Madam President. I will make a few reminders which - I want to believe well-meaningly - some forget, like newspapers, channels. The reason why I don't know it, but it's facts. I would like to remind you, therefore, that yesterday the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development signed an agreement of 2 billion by 2020. There are seven development programmes running. The National Bank has already signed and the other three will be signed. I would also like to remind you that Klaus Regling, as he said yesterday, almost certainly said that the issue of negotiation is ending and ending positively for the country. I would also like to remind you that the HSBC - a large bank and not just - and too many investors anticipate that the agreement is at the door. I would also like to remind you that BLOOMBERG two, three days ago for the first time - like even, surprisingly, Wolfgang Shoeble, who is not liked here in our country and is not in favour of us - was clear that we cannot go to other pension reductions and that the Greek programme should go through. I am saying this because, although we are not offering - I believe - today's bill has gone up again. I heard from the reverent to me Mr. Dendia to have a selective memory and to recall in his mind what a young man said sixteen years ago. I'll agree with him. He was talking nonsense sixteen years ago, a young man. But he doesn't remember anything to tell us, like, for example, how Mauritius was hired to the psychiatric hospital as vice president in 2008 on the New Democracy Government. He doesn't remember how Mr. Mussas was a press office in the Rural Bank, right hand of Miliacos, how he was later in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, how he was next to Mrs. Savvaidou. Selective memory, when two newspapers and "Parapolistics" and "NATIONS" write about payrole, for 18,500 etc. I don't know if or not. I'm talking about the selective memory of forgetting recent events and remembering what a young man said 17 years ago. With him and me, he was talking nonsense. And the most important thing. Two days ago it came to the forum that two months before Mr Samaras' government fell, the southern Metarakis signed an advance on TERNA 28.5 million. I, too, hope that this will have no effect. But you know, I'm disturbed by this selective memory, not to remember recent events, and to strengthen your political patronage with what a young man was saying. I'm leaving it. I would also like to remind you that, in my view, this bill is very serious. There is a great deal of confidence in the Greek banks and in general all credit institutions abroad. Do we remember that the two bankers of HSBC are indicted? Do we remember that the post office commander is in court? Do we remember that the commander of “SPA PROMOTION” is also a prisoner and a defendant? Do you remember, do we all remember together that the owner of Proton Bank - which was scandalously given by Mr Provopoulou - is also a convict and forty-two are convicted? Selective memory! It does nothing more than this bill than correcting things that will regain confidence in all who are abroad. I do not want to say details, which politician put 100,000 000 while Proton Bank's scandal was at the door and went through a special amendment within a month to relieve him on the grounds that it is about the stability of the banking system. The place was swinging. Get to know each other in this Chamber. And for once I hear what a young man said. Saying it, the channels, the morning shops, I get it. I understand, because the licensing of the channels is at doorways. But to be a serious argument in this Chamber, I do not understand it. And I could say a lot more. I want to finish - I think I have a lot of time, Madam President - just to remind you of this. Our country is spending difficult hours - no one has questioned it - perhaps the hardest since World War II. One would expect these hours to be sobriety, temperament, and mutual understanding. First of all, let's make it clear. Another consensus on serious issues and other conflict. Don't mess it up. Nobody asked anyone to collide. Nobody! This is about universal and so are the creations of some who want to avoid - because I sincerely believe that neither New Democracy, Potami or PASOK want elections - to apologize to justice. It's not about the political system, I mean it. However, we have been living in these days a peculiar situation and I hear how easily Mr. Teddy is associated with tourism with refugee and immigration. I would like to remind you, therefore, that Mr Denktash and any other wish that in the 1990s, who remembers, five hundred and fifty thousand foreign people of Albanian origin entered our country. Bad, poor, but the country didn't collapse. Today we are talking about twenty-four or twenty-five thousand. I already see - that is my personal view - a turn for Turkey. To normalize the situation, he received two hundred sixty-seven of the Gardens, from Maghreb. She contemplated that the German Minister was afflicted. I think that is a good thing. The refugee crisis is indeed a difficult moment for us, above and outside the country, but I would like to remind you - because I hear difficult analyses - that eighteen times more than in the past, people are coming from the coast. I would like to remind you that Erdogan visited almost half of the African countries. With 20 euros, without a visa from whichever country you come and go to the coast to get into Greece. I would also like us not to forget the terrorist blow that took place in Paris, which has overthrown balance, the collapse of the Russian plane in Sinai and, above all, terrorist acts within Damascus, which we had not seen in Damascus, which cost more than seventy-eight people recently, five to six days ago. We're not alone. It is not just Germany that supports us. I believe that logic will prevail. Yes, we have shown a person of solidarity, for which we are honored. We, the little, the poor country with the crisis, feel an honor that we haven't raped Syrians, who we didn't get the luggage from these people, and we never will. It is an honor for us, for the poor country, for the country with the crisis. What do I mean? In this marathon, which today is a difficult turning point, we will end. We'll finish! The refugee crisis is temporary. I love Yannis Muzala very much and I've known him since we were together at the "Doctors of the World". He's an excellent kid. I have another point of view, however. I believe that sooner this crisis will be settled and remember. Our deal was for thirty thousand and twenty thousand. Do you want to put another twenty thousand on and be seventy thousand? It's a manageable amount. At the same time, however, both Italy and France and Germany and other countries will get their share, even if the four-fifth countries refuse. Already, Skopje shows a flexibility. They're dependent on us. Their economy depends on us. They still want to get into NATO. I mean, it's for brass politicians, it's not for cowards. Anyone who thinks he can play with the biggest election crisis is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Karras has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, the debate on a bill that shows that there is a consensus of Parliament in its vote is changing to a arena, not in opposition, but in the way in which the government's legislative work is handled. What did we see again today? We have at the last minute seen various amendments, various legislative improvements. You want me to tell you that, in my view, most of the legislative improvements are self-evident provisions that seek to ensure that Members' vote is maintained, that we do not understand what is involved or what we are voting on. So I bring in an example. Amendment by the Ministry of Interior concerning the so-called legalisation of arbitrary border posts. I want to ask something. I have escaped, as far as I can, what provisions are being amended and what the explanatory statement tells us. We have now learned that it is arbitrary and that there is the over-resolution to be settled in the context of the refugee immigration crisis? But the Minister said it was years arbitrary. But they're working. If it were arbitrary, why don't you seal them to close them? Seal them, close them, and bring legislation to legalize them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u244	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u245	Panagiotis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u246	Are these things told in the House? Shall we close the border?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u247	Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u248	For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u249	Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u250	Can we close the country's border?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u251	What border in the country? You know what I'm saying? Bring legislation right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u252	Everyone says what they want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u253	Okay, I'm everyone, and I say what I want, but I keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u254	But when you say we turn it off?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u255	Please. Do they work or not, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u256	They're working.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u257	Good. So, if they work, why do you open wounds with supposed legality? Let's go down. We have not seen the signature of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The other parties have rightly suggested that this creates a major environmental issue. I shall now proceed to a subsequent amendment. Yesterday - and I said it before and was reacted by Mrs Antonopoulou - we voted for the famous parallel programme, the Acceleration of Government work. We have voted for many things, including our side, the Group of the European Central Bank also voted for this provision, which covered uninsured Greeks, but also foreigners, who are for whatever reason legal or illegal, who are in Greece. We understand that there is a need to regulate these things. Today, then, we see that in the same law as the justification for need there are amendments which could have been tabled last week, they could have been put under the legislative suffering, they could have been discussed, analysed, improved. So we see that there is a complete lack of coordination of the government's work. Next example. The famous public administration reform was made known. I had commented myself and said that we have Secretary-General of the Ministries, but what do we need since we have Ministers, Deputy Ministers and State Secretarys? I was even joking, if you would allow me, and I said that we will shortly be appointed Deputy Ministers of State. Well, I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that I was prophetic at this point, because, on the same day, after the debate on the bill, the so-called administrative secretaries, who are something between general secretaries and political persons, came. In any case, it is the category of special first-class positions. Additional positions have been created. I have commented and said that we are attempting to decommission the state mechanism from the party in this way, and today we are seeing an amendment of fellow Members in all kinds, which triggers the provision of administrative secretaries and lays down deadlines within which the choice must be made without, however, complying with the other conditions laid down by the law. Why didn't that happen the other day? What is the need for government officials, of course, to help Members - in all respects - at this stage? Is he hiding something else? I don't completely understand it. It is a provision of colleagues, which has seven unconnected members, if you like, paragraphs and, at the end, settles positions in the former School Buildings Agency. Good work! I want to say something else here. I'm coming back to the parallel program. He says, therefore, that in the parallel programme we made many mistakes and we need proposed regulation, which is one, two, three pages of legislative text and corrects words, corrects dates, corrects deadlines. I would therefore like to say this and let Mr Kourublis react: is there any coordinator of the government's work or is there? I know there are ministers who appear under the heading of the coordinator. I know that Mr Kourublis is her first minister and protests when we raise these issues on which he has the same responsibility. At least it must honour Parliament and respect it, as we honor it and respect it. I continue with this: with regard to the amendments, I can no longer follow the situation. We've arrived in artistics too. We did not expect that the law on the guarantee of bank deposits would also have spiritual - artistic extensions. An amendment is in place which says that there is a need for the continuation of the operation of the National Centre of Contemporary Art. Worth wages! So it tells us quite rightly that the term of director of the Museum is extended until the end of the term of office of the current board of directors. It's right, so we don't have any resentment. Cap - and I would like the expression - comes a next amendment and what does it say to us? Mr Baltas' explanations were inadequate, I have to say, I have followed them. So Mr Balta tells us that as Minister of Culture he can appoint the artistic director at the Greek Festival. Right, we don't have an artistic director, we don't have time for this summer, when the Athens Festival starts at the end of June - early July, we're going to Epidaurus, we're going to Herodio, we're going to many places this year to attend these important performances. However, it also says something else here, beyond the same amendment: that the artistic director of the Greek Festival will be with a three-year term, which can be renewed. So since we want to choose and upgrade the festival for six years, three plus three, what is the need for urgency, namely to appoint it today with an amendment that comes an hour before we proceed to the vote on the bill? So let them bring in an artistic director for three months, let's even call him - it is known that he can attempt and relocate from abroad - to make us a nice festival, to go, as I said, to Herodio, to Epidaurus, to go to Dodoni - let's improve it, let's go to other parts of Greece, Mr Manta - so give him a three-month term. I'll get an example that may not be of the present. The amendment, which the Congregation of Music transferred to the property of the Greek state, was discussed the day before yesterday. Do you know how the Music Hall works? By transferring conductors, orchestra directors, who come ten days, they do what they have to do and leave. What is the need to appoint without respecting - I repeat - the legal conditions for six years of artistic director of the Athens Festival or the Greek Festival? So let me come by and stay a little in my reaction, which I had for Mrs Antonopoulou's amendments, for which I really must say I was upset by an internal impulse. Maybe that word isn't likeable. I was annoyed by an internal impulse, because matters that could have been dealt with with with with dignity, with decency, with reason, come and tells us that Mrs Antonopoulou, when I have now reacted and said that Parliament is being offended, are somehow humiliating us in the way of legislating, that 'you know, I was expecting approval from Europe because it is the funds'. But after waiting for her and she's community resources, she came yesterday, came yesterday, had a bill last week that we could discuss. Another form of curiosity! I'm going through now - and I'm finishing - the famous bill. We have come with good intentions to vote on it. We have also stated to the committee that this is a useful regulation. We do not think it solves the problem of the banking crisis. We do not believe that it contributes to the Greek economy but gives hope that they guarantee deposits and investments at least banks through the TSE, through this system, which can create a duplicate capital, so that they can guarantee deposits up to EUR 100,000. Of course, 100,000 euros are no longer available in Greece, they have been evaporated, either in the form of an abscess, or in the form of extinction abroad, or even in depreciating property or unemployment. Whoever had a little statement withdrew her slowly. The day before yesterday, Mrs Katselli said that they expect the deposit to return after two, three years. What does that mean? This means that it confesss to the banks' principle that two, three years should not wait for growth. Why would he put that on? It must be normalized and the situation made normal. Good. I hear that, too. But something else emerged: Government argument was put forward: "You know, and Mrs Katseli said so, that in the last year we have an increase in the deposits in Greece. They fell out of the 200 billion to a hundred twenty and we have an increase of one billion and made it a hundred twenty one!" This was given as proof of the financial capacity! Can I say something? When the banks are closed and we can't get our money, and accounting will put a 0.0% interest on the bank and accounted for 20 will become a hundred and twenty one of the interest we can't raise from the banks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to say that and I shall end, Madam President: it has this bill, some final provisions, which - as I am told - do not allow time and the reference will be very short - concern the Legal Council of the State. I have said again in the Chamber that, because of my course as a co-chairman of justice, I am sensitive to some issues. I'm addressing the Minister of Finance. I see that Mr Alexiadis is here and he can watch. So I see that these issues of the Legal Council will be difficult to deal with in the way the three-member committees operate. They will accept, do not accept the private decisions, compromises, and at the end we will transform the Legal Council of State. It's a bureaucratic story. I don't want to tell her. We're the lawyers who know how it works. Maybe it'll get worse. I am simply saying this: the excise duty on wine remains and is affected by this sector. This sector is the only one who has stayed in the Greek economy and is developing not by state aid, nor by state support, but by winegrowers and winemakers' interests and improving. Nevertheless, we are now coming and reintroducing the Customs Code and saying that what we do from vinegar is tax free if I'm not mistaken. "What was the crab? What was his junk?" if this is considered an exemption. To conclude, I will only say this, which will be my last answer, Madam President, to the bill: Mr Tsakalotos spoke this morning about the International Monetary Fund and left a picture that things can even be improved. I have one experience, and I say: we have had contact with colleagues from the Netherlands - the Netherlands is chairing Europe - who, strictly speaking, are calling for the linkage of the evaluation, the Lagard list of red loans, to help refugees. Did you see yesterday where the EUR 700,000, 000 that the European Union will make available through the High Commissioners' organisations, all of which, in order to avoid the involvement of the Greek state? Madam President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u258	There is another parliamentary representative to close the parliamentary delegation. It's Mr. Maddash. Mr. Curublis, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u260	Now you want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u261	Now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u262	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u263	Madam President, as far as the issue of the Secretary-General is concerned, I am afraid those who referred to - I will not make personal reference - came at least unprepared and made reference to this issue. They came in perfectly unprepared. Is it possible for someone to come to Stepma, a MP elected, to say things that are not far from the word'stricken verbs'? In what way, ladies and gentlemen, will these people be chosen and you spoke of a party? How will they be chosen? Do you doubt and question? Put yourself on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u264	You brought it last minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u265	Let go, Mr. Loverdo! We don't have time to talk. You'll talk. You keep talking. "All you slaughter them and stab them." Be patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u266	You talk all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u267	In what way, then, will they be chosen? It is a choice made so far with the Secretary-General, who are political positions and are chosen...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u268	Is there a report from the General Accounting Office? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u269	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu, I heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u270	But there isn't!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u271	Don't shout, your blood pressure will rise! Don't yell so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u272	I'm not yelling. That's how I was yelling at the window.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u273	But take the floor, then say what you want. Are they political positions? Are they chosen by decision of each government? If that is true, and why is there a party rule? The ones you had general secretaries for so many years who put them in? A.S.A.P.L.D.? But is it possible to come here and say such things?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u274	You're saying that's all. But we told you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u275	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u276	All right! Come here and say things...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u277	The party domination...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u278	All right, all right, you don't go to me about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u279	Okay, close the debate and tell me about the report of the State General Accounting Office!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u280	Mr. Kegeroglu, I've been abolished anyway, but a little lower!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u281	You can ask for the floor and answer, place yourself. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, if you mean that's the party domination, tell us. The fact that we have passed a law and the general secretaries of the decentralised executives will be placed under procedures that are not called into question by their objectivity and aptitude, that we have placed instead politically in the positions of decentralised executives at high level on the basis of hierarchy, is all this partisanism. Do you think the Greek people believe you? You've been overnight too far! As far as the amendment is concerned, Madam President, I am really impressed by the style and logic of my fellow Members. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 2647 is the law of 1998, and the question is: Do you today force the government, your right, but how many years have passed since 1998, and did you not proceed to this legalisation?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u282	Is that what we told you? Chironis, we told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u283	And you come now with courage and forsake the country in front of a difficult time. It's a disgrace! It's a disgrace to you! I won't say any more talk! You must dare today that her enemies are threatening her abroad and you must identify yourself with this logic and say to us: 'You know, you have not followed the legal process'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u284	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u285	I ask you: 20 years, what have you been doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u286	What are you talking about, Mercelist?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u287	Since 1998, the law has been passed. There's a gap! You must be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u288	Your people have had you for general secretaries!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u289	Leave that, Mr. Kegeroglu. When you're talking to me, you'll be careful! You'll be careful when you talk to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u290	We've had like you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u291	What I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u292	Please drop the tons all of them. Drop the tons. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u293	Madam President, the legislation has been vacant since 1998 and there is a legalisation deficit and an authorisation deficit. If my fellow Members think that they should not vote for it, it is a democratic right for them not to vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u294	You're a Minister of the Environment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u295	Everyone will assume their responsibilities. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u296	He's not answering us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u297	This sceptical logic and personal attacks have a limit. To be informed. So far, I'm not saying anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u298	Mr. Mada, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u299	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u300	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u301	I won't tire you. Minister, as a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Alliance, I asked you to stay on two issues, beyond criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u302	I'm left!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u303	On two issues, which are completely formal and practical.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u304	It doesn't show up, Andrea, what you're saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u305	Did you see now that you're interrupting? Instead of being vexed and coming here, Minister, and doing mental triples and tricks, you are politicising something that is typical, but if it is not done as a formal condition, it is turned into a legislative smuggling. You were called to give two answers. In one amendment, your responsibility, why does the Minister for the Environment not sign? Why doesn't he sign up? And I'm legally speaking!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u306	Would you allow me to answer for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u307	Let me finish. I asked why he doesn't sign. Instead of answering this, you started the party routes, raised the voice and played a theatre here, but no spectators.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u308	Do you see that? It's an opinion of the Legal Council of the State! You should have come home. You came inconvenient with the mood of rivalry alone!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u309	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u310	It is an opinion of the Legal Council of the State which does not give rise to this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Curublis, sit down. Finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u312	When talking about me, be very careful of your words.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u313	Can I keep an eye on my words? Take care of your words!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u314	You know very well that I also know my speeches in the House are documented and diligent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u315	Here, here. Get the opinion of the Legal Board of the State! You'll read it, and you'll apologize to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u316	If you have a political balance problem, it is not our fault. So we have told you on this issue, rather than just signing up to you and the Minister of Finance, the appropriate Minister for the Environment must of course be signed. We therefore ask that you send your amendment until his offices sign it, so that it is formally tabled. The second thing we told you was not about the dialogue on the party rule that took place a few days ago in the House. We told you that you made fun of this House, bringing a last-minute regulation and not proposing this regulation, neither you nor Mr Vernardakis, did it'mantara', and I am sorry for the expression, Madam President. To correct it, you forgot to change the title and bring the title to a change today in the form of a parliamentary amendment. The notice of such positions shall also not be accompanied by a report from the General Accounting Office of the State. We have told you that and instead of answering them, here you are making political speeches, supposedly to influence some. No one's affected! Please give these two practical answers, please, and if you do not give this House any convincing answers, take the amendments back and bring them back next week. If, instead of this way of parliamentary speaking, you start again, then, Madam President, the Minister is responsible for the misappropriation of the sittings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u317	Madam President, let me speak for a second. I present to the House an opinion from the Legal Council of the State of 2009, to see who is responsible for Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u318	I didn't say you weren't in charge. I said he's got to sign!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u319	So read, Mr. Loverdos, n. It is the Ministry of Interior which says that the only relevant ministry in this case is the Ministry of the Interior. I therefore present to you the opinion of the Legal Council of the State of 2009, to understand that you have come unprepared at least! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u320	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u321	Mr Loverdo, this is now a dispute, which has no practical meaning.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u322	We're talking about signing. We don't say who the Minister is.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u323	Yes, sir. We get it. The Minister says he's overreacting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u324	We're talking about signing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u325	I've explained.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u326	You're breaking the law because Mr. Chironis doesn't sign.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u327	No conspiracy arises.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Chironis doesn't sign. That's why you're breaking the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u329	Don't do too smart. You're coming in undetected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u330	You're breaking the law and you must be ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Mandas has the floor. He is the last speaker to conclude the meeting. In the meantime, the amendments that have been incorporated into the text are also shared.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u332	I think we are reaching the end of the debate on the draft law harmonising our country's national law with Directive 214/99 of the European Union and I think that there has been no different opinion - apart from the view of the JRC - that it is a harmonisation which in any case creates additional guarantees on the issue of deposits. This was accepted by all sides, except the JRC, which has a different perception of this issue, which colleagues have put forward in their speeches. At this point I would like to say that there is a greater potential for us to face crises in progress or possibly with a greater security for guarantees. And I think that the message must be given from all sides of Parliament to the Greek citizens - and I think that this is in the country's interest - that today, even in this very difficult and complex situation we are living in, it is in the country's interest to begin to return at a much higher rate, because this is an essential contribution to the stabilisation of the country, which is absolutely necessary and necessary. Of course, I think there is at the same time agreement on many aspects of Parliament that we need to move towards a European system of guarantees such as to guarantee the deposits not only of Greeks but of all European citizens with greater adequacy. I think that steps need to be taken and that is a positive and necessary legislative procedure that needs to be completed. Of course, in many speeches - apart from the rapporteurs who spoke much more about the bill itself - the debate focused on issues relating to topicality and issues, problems and concerns relating to amendments and other provisions attached to the bill. I think that various issues have been raised on the part of the ministers in relation to the amendments. Let me make a few comments on the current situation, the complex reality that we are living in both the issues of refugee - immigration and, of course, on evaluation. First of all, I would like to condemn from this position the positions of the Golden Dawn that expose racism, intolerance, and in a way of nostalgicism for our country's junta. I think we should be extremely careful, all of us in the Greek Parliament, which is on the opposite side, in these racist, misallocated messages and actions - because they are not just in words, that is the characteristic of the neonazi form - which have evolved or may evolve in the future. There must be a front against this rhetoric and this practice. We must in no way leave the slightest mark, the slightest window or imply problems and issues which, however, take a racist, intoleranceist and essentially anti-democratic and anti-European form in the sense of Europe's values. I would say that I see - and I never use intense tones in my speech - that there have unfortunately been sides of speech by other colleagues who have at least troubled me, without overlooking the fact that such a phenomenon is a phenomenon that is evolving, with a dynamic that goes beyond the limits of our country. It is a European and global issue which, of course, comes first of all from the attacks in that region, from wars, from the misery and hunger imposed on all peoples and states. Under no circumstances should we - and I say this as intensely as I can - leave any mark on this problem. In terms of solidarity and humanism, with our values, we must deal with this phenomenon. I would like to take this step in congratulating all the citizens of our country who, in all ways, contribute to this development. We do not have, for the time being, happily for our homeland phenomena that we are seeing in other parts of the European continent, which are really very concerned about, as regards the possibility of returning to the phenomena of which it was called a 'dark' continent, namely the old times and the difficult problems facing Europe and the whole world in the past. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] However, we are in an extremely difficult treaty. We should not underestimate the risks at all, and I think that seriously and at the same time, we must tackle this phenomenon at European level in the end. I hope at this point that there will be agreement tomorrow in the Council of Political Heads, so that we can move on with this problem with our eyes, with our souls and our minds on the values of solidarity and humanism, which I would say our people have shown very strongly all this time. And here it comes to be added - and I would like to say it from the Step of the Greek Parliament - and the voice of other citizens of Europe, such as the Austrian authors who, with a strong proclamation of protest, accuse one of the unacceptable indictment of our country. And I think many, thousands, millions of progressive citizens across Europe see these dangers and sense this complex reality. And we must unite precisely with these citizens and those countries that look forward to a European solution, a solution to solidarity and humanism, while energising all the mechanisms and capabilities, so that the source and cause of this problem which is wars and poverty in the Syrian region, as well as throughout the world, can be stopped. And I would like to say that we should not really have a selective memory in them. We must not forget, for example - as Mr Denkias has forgotten - the six hundred Syrian refugees who have been on hunger strike for a month here and the absence of any attempt to approach their problem. And we must, I think, be very careful to approach this issue and strengthen all these positive elements, of course by taking all the measures they need, so that this problem can be tackled as a problem on this basis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't have much time. However, I would like to say another word on the question of evaluation. In addition to all the things mentioned by the Ministers, there is today's communication from the Commission that progress has been made in preparing for the return of the Heads of Institutions to Athens. It is also a very crucial issue. I think that all possible explanations have been given to this House as to where the problem is. And I think it is in our country's interest to complete this process as early as possible, because time - we all know it in this Chamber - is a very crucial factor in the development of the situation. And I want to make two more reminders so that we do not forget, as a colleague has referred to the Independent Authorities. I just want to remind you that yesterday, by a large majority, we adopted an Independent Authority at the Conference of Presidents. I should also like to ask myself, from this Step forward, because I hear some things that at least I get put into a public office if you want, and I would like to say it, because it was said again by a colleague - how the IMF came to this country and how the IMF came to Europe. Let's think about it and think about it. I'm not saying anything else. I'm stopping here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, too. Mr. Pappas has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u334	Mr President, I would say that what I want to say is also personal. You were not President-in-Office a moment ago, but Mrs Christodoulopoulos was President-in-Office. The fellow Parliamentary spokesman of the Association and known from my life in Ioannina, Christos Mandas, said something at the beginning of his speech, which is very serious and I would say that he is far more serious than Mr Loverdou and Mr Kourublis. So he said he condemned the views of the Golden Dawn. Do you understand, Mr President - it is a rhetorical question, it is not really for you, you must know it as President-in-Office - that here we are the Plenary Assembly, the Greek Parliament and that we are not to condemn opinions, but we are here to listen to our opinions and form our own opinions, if we hear the rest of the parties? And, Mr Manda, in essence the term 'fascism', the political use of the term, who is the fascist at the moment and who is the democrat? For what you also said about the jungle past - because you were not inside I remember - I want you to be careful what the parliamentary representatives of the rest of the parties say. I did not say anything about the run-up to the past, but I said about the large systemic media, which unfortunately starts up on a ground and are now talking about tanks on the streets. It was Mr. Portsalte, I said, and Mrs. Kosoni's indignant relative of the President of the New Democracy. Did you follow it? And I said: 'We're Alone if these things are spoken of by television and on a pan-Hellenic channel.' That's all I wanted to say. And I want, Mr President, when you are in office with the President of Parliament, all the Vice-Presidents, because we have been deprived of the right to have the Vice-President, to raise this matter. You must therefore raise this topic, the expression 'I condemn the views'. She's unauthorized.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, I would ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u336	Mr President, I too would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, I would like to speak for one minute to refer to three amendments. As I was not a speaker and a debate was held on both the articles and the amendments to the whole, I would like to speak for one minute to refer to three amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u338	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Let me also point out, in my turn, what has been heard from all sides, that, unfortunately, the government when we discuss a matter, we put forward proposals, we highlight gaps in articles, it does not listen to us, it insists on its own pattern, and it then comes with amendments to correct errors. And I'm talking about medical care because I was one of the people I strongly protested. One amendment came last Tuesday and partially corrected and another one came today. It is an issue that we are really positive about, but we have to highlight this bad practice that the government has. But for the two other amendments, which I would like to put forward, we will be totally opposed. One amendment concerns the legalisation of the arbitrary without the signature of the Minister for the Environment. No one refers to the responsibility of the Interior Minister. We are talking about the co-responsibility of the Minister for the Environment, which must also be expressed by his signature or at least by his presence and a statement here. Neither did the other one. Unfortunately, the government obviously wants to go through some regulations without complying with the Rules of Procedure. The other amendment concerns the issue of the Secretary-General, the additional thirty three Secretary-General. We've got sixty-three, and they're gonna be ninety-six. Well, neither do we have a report from the General Accounting Office of the State, in fact, when we have a bill from the Ministry of Finance? This is ironic: the Minister for Finance is head of the General Accounting Office of the State and according to the Constitution, not only under the Rules of Procedure, this report should accompany any amendments and any provisions which have a public cost. Don't tell me that the thirty-three will be unpaid. If such a statement is made, of course you don't have to. If the additional thirty three general secretaries are unpaid the State General Accounting Report is not necessary, but a statement must be made by the Minister of Finance if they are unpaid. If they have wages, they need to be exposed and they should be withdrawn. Don't do things that we'll find later in front of us. Yesterday at the Conference, Mr President, you saw very well that when I spoke about the many violations of the Rules of Procedure, the President was overthrown and found a breach in 1998 and one in 2007, I think. Of course! But forty years, you will find me two more and more in forty months to have multiples.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u340	Forty weeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u341	In forty weeks, as many as he wants to be. The point is that these violations by a majority are unfortunately turning against Parliament's institution, against democracy, and we call on you not to insist on these two amendments unless the formal, other than substantive, conditions are met which make them beyond and outside the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. I would like to conclude by saying that if you are insisting today on voting on this whole bill, despite the provision in Rule 104(2) of the Rules of Procedure, which expressly states that when there are legislative improvements, amendments, etc., the vote is taken at the next sitting on the whole, we will not be taking part in this vote, because we do not want to be accomplices to the implied violation of the Rules of Procedure. If the Qualified Opposition and the other parties want to think about it, because it's a huge issue for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, too. Mr. Mandas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr President. I want the floor on personal grounds because the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative has referred to me. In my position as Parliamentary spokesman I expressed SYRIZA's view against the xenophobic, racist and intoleranceous speech and rhetoric that we consider to have Golden Dawn on this subject. As far as the second part is concerned, I have not mentioned you, Mr Pappa. I was also referring to what he said - look at the speech a little - your rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u344	Thank you. I want to tell Mr. Kegeroglu...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u345	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u346	Anything else you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u347	If anything you say, I expect to hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u348	Say, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u349	The last comment Mr Kegeroglu made on the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u350	I heard her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u351	Do you have anything to say about that? It's serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u352	I have, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u353	Because I saw that the text was distributed, so that there could also be a vote on the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u354	Mr Loverdos, I have the assurance that they have been incorporated into the text, in the infancy of everything that has been done, whether they concern amendments or any articles. They have been incorporated and in this sense there will be a vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u355	Ladies and gentlemen of all the parties, I am referring to all the parties of the National Representation, there is the Rules of Parliament on the subject raised by Mr Kegeroglou and we are discussing it, that is, Article 104(2) expressly states, Mr President, that, when we have amendments or legislative improvements, voting on the principle and in writing, but not on the whole in order to get the whole text here and vote on it, with the assurance of everyone that there has been no change, no smuggling - such as that of Mr Kurublis - in the case of the Secretary-General. This, with the agreement of all the parties, had been overcome several times during this Parliament's term of office when it was voting on texts, which were crucial and not enough, for what the country is discussing and finally codecision with its lenders, the House has voted. We should have the FEK. I also remember when I was Minister of Health, my last draft law closed the period that ended in April 2012. The vote was then taken on the whole for that reason, because the House was dissolving. Exceptionally, and with the agreement of all, Article 104(2) is exceeded. But here, this exception, which presupposes the agreement of the parties, has made it a rule. Mr President, please, because we disagree and from what I have heard, other parties disagree, respect Article 104(2). We're not going to get hurt. Follow this article and let the vote take place in the plenary session for years, as has been done for the next part-session.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u356	Mr. Loverdos, says the article in particular “to join the original text of the bill or the proposal for a law...”, etc. You have the assurance that they've joined. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u357	We have to check.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u358	It's your opinion. What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u359	You weren't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u360	How?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u361	You weren't here an hour ago because he was chairing another colleague of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u362	Uh, I wasn't. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u363	I'm not criticizing. I find an event. Listen, in the resolution of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior on administrative reform, etc., without the procedure being carried out, another provision has been inserted into the text of the final draft rather than another provision. He shared the whole of the draft law, but we did not have the opportunity to see what has and what has not been incorporated. This assessment, which the services are right, must also be carried out by the parties. This is the point of the next vote, that is to say we have the time to see a line - if what we have voted on was proposed by the ministers who have accepted amendments by Members and others. They are indeed just as embedded in the draft law. I ask you to comply with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u364	Mr. Loverdo, if there's any distrust between the parties, I understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u365	But it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u366	I'm talking among the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u367	There was a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u368	If it is excessively suspicious, in my opinion, of the services of the House....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u369	No, no one!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u370	It's overreacting. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the House, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the Hall "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", thirty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the 4th Municipal School of Oriokastro of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u371	Mr President, for a minute I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u372	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u373	I have a right to secondary. In that sense, I ask for the floor. We wanted to make a concrete proposal to the amendment tabled by the Members of SYRIZA and incorporated into the draft law with Article 72, if I am not mistaken. I won't stand in general. We in the first five parts of this amendment fully disagree, because we have voted against the articles relating to the specific law which goes to amend. But I wanted to focus on point 7, in which I understand that an effort is being made to improve, at least to deal with a better matter. But not only do you solve this problem, but you make it worse. You can see it better and come to a next bill after talking to the workers themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u374	Withdrawal, that is, the paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u375	Retire now and discuss a subsequent draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u376	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u377	Here you go, Mr. Dimas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u378	We agree, too. The basic support for the Rules of Procedure is something that we obviously assume that both the Government and the Bureau of Parliament want to do so. We will not, however, leave the Chamber. We believe that it is not right to move back to a possible vote, but we certainly believe that the government itself will want to maintain an elementary level of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and take the amendments back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u379	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u380	Please, Mr. Loverdo, for the economy of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u381	We're done. Mr New Democracy's colleague, first of all, we did not say that we would leave the Chamber. We said that we would not participate in the vote and we mean the vote on the whole. We shall be taking part in the vote properly. We're placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u382	Okay, that's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u383	I ask you, Mr President, to bear in mind that all parties need to be consulted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u384	The positions are clear, Mr Loverdos, and they will be expressed in the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset on the articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Deposit guarantee schemes (incorporation of Directive 2014/49/EU), Deposit Guarantee Fund and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance? The Democratic Reconciliation isn't taking part in the vote, is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u385	You're confusing it on purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u386	We have said that in principle we are voting 'yes'. We believe that the vote should be postponed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u387	I didn't get anything confused, at least intentionally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u388	There's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Kegeroglu, if I've confused something, I'm not deliberately messing it up. I assure you. Let's move on. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u390	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u391	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u392	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Deposit guarantee schemes (incorporation of Directive 2014/49/EU), Deposit Guarantee Fund and Investment Guarantee and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u393	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u394	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u395	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u396	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u397	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u398	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u399	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u400	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u401	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u402	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u403	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u404	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u405	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u406	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u407	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u408	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u409	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u410	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u411	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u412	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u413	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u414	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u415	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u416	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u417	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u418	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u419	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u420	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u421	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u422	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u423	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u424	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u425	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u426	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u427	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u428	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u429	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u430	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u431	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u432	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u433	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u434	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u435	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u436	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u437	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u438	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u439	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u440	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u441	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u442	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u443	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u444	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u445	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u446	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u447	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u448	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u449	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u450	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u451	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u452	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u453	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u454	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u455	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u456	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u457	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u458	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u459	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u460	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u461	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u462	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u463	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u464	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u465	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u466	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u467	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u468	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u469	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u470	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u471	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u472	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u473	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u474	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u475	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u476	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u477	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u478	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u479	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u480	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u481	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u482	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u483	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u484	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u485	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u486	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u487	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u488	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u489	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u490	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u491	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u492	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u493	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u494	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u495	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u496	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u497	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u498	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u499	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u500	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u501	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u502	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u503	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u504	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u505	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u506	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u507	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u508	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u509	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u510	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u511	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u512	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u513	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u514	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u515	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u516	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u517	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u518	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u519	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u520	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u521	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u522	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u523	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u524	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u525	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u526	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u527	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u528	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u529	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u530	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u531	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u532	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u533	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u534	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u535	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u536	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u537	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u538	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u539	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u540	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u541	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u542	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u543	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u544	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u545	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u546	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u547	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u548	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u549	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u550	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u551	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u552	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u553	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u554	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u555	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u556	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u557	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u559	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u560	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u561	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u562	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u563	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u564	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u565	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u566	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u567	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u568	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u569	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u570	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u571	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u572	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u573	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u574	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u575	Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u576	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u577	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u578	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u579	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u580	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u581	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u582	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u585	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u586	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u587	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u588	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u589	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u590	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u591	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u592	Article 66 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u593	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u594	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u595	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u596	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u597	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u598	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 275 and a special number 58 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u599	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u603	The amendment, by a general number 275 and a special 58, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 276 and a special number 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u604	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u605	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u606	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u608	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u609	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u610	The amendment, under a general number 276 and a special 59, has therefore been accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 278 and a special number 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u612	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u614	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u615	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u616	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 278 and a special 61 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 279 and a special number 62 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u617	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u618	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u620	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u621	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u622	The amendment, under a general number 279 and a special 62, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u623	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u624	You want to talk about Amendment No 277 and specific number 60 that has been amended by you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u625	Regarding paragraph 7 of the amendment concerning workers in the former School Buildings Agency. We want to withdraw this paragraph and bring it back to a next bill with a better wording.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u626	Now, at the time of the vote, Minister? Do you see why I am telling you, Mr President, that the vote on the entire bill should be postponed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u627	If that's the case, I'll call on the minister not to remove it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u628	It's fine, but you see the inconsistencies.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u629	I couldn't predict it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u630	The Rules of Procedure provide for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u631	Well, we're continuing the vote. Does the House accept Amendment Nos 277 and 60, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u632	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u633	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u634	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u636	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u637	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u638	The amendment, as amended by the Minister, was therefore approved by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u639	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u640	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u641	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Deposit guarantee schemes (incorporation of Directive 2014/49/EU), Deposit Guarantee Fund and Investment Guarantee and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. Do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u642	Mr President, we have made a proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u643	It's been taken into account. Mr. Loverdo, what can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u644	How's it going to happen? We made a suggestion. Other opposition parties were expressed in the same way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u645	Good. You will vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u646	The Communism has not been expressed. Why are you doing this, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u647	What am I supposed to do? I told you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u648	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u649	I'm not breaking him!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u650	You're breaking him!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u651	Why am I breaking him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u652	Give me the floor, please. The issue is typical and simple, but the type, Mr President, let me tell you is a repetitive substance, if you understand me, and the purpose of this repetitive substance, which has become an article in the Rules of Procedure, is to prevent mistakes, uncertainties, smuggling...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u653	Plundering?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u654	Not the services.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u655	Whose?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u656	Politics, Mr President. We identified a provision that no one knew had passed in the previous draft law. We bought hours on this. We put this at the Conference of Presidents, told Mr Voutsi to act on it, and to avoid all this, and we all have good faith, we say in the Rules of Procedure that the vote on the entire bill should be taken at a next sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u657	It's the third time...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u658	Who rejected this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u659	Mr. Loverdo, this is the third time you've reiterated your opinion. It's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u660	Did you tell us he was rejected?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u661	I told you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u662	How? You didn't tell me. Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u663	I told you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u664	You didn't tell me. You said my remark was taken into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u665	There's a chance you don't want to hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u666	What does the majority parliamentary representative say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u667	If he wants to talk, I'll give him the floor. The vote is changing. You don't have the floor, Mr. Manda. Does this House therefore ask: is the bill accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u668	Then we will not participate in the vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u669	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u670	We are not taking part in the vote. It is unacceptable that what you are doing and bored by yourself for violation of the Rules of Procedure without any reason. What's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u671	Look, Mr. Loverdo,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u672	That's my place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u673	Well, sometimes the language of the mind precedes... Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u674	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u675	Mr Teddy, the vote is under way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u676	Excuse me, but that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u677	So in the name of observance of the Rules of Procedure, are we blatantly violating him?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u678	Excuse me, but we don't have a collective responsibility for what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u679	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u680	I don't want to make descriptions, Mr. Loverdo. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u681	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u682	Mr President, I am sorry, the Rule of the Rules of Procedure is clear. We're not talking about it. What are we doing here? What are we doing? Let me get this straight. What do you ask of us?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u683	I don't understand what you guys are doing right now. I don't get it! Or you will vote against it... You weren't here, Mr. Dimas said your position clearly...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u684	Excuse me, let me get this straight. Your comment "you weren't here" what exactly does it mean? First of all, as you know in our offices, we have television and we see what it says.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u685	No one commented on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u686	Secondly, I don't imagine when I'm in or out of the hall.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u687	Not at all. I say, Mr Dendia, that Mr Dimas clearly said your party's position, it has been heard, and now we are voting. What do you want us to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u688	I want you to follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u689	We're keeping him. Does this House therefore ask: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u690	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u691	We are not taking part in the vote on the whole draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u692	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u693	We are not taking part in the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u694	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Deposit guarantee schemes (incorporation of Directive 2014/49/EU), Deposit Guarantee Fund and Investment Guarantee and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in only one debate on the principle of Articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u695	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u696	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 16 December 2015, Tuesday 22 December 2015, Friday 8 January 2016, Monday 11 January 2016, Tuesday 12 January 2016, Thursday 14 January 2016, Friday 15 January 2016 and Monday 18 January 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u697	The minutes of Wednesday 16 December 2015, Tuesday 22 December 2015, Friday 8 January 2016, Monday 11 January 2016, Tuesday 12 January 2016, Thursday 14 January 2016, Friday 15 January 2016 and Monday 18 January 2016 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-03-S1-commons.u698	With the consent of the House at 18.46' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, March 4, 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
