ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 3-11-2016, the minutes of its meeting of Thursday 3 November 2016, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole, were ratified by the Bureau of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the fields of Research and Rescue and other provisions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcement of Monday's Question Time. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 155/31-10-2016 by MP Drama of the New Democracy, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the Government's commitments not to suspend wage maturities and promotions to the staff of the Security and Armed Forces. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 164/1-11-2016 by MP Aitolakarana of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Rural Development and Food on the problem of heavy rainfall in the Prefecture of Aitolokarnania. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 156/31-10-2016 topical question by Congressman I Piraeus of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the delay in payment of the orders from the General Accounting Office of the State following their accession to the Single Security Agency (ESA). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 133/18-10-2016 by MP of the Association of Central Banks Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Finance on the management of the red loans of the former ATEbank, in an unfair manner for its debtors. 3. The question by No. 131/17-10-2016 of the Deputy Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Finance on the legislative arrangement for extending approved expenses beyond hospitals. 4. The Question No 96/14-10-2016 by the Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the range of use of telemedicine in Greece. 5. The question by No 127/18-10-2016 of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Research and Religious Education, concerning the problems of student housing at the University of Epirus. 6. The Question by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred ninety-sixty Greek children from nursery stations. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 85/11-10-2016 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Health about the problems of operating the anti-cancer Hospital "Theagenio" in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The third, with number 162/1-11-2016, is a topical question for the Attica MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Ministers for Education, Research and Religion and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, regarding the repression and persecution of the fighting students, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. A total of three topical questions will be discussed, as Mr Kaloger, the Secretary-General of the Government, informs us. They will not be debated as a result of an impediment to the competent ministers and the following topical questions will be redefined for discussion. The first, with number 160/1-11-2016, top-stage question of the first-stage question of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Maria Triantafyllou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the completion of the work of the Marina Messologou, will not be discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Deputy Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism Mr. Kountoura. The third, with number 157/31-10-2016, a top-stage question from the MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Saving Vlachos to the Minister of National Defence, on the immediate closure of borders, guard by the Armed Forces and a referendum on the illegal immigration issue, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Dritsa. He has a planned wide-ranging meeting of staff at the Ministry of National Defence. The first under number 154/31-10-2016, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the southern engraving in Patras - Tower, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Network Mr. Spirtzi. The twelfth under number 69/10-10-2016 topical question by the Independent Member of the Achaias Parliamentary Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the proposal for a breath of red loans will not be discussed. The seventh question, number 121/18-10-2016, on the recruitment of workers at the lignite plant "PTOLEMAIDA V" with transparent criteria from the OAED registers, will not be discussed as a result of an obstruction from the Minister who is outside Athens. The eighth Question No 119/18-10-2016 by Independent MEP 2, Theocharis Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Health, on the shortcomings in medical devices that endanger the health and life of patients, will not be discussed due to a workload of Deputy Minister Polakis. The thirteenth, with number 26/3-10-2016, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos, to the Minister of Health, on the procedure for selecting directors to the National Health System (NSS), will not be discussed due to a workload of the Deputy Minister, Mr. Polakis. The second question by number 165/1-11-2016 of the second question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the question of huge ecological dimensions of the stay of fourteen tons of mercury in Aspropyrgos, will not be discussed due to irresponsibility. The Department responsible is the Ministry of Environment and Energy. Eleventh, under number 79/11-10-2016, a topical question from the Z Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy of the Athens Parliament, Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the regeneration of the Picrodafni stream in Attica, will not be discussed due to the unsuccessful obligations of Deputy Minister Tsironi. The fourth under number 152/31-10-2016 topical question of a second independent MEP from Athens Mr.Efstathios Panagoulis to the Minister of Finance, regarding whether the Minister of Finance and his relatives have returned their money to the Greek banks, as he urged the Greeks to remove the capital controls, will not be discussed. The fifth nr. 117/17-10-2016 topical question by Evia MP Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Finance, on the scandalous sale of TRAINOSE against the incomplete price of 45m euros. The sixth question, under number 123/18-10-2016, on the treatment of the interference in the Municipality of Piraeus, Perama, Korydalou, Keratini - Drapetsonas, Nice - Agios Ioannis Renitis, will not be discussed due to the inauguration of the central offices of the Private Debt Secretariat by Mr. Stathakis. The tenth, with number 59/10-10-2016, a topical question for the second-cycle parliamentary Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Eleni Zaroulia to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the reduction of the national sovereign administration of justice through the ratification of the CETA agreement between Canada and the EU, will not be discussed due to the opening of the Special Secretariat for Private Debt by Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mrs Zaroulia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u4	First of all, before I refer to this timely question which is no longer timely because three weeks have passed, I would like to make a complaint. In Thrace, SYRIZA MPs call on illegal gatherings against the third political party in the country. The fact that SYRIZA Members will participate in an illegal act is obviously nothing new. The actual new case is that they are proclaiming their participation in an unlawful act and it is worth wondering that a prosecutor has not intervened yet. Among the other slandering and slandering, their announcement concludes that: "On Saturday, November 5 at 17:00, we participate in the anti-fascist rally in the central square. MPs: Hussein Zabeck, Stathis Giannakides, Gregory Stoyannides". Golden Dawn has events as a legitimate political party. Nobody has the right to interfere with the events of a legitimate political party. Now I want to say a few words about this question, which, as I said, has been tabled since 10 October and it is no longer timely because what was to be done was to take place on 28 October in Brussels. I would, however, like to dwell on two points in Mr Stathakis' speech within the committee before he goes on this agreement, which - and there are in the Minutes - that the full implementation of the agreement requires the approval of all the national parliaments. Fortunately we have seen that the Wallonia Parliament has stopped this. On the contrary, the SYRIZA Government has neither preferred nor objected to it but preferred to consent. This means that he is submissive to the foreign factor, because there is nothing different from that. In other words, Greece could have stopped it. So there goes a SYRIZA Minister a priori to sign an agreement, for which the Greek people do not know anything and have not come to Parliament to discuss the parties, as I have asked, with an increased majority, because it relates to the national sovereignty of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Zarulia. The first part of your speech, of course, does not concern today's sitting. It's only about her question. I repeat that the first part is not about discussing the topical and urgent questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u6	It's not about, I just want to denounce that he hasn't come to discuss it. Now is not the timely question. I would like to point out that these manipulations...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u7	I said about the events of Thrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u8	This is a complaint that should have been heard, because we have legal political gatherings as a legitimate political party. As you refer to this, I would like to tell you that no one has the right to interfere with the third political party in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u9	That's not what I told you, Mrs. Zarulia. I said that the debate on the topical and urgent questions has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u10	You're not telling me, am I anywhere else to make the complaint? Did the channels get us out and I don't know?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u11	I didn't say that. I said that this meeting is not competent to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u12	Yeah. I make a complaint so that the one who has to hear it and take responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. The ninth question will be discussed under number 63/10-10-2016 by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliamentary of the New Democracy, Emmanuel Konsolas to the Minister of Research and Religious Education, on the depreciation of Rhodes from the cancellation of the establishment of the Department of Tourism, based in Rhodes and English-speaking departments of tourist studies, which will be addressed to foreign students with tuition fees. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mrs. Anagnostopoulos. Mr. Consola, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for his opportunity today to discuss a very important issue. Mr President, you, too, are well aware that this question is extremely topical, since there are procedures in the country relating to the national dialogue on education, but above all to the government's effort to finalise and consolidate a debate and a decision by the previous government, in relation to the IT school for tourism. It is extremely timely, Mr President, this question, because, unfortunately, developments come to cover decisions of previous government in November 2014, where then in a very specific way and after a thorough discussion the Greek state decided to establish schools of tourism at the level of HEIs both within the University of the Aegean and within the University of Crete, two HEI schools which concerned Greek-speaking and English-speaking respectively in Rhodes and Crete. Unfortunately, however, you know that the procedures at the time of the election of the President of the Republic have thrown down the previous government and have not proceeded with the completion of presidential decrees and accreditation procedures, so that the commitment of the Ministry of Education's leadership cannot be implemented with regard to teaching staff, resources and other procedures for the establishment of these schools. Ma'am, I know you're an experienced university. Do you realize the continuity of the state? I would like to remind you that that effort was a universal request from all the institutions of the Dodecanese and the island. I will submit to the Minutes the unanimous decision of the actors in the region in order to support that effort. However, this is a problem, which concerns the country in general, the only country in Europe that does not have an IIT, a country where we have put tourism as a forefront of development and of exiting the crisis. That effort has therefore been delayed for two years now, and unfortunately we are in the deadlock by the Rector's unanimous decision in the previous period, to be covered by a new decision in order to establish this section not in Rhodes but in Chios. I would therefore ask you to tell me if you know this procedure and the decision, if the government has helped in this direction, and why the previous political leadership decision has not so far been taken for two years, so that we can establish what we have said in the sections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u15	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, this is a good question for both the special interest of the courses of tourism and the general interest of the establishment of new departments in the HEIs and TEIs. First of all, I would like to say that for the part of special interest, the English-speaking section in Rhodes, a decision was taken without preconditions. When I say 'without preconditions', not the specific conditions that a department must have to open and also the more general conditions for discussion, we will build in the universities English-speaking first-stage courses with tuition fees. This debate has not taken place at all and it has been decided overnight, as we have seen many times before, to become part of particular places, for reasons - I understand it very well - tourists etc. There is a major issue here, Mr Colleague, which we are dealing with with undergraduate programmes. The Constitution says we have public and free education. By way of derogation from the Constitution, the Council of State decided in 2012 that in postgraduate degrees there may also be a tuition fee very low and the joint legislator decides them. Since recently there has been a debate on the Council of State, whether or not we respect it, I see a circumvention of both the Constitution and the decision of the Council of State on these matters. No ordinary legislator decides anything. Are institutions coming alone, putting on what they want, and in this case without any more general debate, opening in the middle of good weather? They do not even open up for academic reasons and much more when they provide for tuition. Mr Consola, I will tell you that even in hard neoliberal countries such as the Netherlands, to open up a postgraduate non-graduate level, foreignlanguage, English-language masters' programme for foreign students with tuition fees, and above all high, there is a code of conduct drawn up by the Ministry of Education and signed by universities to do so, otherwise we will have an uncontrolled trade within the public good that is the highest institutions. For this particular case of Rhodes and Crete we are in constant discussions, because we need to have a strategic planning. We are in constant discussions with Mrs Koundoura, with the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism, for the upgrading of tourist schools and their integration into universities. This debate is taking place, in particular, on Rhodes and Agios Nikolaos, and it is being coordinated so that we can have a map. I want to tell you that it has nothing to do with Chios. I am sick of it - I am telling you this - for a year of local conflicts, whether or not something will be founded or not. Chios is completely different. In Chios, there was part of the project and the project "ATHENA" thus closed it to the good of the seat. It's another case. Let's not put a conflict between Rhodes and Chios. It's unfair. There is, however, a major issue of upgrading the tourist schools and one of the first things we have planned is to upgrade and join the university, the tourist school of Rhodes, as well as Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Consola, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u18	Minister, as far as we are concerned, you need to know that since November 2015, we have submitted a relevant document and have asked the Ministry of Education's leadership along with the Chairman of the Committee on Morphic Affairs to discuss here at the National Representation as a whole the issues of tourism education and training in the country. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. You really impress me and surprise me now, saying that we are cut off to upgrade the schools of ASE, which are productive schools in the Ministry of Tourism. You, as Ministry of Education, would like to know what position you have in relation to the upgrading of the studies that the Greek territory now needs for tourism. You haven't answered us. I understand that position for your English-languages. What do we do about the Greek-languages? We have not discussed tourism education at all in recent years. I would also like to say to you, since you are talking about automation between cities, that the burning issue is not Rhodes or Chios or Thessaloniki or Crete or Piraeus. The important thing is, if you agree, that there must be tourism education at the level of EIT in the country. I would remind you, therefore, that the Institute for Regional Development of the Panteion University, since 2005, has submitted a comprehensive regional development map, with the main poles and centres where there should be some schools, including it prioritises tourism studies in the country. Let me remind you, too, that this project was a very important presumption for us, so that the South Aegean Region and also the City of Rhodes will proceed in the strategic development plan of the region in general - the period 2014-2020 - in which tourism education is given priority, so that there is a consistent need for prospects for tomorrow and what the market really wants. The market creates the climate. The market, therefore, needs the highest level in the schools of tourism to exist. Greece is the only country in which it does not exist. Does the Ministry of Education intend to do that? You know, the dean told us at an enlarged meeting - I will submit relevant documents on the Minutes - to the Municipality of Rhodes a few days ago, that there was a communication from the Secretary-General of the Ministry with the dean and an encouragement to make a relevant decision so that it could be in the computer. So either you don't want to formalise that dialogue or you still don't know whether there's going to be a school of HI tourism in Chios or Rhodes. I will put forward for the record the unanimous decisions of all the Rhodes authorities that they support this effort. You know very well, you are an experienced university, that it is very important in our days to have AEI Tourism. Dare it and do it. We'll support it. We believe that Rhodes deserves this. There is also the decision of a section of Rhodes, which differs from the university's senate, which says it should be made in Rhodes. It is not possible in the province of tourism with the hundreds of thousands of arrivals, in a city that is connected with a hundred and eighty destinations in the world, in a town that can support all the alternative forms of tourism, you have a valid university to tell me about upgrading the ASE and make it superior. I guess we're in the wrong place. We must be honest with what we want. If Mrs. Kundura wants to upgrade the Astro, we'll support her. But you must respond if you believe in the tourist upgrade of the territory through higher education structures, and if you have decided to do so this year and join computers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Madam Minister, I must also speak and tell you that in the 2000 Parliament, with the recommendation of the then Member, Mr Spyriou, the House accepted the Rhodes Tourist School. The then Minister for Education retrospectively said that this cannot be done. In other words, in this House this provision has gone through, in an amendment, I will find it and I will give it to you, Minister, but it has not been implemented at that time. The general point, however, is that tourist schools should be held in the areas of tourism. That's logical. This should be seen in general not only local, because we are talking about Rhodes right now. I say this to you, to give you the information that there is a provision that was passed by the House to make the Tourist School of Rhodes a higher school. Madam Minister, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u20	Thank you. Mr. Consola, you surprise me, because your question is about English, about foreign students at a degree level. It is quite different - because your question was essentially - what you are saying to me. The design we are doing is indeed, a plan to see what is going on with the tourist schools, the tourist departments, the tourist departments, the departments of tourist studies, and to have, that is, an overall strategy for tourism. You told me that in 2005 he had studied the Panteion University. From 2005 until today, eleven years have passed. Do you know what fragmentation is right now? There are tourist schools, departments in the TEIs, some other way in the universities. Honestly I say, I may fall behind fast, but I really want to see who this map is, where there are, and how we can make a design that is effective, step on his feet and don't change it every three or a little bit. I have said a number of times - and I have told the Dodecanese Members - that in Rhodes, like Agios Nikolaos, we want schools that are higher, that they should be tourist schools, that they should produce reliable and high levels of tourism. No one has any objections. I told you that I have had this conversation with Mrs Kundura for just one reason, that there are already some schools. In other words, there is a series of debates. It's not just one thing. Let's see, the existing schools can be superiorized, incorporated into universities, or do we have to build a new one? Mr. Consola, making a new one means that we have credits, that we can staff them, because at that time Mr. Loverdos' decision had been accompanied by a reservation from the Aegean University Senate, which said they needed credit, human resources and buildings. All this must be seen and not discussed in the air. I agree tomorrow morning to be in Rhodes. That is why I started the debate on whether the existing schools can be highered. Let's not start where we don't have infrastructure. I also committed myself to going down to Rhodes, to have an image and to discuss with the local players. I am referring to Rhodes and Agios Nikolaos. I shall mention one last point on Chios, which I do not put on topicals. The senate has made a decision. I have not had any discussion yet with the Rector University of the Aegean on this issue - and I stress it here, no discussion - just the Department of Chios had been closed down from the project "Athens". The Senate has the right to make any decision he wants. I cannot forbid it, i.e. the political leadership of the Ministry of Education cannot prevent a university from making any decision, since it has the self-employed. From there on I have not had a conversation with the Dean of the University of the Aegean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much. To intervene again, Minister. Universities are, indeed, independent of making decisions, but they need the state's financial support to implement the decisions. So the state can act positively or negatively, not directly, because the university has independent expression and implementation of an opinion. But financially, it must be supported. The second question will be discussed under No 153/31-10-2016 of the First Cycle of the New Democracy MP Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the government promises for the unique fertiliser industry in Greece. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, before I enter the essence of my position, for reasons of economy and the organisation of the debate I wanted to say this: because he has tabled a question for the JRC's colleague on the same subject, and we have agreed with the Minister that they should be discussed together, organise the procedure so that we can develop our questions after each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u23	No objections. The Bureau accepts your proposal, since it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have a great deal of experience, greater than I do in these cases, and I'm sure you will agree with what I'm about to say. It is extremely unusual that, even though this implies, a dispute between employers and workers, on the terms of an indefinite contract or a fixed-term contract, with specific earnings or with other earnings, has become - as has been done in this case - a maximalist dialkystinda, where each side seeks not much or much to prevail entirely on the other side, its opposite side, and thus turns into an acute social problem, not to the industry in question but to the local society. This has been done with the fertiliser case. For the time being, the factory may be operating - and indeed, from what I am hearing, operating at a full pace of production, having taken up the position of those who have been made redundant - but there is the fact that a hundred and eighty people have lost their jobs, and have not been given access to the unemployment benefit since they are still pending - and they will, of course, be tried at the appropriate courts. Therefore, you understand how acute this problem is and how it is evolving, I would say, in real cancer for the local society. We have people who really face survival problems in despair terms. On the other hand, I know - and I am a little analyzed about the real situation - that the OMD, the Mediation and Arbitration Agency, is calling on the part of the party it has taken to close the case. A number of courts will be held, in particular the ones concerning the suspension and the status of redundancies. But I wonder how we got this far. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I am very afraid - and here is my conclusion - that they have been cultivated by governmental factors - not by you, by the Ministry, because you personally have shown restraint in the attempt to mediate so that the common place - hopes, too much expectations, have also been given assurances on the part of redundant workers that they will be fully respected. And I think that it has contributed to the escalation of the dispute and possibly to the extremities. I'm reminiscent of manager's statements. The Deputy Minister of State, Mr Fotou, in June, told them, in front of them, that a bill is being promoted by the Government in order to enable workers to manage the industry self-managed by the social cooperatives. If that's possible! Three government MPs for impression said that if no solution was to be found by the end of the summer, they would have submitted their resignations. They haven't given up, of course. This, however, creates expectations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u25	Please, Mr. Panayotopoulos, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. As soon as the Minister of State, Mr. Flamouraris, assured those who went to see him, that a strategic investor is being sought. And I wonder if all this has to do with this dispute and how it helps to normalize this dispute. So I ask what is the government's overall plan for all things that have been said at times and have created hopes and expectations for people who are currently seeing their lives collapse, and what further relief measures your Government plans to help those people who are currently facing and dismissing, but also literally the struggle for survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. In application of Rule 131, the fourth joint question with number 161/1-11-2016 will be discussed by the Greek Communist Party, Mr Athanasios Bardalis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the hundreds of eighteen (180) workers of the New Karvalis fertilizer factory in the Regional Unit of Kavala who have been in racing mobilizations for five months. Mr Vardalis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my question has the same content, but the issue is raised from a different perspective. It is not generally a dispute between the employer and the workers. This is a carabina attack on workers' rights. And in that sense, I would like to put this very side of the responsibility of the current government and the measures it needs to take to stand alongside the workers and against this attack on the labour market. We all know that we have been discussing the issue, that for almost five to six months workers have been mobilised. Why? That's how he got them down? The employer’s attack was specific. It changed working conditions and forced them to sign individual fixed-term contracts - it was undetermined - and, at the same time, to reduce their wages by 25% with a view to up to 45%, that is, half. The substance is: The workers who did not accept this new contract that he proposed - in fact it was imposed - fired on them by the employer. They fought. Those who were strikers fired - a hundred and seventy out of eighty workers - with the known vagina, as Mr Panagiotopoulos said, that is to say he sued them not for transgressions during working hours, but for fighting. I mean, she criminalised the strike. The questions we ask are specifically because we consider redundancies to be illegal. What are you going to do so that redundancies are taken back and workers return to their jobs, with all the rights they had from previous collective agreements? What measures do you intend to take so that all this time before workers return to work will not have any effect? What are you going to do to ensure that workers are relieved in this direction? They could, for example, freeze their debts, carpets or there would be no water and electricity. Finally, you promised to grant an exceptional allowance, but not yet given as far as I know. What do you intend to do? Will you give it to me when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank you for raising such a crucial issue, but also for the modesty with which you have developed the questions, although Mr Panagiotopoulos has said it is a very important issue in the local society. That is why, as the other colleague has said, it is not simply a question of generalised tactics in the context of the well-known working jungle to challenge acquired labour rights by renegotiation of labour relations. Here we have this almost unprecedented phenomenon of the suspensive industry, which I am not going to put forward, but indeed it is a surprise to me. I do not have a comparable size in Greece in my mind, although working conditions and the working jungle are the same. Also, a particularly problematic issue is the triangular relationships between the parent company, ELFE S.A. and the companies that have been created - it seems as adjacent - and there is a transfer of activity on the one hand and thus overcoming the obligation of the employer to keep even this stunt, incomplete labour legislation. We have seen these and tried to intervene in every possible way. You know, anyway, that the Ministry has held three hundred tripartite meetings on similar topics in other workplaces. Here is one of the cases where we have placed particular emphasis. I'm telling you what's happened. There have been two tripartite meetings with the presence of both parties and yours, as you know. It was inappropriate, as you know, because of the procedure, in my opinion, of the employer's rigid attitude. Then there were separate meetings. I was present at these meetings. From there on, the Secretary-General invited the workers' representatives and their legal advisers to meet. There was a self-evident meeting with representatives of the company to convince them of a change of attitude, especially in terms of suspension and re-entry. Regular checks have been carried out by the Labour Inspectorate of Kavala and by the Regional Directorate of Thrace. Infringements have been detected and sanctions imposed. For example, on 24 August, Kavala was controlled by the Kavala Labour Inspectorate of Kavala and fines were imposed on ELLAGROLIP and on PFIC LTD 31,648 EUR in the first and the second. In fact, so far, I've only talked about the employment issue. There is also the second dimension concerning the economic existence and smooth operation of an undertaking as part of a general dismantling trend. In addition to our efforts at the Ministry of Labour, two meetings were held by the Minister of State, Mr Flavouraris, to see how this important economic dimension of the issue could be addressed. So, it's not just oligopoly that our government has shown itself. On the other hand, as you know, it is not possible, even when there are breaches and possibly drunken actions - I would say - as in this case, redundancies are overthrown by a decision of the Minister of Labour. There's no such thing as that. That competence belongs to the courts. What we will continue to do is to try to find a solution both at work and at the socio-economic level. Mrs Fotiou's references were obviously in the bill on the social economy that has already been submitted. There is no contradictory or conflicting behaviour within the government in this matter. Finally, on the issue raised by my colleague from the Communist Party, a availability allowance has already been granted by the OAED - that is paid - and there is also this exceptional financial allowance of EUR 1,000, signed by me and pending the final signature by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Juliarakis. I think that's a matter of days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u31	You have the floor again, Mr Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, yes, I did try to keep low tons in some form more moderate to the development of my position, because I really believe that in this case we should not put any more oil into the fire and I have kept this stop from beginning. From there on, however, I told you that this is where a real situation is being created as long as time passes. In other words, we have a number of workers who have been made redundant because of this dispute that has led to these moves. The courts will become the courts on redundancies, yes, but some time will be spent and, therefore, this situation may be further consolidated. In the meantime, the factory works and so it has to do, because it has to see its own production issues. It's a productive unit. Some workers have been replaced. Therefore, if a matter arises, you will have the other side to appeal to you and say: 'What will now happen with us, if they are overturned - I am talking about a scenario that may evolve - redundancies will we now have a problem?' So the problem is acidified and of course it turns into a social one. If anyone has to study as a model how the cohesion of a local society breaks down - I told you two months ago and at a meeting of a Commission - it is important to see this case in order to understand how this thing is done. Workers who have spent years in the same workplace have turned - and in terms of strong controversy, extreme behaviour - or have turned around, even if tons have fallen lately, against each other, and that is not the best thing, as you can see, for the local society. From that point on, I insist. The impression has been created by statements by government officials - and indeed - and hope has been cultivated, not to say that certain specific assurances have been given, that in this country, with that government, if a worker or some workers have a strong dispute with an employer, they will force the government to change the employer. Isn't that outrageous? Isn't the situation heading in the wrong direction? Are you not taking your neck - to say it as raw as I can - not personally, but government officials with that reason that they are developing, people who rely on government support for some hopes to prevail in their dispute with this employer? I threw the tons. I fear, however, that it has not been done the same thing with all those who have so uncontrolledly over this unpleasant situation of these people. That is why I would like to suggest to you, because you also have some specific experience of working disputes, firstly, looking for a solution, bringing the sides back to the negotiating table, not only to take some relief measures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I know that it is not so simple to pay a single aid to some workers who are currently fired, so they do not work, have no access to the unemployment benefit. But if you say so, I will have to take it as true and take it. From there on, however, tones must definitely fall, both sides must return to the negotiating table and the solution must be found. As long as time passes, I repeat, a fait accompli arises.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u33	Finish, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u34	So we expect you to change your rhetoric, leave this fruitfruit farming - let me say it like that - and deal with the reality here too. Let me tell you something else - and this is what I'm closing down - about the last placement of Flambury that a strategic investor is looking for? It is not so simple in Greece today to find itself with such ease - anyway, some time is needed - a strategic investor to invest in a productive industry like fertilisers. Let me say one last thing. I am sorry, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I think the first mistake made in this case is the 'I am voting - I am voting' of the industry's exemption from excise duty on natural gas. It has been done - supposedly - as a means of pressure for the employer. I am afraid it did not improve the climate, instead it had the opposite effect. This is another reassurance, another hope that has been cultivated towards the employers' side this time, which has just been overturned in a few days, while this dispute has erupted. So do something. Restore both sides to the negotiating table, in terms of real dispute and not of this silky-cylind "your death" type of "my life" that I described.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u35	Thank you. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor for three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. And because of time, but also because we know the matter, it is not a matter of describing the situation. The question is to give solutions to the specific problems of workers. The government tells us: The problem we know cannot blame us - that is what the Minister told us - that we are not interfering. He even mentioned what he has done in this time period. Mr. Panagiotopoulos says we need to find a solution. Yeah, but what solution? Is it a solution to sit at the table? So what? Six months now, they are talking, but it is not a solution. Minister, we do not dispute that you have been involved all this time. The question is in what direction this intervention was. The main problem is that there are hundreds of seventy workers who have been made redundant. How do we answer that? We cannot say that there is a new phenomenon of triangular relations, of transferring a company of own interests, namely Mr Laurentiadis, and in this case, of transferring workers, being made redundant, changing their working relationships to the worst, and the Ministry not to interfere, saying that this is a matter of legislation. And it should be a matter of legislation, Minister, that you should not have kept the same anti-government legislation for twenty months now. If necessary, where necessary, you had to change it to support the workers. That's what has to be done. So, if we look for a solution, it must be in this direction: how will workers be supported, how will they go back to work with full rights. As far as the more general issue is concerned, your attempt, as you say, to continue the operation of the operation, I want to tell you two things, in the time I have left. Now workers and the people in general, but especially in the region, have experience. We had the prior privatization of Kavala's phosphate fertilizers and Laurentiadis' arrival there. Let me tell you that at the time he had come as a star of healthy competition, which will invest, develop the company, there will be a terrible benefit for the local society. Instead, we had redundancies, wage cuts, a change in the worsening of labour relations. This is the reality and experience of both the employees of the company and the people in the region. Whatever new strategic investor, we will all be in the same spectators' work and the employees in this business. Why am I saying that? Because the main objective of this employer, but also of any new investor, will be the profit and as long as the economy is designed to serve the profitability of the respective Laurentiadis, labour relations and workers' rights will go to the bottom. Of course, the Communist Party of Greece will stand next to the workers, so that they will also have a job and return to work in modern conditions, as needed to meet the needs of the workers. In order to solve the problem, however, we need a single public body of fertiliser that takes into account the needs of agricultural production, that is, fertilizer production in general, but also meets the current needs of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Panayotopoulos, the position of the government and our Members is clear. We are neither observers nor neutral. With the world of work, we are also in favour of economic activity continuing in an area that you know that such industrial activities are extremely few. That was a start position that I could tell anywhere. But in this case, do you not ask yourself why this acidification exists and why is local society so divided? Does it seem to you that it has nothing to do with who the employer is there? Doesn't it surprise you to have these triangular relationships? To say this directly, can you want to take on your shoulders personally and the New Democracy Mr. Laurentiadis? Do you think this is the classic case of healthy entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u39	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u40	We have complaints of revolts, threaten and beat. We have, not complaints, but clear indications of triangular activities. We have the case of making massive complaints from the employer to the detriment of his workers. Is that a typical businessman? And when you say that you defend entrepreneurship, that kind of entrepreneurship you defend? From what I understand you said, neutral...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u41	Who defended this entrepreneurship? Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u42	Okay, so I figured it out, Mr. Panayotopoulos. I must admit that it's just because...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u43	I wouldn't even come here if I defended her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u44	From your style, I understood your modesty. However, from the contents of your statements, I understood that you have at least equal distances. We, by definition, are with the world of work. It is logical that a Conservative Party should be prepared to be closer, if necessary, on the employers' side. But which employer side and what entrepreneurship? That's what I'm telling you now. As far as Mr Bardalis is concerned, I would like to say to him that it is what you say. We must legislate to reverse the working jungle. You have to! That is what we are doing in the negotiations in this cycle of work. We are trying to reintroduce collective bargaining and return to European regularity. There are, of course, many things that we cannot do alone in the committee. But here, it is our commitment that what needs to be done is to continue operating the factory, not to lose one's job, and to stop the illegal and provocative actions that are escaping even from those standards that have been formed in the working jungle, which we currently have in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The debate will take place No 5/21-10-2016 on the topical and urgent question by the President of the Democratic Group of the PASOK Group - DIMAR and the party MPs, Mr. Luminous Gennimata, Paraskevi Christophilopoulos, Georgios Arvanitides, Evangelos Venizelos, Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Vasilios Kegeroglou, Charulas (Haras) Keftriou, Ioannis Koutsoukou, Dimitrios Kremastinos, Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, Dimitris Konstantopoulos, Andreas Lovertou, Ioannis Maniotis, Theodoros Papatheodorou, Constantinos Scandalidis and Michael Jeleni to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject "The insurance is not solved by cuts, lies and propaganda". With regard to Parliamentary Representatives, the following persons were designated by the Parliamentary Groups: From the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, from SYRIZA Mr. Christos Mantas, from New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Vroutsis, from the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis, from Potamis Konstantinos Bariotas, from the Independent Greeks Mr.Athanasios Papachristopoulos and from the Union of Kentronos the Megalokonomou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, could I say something about a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u48	I am sorry, too, that we will give the Minister the floor for a moment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u49	Since we are two Co-Presponsible Ministers, and the State Secretary, I would ask for the time we have to distribute him internally. I'm not asking for more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u50	Good. All right, Minister. So we enter the debate on the topical question with the first question Member, Mrs Christophilopoulou, who has the floor for ten minutes, and will follow six other Members of the party. Before you begin, Mrs Christophilopoulou, with your permission, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since she participated in the educational programme of the "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fifteen students and students and four teachers attendants from the 91st Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are a perpetrator of moderation, but I regret that on the issue we are discussing today, you cannot speak with much modesty, because, unfortunately, every day, you have another sad surprise for the pensioners of this country. Last case those who saw the new cuts in supplementary pensions from June retrospectively. And there is no need, ladies and gentlemen, for anyone to know many mathematics advanced or to make a legal high-level analysis to understand a pensioner who, instead of the additional EUR 150 he received, saw 25 euros in his account, that the insurance policy bearing the SYRIZA ANEL seal and your name, Mr Minister, is pooring him without mercy, nor is the pensioner who received EUR 216 subsidiary, and now takes less than 100 euros. What are you telling us? What do you say to the Greek people? What did the Prime Minister say in DUH? It's, it says, 10%. They're few. Be careful, ladies and gentlemen, there are few people affected. And I ask you: are four hundred thousand retired people with a sum of a principal subsidiary of up to EUR 1,180? There are fewer than four hundred thousand? And I keep going. Are there forty-five thousand pensioners who see their supplementary pensions cut, many of them and 40% and 50%? Are there two hundred and eighty-five thousand civil servants in public pensioners who lose dividends? Are there few people in the world who see their pensions reduced by 15% to 30%? Also, the other thing you say is that these are small amounts, very small. Really, how small is it for you 100 euros to 200 euros lost by half the country's pensioners? How much is that for you? Is it small? How small is it for you to cut the pension for our fellowman with disabilities and with increased needs, precisely because he has disabilities? And you didn't have mercy on the disabled either. How small is it to break the widows with 50% of the pension? Widows, handicapped and, of course, the low pensioners I mentioned and I must stress, because we have three hundred and ninety thousand beneficiaries of the EASA who will lose it - there are the first to lose it - by the end of 2018. This is the so-called left, which is taking the low-pension ERAS, which we have instituted. That's what you're doing. And you say that it is very little, and it is about a small percentage of the people of work who have now become distracted. But that's how you are, Minister. The left wings of the white collar, the posset, the 'right pocket' and the neoliberal memorials of Mr. Soible. That's you. Of course, in order not to blame you, you have learned enough from the Stalinist propaganda. There you get excellent as left, but completely monolithic. And what did you do? You sent Greek public letters, not to explain, as we requested. Because we have asked you to send letters in writing, to send letters in person and by service. And not what you did, with the signature of a minister, a political person, and with propaganda that we supposedly "we got insurance destroyed". And not only do you make them propaganda at the expense of the Greek public, party propaganda - indulgence - but you don't have them the numbers. You tell them more. You know, Minister, how many retired people do they get and others see in the letter they get? That's why they burned them. They weren't burned by a party bloke. They didn't burn them to opposition to the government. They burned them because you can't even manage. It's not like you're doing your propaganda. It's all you make mistakes! Your Government has charged the insurance total. Be careful, your government. We never said insurance had no problems. But notice: Two things had been requested in 2014: Three funds and the zero deficit clause, which would lead to a 7% reduction in supplementary pensions. Nothing else was there by the lenders in the insurance. Nothing else. What happened next? How was the Greek people loaded extra 86 billion from your memorandum? How did we go to the recession? How'd we go to the Capital Controls? How did these and the increase in unemployment affect insurance, so that SYRIZA - ANEL would be 2.3 billion? And don't listen to PSI, which PSI exists - because this is our great prerogative - in the preliminary draft budget and you supported it as government. Because it was indeed the PSI that took a great deal of debt from the backs of the Greek State, the State that supported the funds, which lost just from the PSI. He gave them more millions of euros than they had lost from the PSI. So don't listen to these propaganda candys. I say again that it was unnecessarily an additional EUR 2.3 billion for insurance. This law is not just the insurance tombstone. It's also the tombstone of the economy. Because you know very well that one is connected to another and becomes vicious circle. On the one hand, recession and unemployment do not fuel insurance. On the other hand, the insurance industry itself, when it breaks down productive powers, is contributing to further recession and hence further collapse of the insurance system itself. Sure, what did you do? On the contrary. Scientists, doctors, engineers, free traders, merchants, farmers? They have all entered the maximum amount of increased contributions, linked to income with a double incentive: Tax evasion and tax evasion. How can these people with this political and economic climate invest? To be able to act professionally? And to do so with an incentive to be insured rather than with an incentive to reinsurance, as your law introduces from the window? You're kicking out the productive forces. And so, you're kicking the insurance as much as your intervention. Did you ever want to have a dialogue? Oh, no. This time last year, Minister - I do not know if you will be today or tomorrow, but the same government will be - with the experts we first told you: 'Come and sit down'. We have presented our proposals at that time. And we had specific proposals for insurance. And we told you: 'Come on to have a dialogue'. Not only did dialogue take place, it was leaked. There was a dialogue with leakage and call to the Ministry. This is not a systematic dialogue, of course. And we ran to save the situation last winter with a Greek that was burning and with roads closed. The Prime Minister has chosen, at all times selectively, to call on employers and when farmers and never the GFCM. Look out, the Left ever has the U.S.S.A. So, you didn't have a dialogue. You didn't want him anyway. The other proposals you have not heard. You went and made this insurance defrost. We're telling you it's not coming out again. And I'm closing, Mr. President. I just need a minute of your tolerance. We heard Mr. Diaselblum putting the insurance company on the table again. And we support Greece and say: 'The requirements of lenders, at some point they should understand that there are limits'. There are limits to the Greek society, there are limits to the Greek economy and we have exceeded them beforehand. We are the ones who are talking about relaxing the Stability Pact on health, social policy and education. But, while Mr. Diaselblum says this and you tell him that the insurance is not closed, it comes to my mind, unfortunately, the famous cut you introduced and the personal difference. We told you then - and I will conclude - that personal differences can be cut off and fall like mature fruit, without any constitutional problems. And behind our minds was, and we didn't want to believe it, but we're afraid of it, that you'll use the personal difference to easily go the cutter and do what you said. And because you said, Minister, that the insurance policy has been closed, I am very afraid that with this catastrophic policy, not only has the insurance policy not been closed, but the whole opposite is happening. We are here to criticise. Our proposals exist, but from your point of view, I do not see any creative way out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. The second Member of Parliament has the floor, Mr Maniatis, MP Argolidas.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, pensions are perhaps the climax of a shameful policy that this government is pursuing. A policy that deeply embarrasss the country and much more the Left. Minister, you and the members of your Government have caused the greatest damage that has been caused in recent decades to what you are supposed to serve, and what you have deceived Greek citizens: the idea and values of the Left. Why have you betrayed those who well-meaningly voted for you and betrayed them with lies and vulgarity, with divisive and violent speech, with underground routes in relation to the right-wing paradox, with the concession of public property to foreigners, with the rape and the insult of the dignity of the Greek pensioners who made them inmates in the ravages, with the appointment of spouses and partners in state positions, by persecuting anyone who wants to invest even a euro in that country and with the relentless situation when the question arises: ‘Tell us, gentlemen of the government, have you created even a job in the private sector?’ the answer to be ‘not one’. So because it does not fit this country and the unemployed in this country to be the travellers and bets of the OAED, so the sooner you leave the government, the better for society and the country. You have evolved into the worst political and social nightmare of Greek society. But, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days, the government has also committed two political frauds. The first swindling we lived on her top just yesterday in the plenary session. The gross, unconstitutional Tsipras - Poppa law is not enough to fall into the Council of State, but we then had the uproots of the Government by the Parliamentary Representative at the expense of the country's Supreme Court, the underground routes and the leaks of information about the supreme judges, the humiliation of the retired Mr. Polydora, who then as the "the lemonkoup" gave him where he should be delivered and last night Mr. Poppas and the Government "they swallowed all things unreasonable". Behind all the responsibilities at the National Broadcasting Council, all from a point of zero, and in reality cancel the law that has offended and offended the independence of the National Broadcasting Council. The second political fraud is committed yesterday in the National Parliament and concerns the "Saint Grail" of government propaganda, the government propaganda, which says that we have given all the foreigners, we have bowed down, we have surrendered, but they will give us the debt. And debt is the government's top choice. And what does Mr. Juliarakis say yesterday? You know, he says, something? Debt is not panacea. So what recommends to the government the top political choice, the Minister of Finance admits that it is not panacea. After that I wonder what other designations a calm government evaluator could assess your course. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, will you please give me my term of denial, because I have another duty to do so, and I will not be able to speak again later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u54	Good, Mr. Maniot. You have another three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let us remember two - three key numbers. Three hundred and eighty-five thousand low pensioners lose their NSCR, the NSCR, which was established by PASOK in 1996. Two hundred and sixty thousand pensioners see a reduction of up to 50% in their subsidiary. It was supposed to be the government's commitment that only 10% would be reduced. Two hundred and eighty-five thousand public pensioners see a reduction in the share of the Equity Fund. One hundred and fifty thousand young pensioners reductions in invalidity and widow's pensions. Three hundred and seventy thousand pensioners' applications are pending. The area of free professionals and scientists is dismantled. Anyone who has 15 000 euros income, who has committed this great sin, pays for taxation and security more than 60% of his income. Only for security pays 5,700 euros. And, of course, you will answer, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and for another huge damage you have caused to the Greek people, beyond the loans, the debts of the "Baroufi negotiations", which Mr Moskovis in his recent book obviously considers with the Prime Minister to be the only ones responsible for the third and let us wish, not the fourth Memorandum. We lost as a public property, from the fact that we would go to 6% of the country's cumulative growth in 2015 and 2016, 20 billion euros. The Greek people should have GDP of 195 billion today and we have 175 billion. The disastrous policy of your own government of 20 billion and another 20 billion, which we lost from the recapitalisation of the banks. 40 billion of the property of Greek citizens has been lost because of your terrible, inconceivable negotiation. And I need to say about the disaster that you have already brought to the small and medium-sized professionals of the villages under two thousand inhabitants. To farmers, a couple of 12 thousand euros income - another great crime for the farmer is to have 1,000 euros a year income - gives 45% of his income for taxation and insurance contributions. Question after all: Is there another way? Are there any proposals? We put forward concrete proposals. Yes, we are a small party, but it has always been responsible, patriotic and socially sensitive. It is clear that we will not accept any further reductions in any pensions and we will table the following four proposals: The first proposal, tabled by Mrs Gennimatas at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition: For each new entrant who is not made redundant, EUR 100 of the employer's burden is to be regarded as a tax exemption of EUR 130, i.e. a 30% increase in the relief of the employer. Second proposal: Privatizations. You sold it to strangers. We ask you to renegotiate on where the revenues from the militarisations will go. And we ask that 25% of those left in the Greek State go to the insurance system. However, in order to do this, we should not see a headline, such as today, in a very serious newspaper that says "Greeks of Ministers in Investment".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Manatis, please conclude, because you have exhausted your time of denial.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u57	I shall conclude, Mr President. And where is it reported? In the new decision by Mr. Skourletis on Skouria, which the two and a half thousand workers in the mines of Halkidiki, Kassiopi who is stalling, the Greek with the seventy thousand workers you still trouble, the Star Vuliagmeni. So privatizations with social sensitivity and a dividend for the country's insurance system. Thirdly, yesterday Mr Pappas at the SCA said something right. He said you wanted to apply the Norwegian model for the Social Solidarity Fund from the oil revenues. Mr. Poppas said so. Next year, do you know Cyprus, Mr. Minister, how much will it collect from the land Aphrodite of natural gas? The Cypriot democracy next year will receive 600m euros from the Aphrodite look. You already have three signed contracts. You have six more files for six plots and eighteen months to sleep. It seems like you don't want to bring revenue to the Greek State, because you obviously despise private investors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Maniotis, please, you have to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. Finally, just a word about the afflicted construction industry. The 'Security Finance' programme has now been subsidized to absorb EUR 1.2 billion. Now. For every one million in energy saving, thirty jobs are created in the building. Calculate the more than thirty - five thousand jobs that can be created in the next few months in the building. Go ahead, otherwise as history has condemned you, you will soon be condemned by the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u60	Mr Cremastinos Dimitrios, Member of the Dodecanese Parliament and Vice-President of the Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Minister, the truths must be spoken and I advise you friendlyly to tell the whole truth. In 1994, you will not remember, I was Minister for Health, Welfare and Social Security, because social security back then belonged to the Ministry of Health. So then we received from the previous government, a law that the House had passed with Minister Sioufa, which imposed contributions. PASOK then electionally said that coming to the government would overthrow it. When I saw the reality of the insurance funds, I said here in Parliament that the insurance funds are a night bomb, which will eventually break into somebody's hands. And I convinced Andreas Papandreou not to take back the measures proposed and voted on by Mr. Soufas. So he didn't take the measures. After years, Mr. Yannisis came to say worse things and then the government almost fell. Everyone went out on the streets and wanted everything, asked for everything, benefits, not to pay anything, with zero tax etc. And Mr. Yannis left the government. My friend, Andreas Loverdes, came and suddenly said the famous "There's no one in the cashier" and shocked. But he said the truth. And I urge you to say the whole truth, which is really tragic, and I will tell you why. The government is trying to stand and face things. In other words, we almost dropped the PASOK - New Democracy government, because we said that 20 euros should not be imposed on hospitals at the time for hospitals. Finally, the Prime Minister got this back. But now, as soon as the SYRIZA government came, it erased the 5 euros, which was an expense for the people it paid for in hospitals, but with these 5 euros the hospitals paid the subsidiary doctors, corrected the damages, etc. There was an empty one. What's gonna happen? We add 6% to subsidiary and we increase 4% to 6% to normal pensions and the EEA is waiting for her to get the money to give to the hospitals, but she doesn't pay to the hospitals. Why doesn't he pay them? Because there's a blank black in the economy. So what's going on? Hospitals can't work. So, you're going to fix something, you're going to thank some people, you're creating a problem. These are spasm moves. This must be understood by the government, namely that the problems are not solved by spasmist movements. So that's the first thing we have to say. Secondly, it is worrying that if they eventually went to the EEAS, they would have around EUR 1 billion with EUR 1.5 billion and everything would work properly. That's not it, because there's the black hole in the economy and nothing's working right. So the government still pays the bill, because it really doesn't work anything right in hospitals. As long as I tell you that in "ATTI" the magnetic tombographer is two years broken and cannot be replaced. The biggest hospital! So, you see, it's self-proof. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Unfortunately, we don't have time. I will also have to use my dentistry, Mr President, to say a few things, because time is limited. It could, if the government had money from a big growth, pay off everything from the budget. But he can't. He doesn't. You could have had employee contributions. But all our young people are leaving abroad. Business is closing. Where do you get the contributions? By employers? Employers try, in every way, not to pay when legally and when unlegally and you know it. So there is the tripartite pillar of supporting the pension problem, the insurance, which is in total collapse. We are now talking about growth. But what growth? Can we consider development of non-productive development? So, if next year - as we had in the Olympic Games - do we have projects or get from the ESRB and have 0.5% or 1% growth, will this growth help the insurance problem? I don't think it'll help. I mean, it's not a question of growth. It must be productive. For productive development, however, we need investment and investors. When this investment ambiguity exists, i.e. when the investor has to go to court twenty times to finally make his investment, he will prefer the country next door, which is very simple to invest. He will prefer the next country, which has a tax of 10% and 15% - even Cyprus. Why would the investor come to Greece? So these issues, if the government fails to resolve them, are the same commitment to its perceptions. It can't be done differently. There is no way of standing the insurance if these individual problems are not resolved. Let's go to the Capital Controls. She said yesterday Mrs. Luca said they should be lifted. He's said it three times. Do you see the capital control dropping? Is there any security to make people return their money tomorrow to the banks? I wish. Is there any security to bring their money abroad? How will the capital controls be lifted? That is to say, words that are not practically applied. Can banks now finance small and medium-sized enterprises? They can't. How will growth be? So where do we get growth from? Can taxation be drastically reduced? If tax is not drastically reduced, why should the investor not invest in our next country, which gives him 10% tax and a certain tax-free time to invest and come to us that we ask for 40% or more, I do not know how much? If you look at all this, then, as a government, and not as a Minister of Labour, I understand your problem, then there will be a light in the back of the tunnel. Unfortunately, I - and I say it for once - in this way and this way, I see no light at the bottom of the tunnel. I see a dead end, big dead end. And of course, your next Minister for Labour will be forced - whenever it is done, I hope it is not now, but whenever it happens - to say worse things. He can't say better. So tell the whole truth, as all the ministers have done so far and tell the Prime Minister, because now he has reshape, all the truth if he really wants the country to go forward. Otherwise, our country is unfortunately heading backwards. I see that everyone says and repeats that unemployment is falling. But, imagine, if all the unemployed leave and go abroad, we'll have 0% unemployment. Half a million people have left. If they come back, is unemployment down? I mean, just math. And you see unemployment on television. How does unemployment fall? By leaving the unemployed abroad? Unemployment falls when there are productive investments, when they open up jobs, when they open shops and do not close. Then we say that unemployment is falling. And with all that, Mr President - as I see that my speaking time is over - I could speak very much, but what we have to say is that the part of our own, this historic party that gave Greece the social state, which was not at all in existence, has an obligation to support its positions. It has an obligation to say to the parties that, at least in popular terms, they precede, that neither of them supports it, but since they accept its positions it will support its views through the laws and stop saying that PASOK today supports SYRIZA and yesterday supports New Democracy. PASOK doesn't support anyone. PASOK has principles. The authorities have proved to have imposed them on the social state and with these principles they are going on. That is what we have done on the Television Council, and that is what we will do at the next meeting. PASOK really does not support anyone. On the contrary, he has noted the mistakes made by the SYRIZA Government so far and has led the country to this situation, which is currently in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Kremastino. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, forty-six students and students and five teachers from the 1st Xylokastro Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, Member of the Arcadias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today, reading that there will be a reform in a few hours, and I am sure the Minister will not have any concern. I think people like the Minister, who have told so much perfect lies from Syntagma Square, have so far been unreasonable. So, Minister, Mr. Tsipras is looking for good liars. He's got the best guy in front of him. So, for sure, under no circumstances will you be nervous that you will lose your place. But you will allow me, before I say a few issues on insurance, to fill in one more thing. It's not just what I said before. Mr Katrugalos is the supporter of 'good violence'. Listen to what Mr. Katrugalos said five, six years ago, when Mr. Pangalos asked if he could come to the University. Then Mr. Katrugalos was indignant. And he asked him, "Can I come to the University?" "Of course, you have the right," said Mr. Katrugalos, "whoever is exposed to politics should enjoy the praise, the chillers, even the kagouras, as you deserve, Mr. Pangale, for throwing the country on the rocks." That's where things changed. Now listen to Mr Katrugalou's verbalism at the IKA conference, at which they have come to be such good customers in the New Democracy, which the trade unionists of the New Democracy are now doing at the IKA. Now we're saying they're great scientists, they've done it all. Now listen to Mr. Katrugalo's verse. I read the transcript. Mr Katrugalos said to right trade unionists: “We must choose how to confront our arguments. Hulliganism or politics? With the sore speech or with the cries?’. This is Mr Katrugalos, the Minister for Labour of the country, who is an important official and will remain in the government. Now we're actually going to the point. We didn't even need to talk about insurance today. Citizens have gone to ATM and know what has happened in the country, what lies and what promises they made in the previous period. A reduction of 20%, a reduction of 20%, a reduction in pensions last May of EUR 2.5 billion, a reduction in the dividend to three hundred thousand pensioners and a reduction, of course, - which I do not know if they will be able to make use of - to the new pensioners. As for insurance contributions and new lawyers, engineers, doctors, it brings a very rapid increase and decrease in their income by 25% to 30%. I will give you an example. Lawyer with five years of professional exercise and a gross income of 20,000 euros, paid insurance contributions of 4,096 euros and a tax of 3,498 euros and the SYRIZA - ANEL law will pay insurance contributions of 7,490 euros and a tax of 2,730 euros. Besides, a few days ago what she voted for, she even voted for health care. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like one more minute, Mr President. Mr Katrugalos and the government did not believe when voting for the reinsurance policy that the day will come when the citizens, young and old, new workers and pensioners would see the bill. We, in fact, have a documented view and ideas in the Democratic Partnership. Our obsession is dignity and solidarity. Our ideal is investment and new jobs, so that there are no further reductions in wages and pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u64	We continue with Mr. Papatheodorou, MP for Achaias.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there are some symbolic errors in politics, small, most of the times of communication management, which create conditions of collapse much faster than real policy. Such a small political communication error was how to manage the government's political defeat by the Pappa law and the decision by the Council of State and subsequent management by the government of the whole case. A communication, symbolic error, which costs SYRIZA today - and we see it every day - is when supporters of individual rights come to cover homophobic views in Parliament. Does that mean anything to you? And this communication error is also about the importance we attach to the previous one and the current attitude towards this type of behaviour. A small communication error also, Minister, is your letter to the pensioners. I don't know which communication star suggested sending you your letter to the pensioners, but if you pay him, it would be appropriate to ask him about the outcome of this letter. The pensioners have understood two things: on the one hand, you are insulting their intelligence. I tell you because I have spoken with many of them, who are also in my closest environment. On the other hand, you are angering them, because when they go to see supplementary pensions, they find a few dozen euros. So here on the issue of this small communication management, I think there is also a mistake, but also a tragic indifference about how someone, who cannot make his month, will read a letter saying that all of this is well burned. So nothing was left as we knew it, in the insurance and pension system. The insurance system is crucial to the lives of citizens, it is crucial to the lives of future generations, it is also a matter that I really think should be left out of both micro-groups, but also of communication games. The measures to be taken by Mr von Wogau and his colleagues in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have been adopted. 4387/2016, jeopardise the decent living of the free professionals, farmers, workers, future pensioners, and the central right of all of them, for effective social security. After all, we should all not forget a fundamental rule - I think I found it in your book - that the state is not exempted from its guarantee liability towards retired people, regardless of whether they are successful or failed government choices. L.4387/2016 brings great increases in insurance contributions, linking contributions to income first and creating strong incentives for tax evasion and tax evasion. The increase in contributions for main pensions, health care, subsidiary insurance and one-off insurance leads to a total burden of 37.95% on the revenues of the previous year, when we now have some professional classes or specific classes of civil servants, such as the policemen, who, although they have been in retirement, see nowhere the one, nor see the prospect of getting it soon. In essence, any concept of productivity and creativity collapses. Society leads to a levelling-up. We have an unreasonable evasion and a burden for the self-employed, who eventually, along with the invasion of the invasion, results in a confiscation of income. The available income of the free professionals, Mr Ministers, is being depleted, and you know it, even from the industry, our own legal systems. For a free professional with no insurance obligations on an ancillary fund, taking into account insurance contributions, tax and solidarity, the rate of income left to low income touches the 25% to 30% on average, while in incomes of more than 10 thousand euros the rate reaches 50% on average, which is outrageous in itself to think about it. If we calculate additional contributions, the highest rates are reduced accordingly by 5% further. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will also take time from my dentistry. The possibility of selecting an insurance institution for new insured persons, who are first insured after 1 January 1993, is abolished by Article 17 of the Act. This creates huge problems for those who are employed as employees and have at the same time a professional activity or take part in a company, since they are charged with excessive amounts of insurance contributions. And as if not all of this were enough, while the insurance bill received flesh and bones only in May, September with article 1 of Law 4425/2016 comes a new series of unpleasant changes for professionals, for farmers, for workers in general, since provisions that were not even implemented until then are amended and abolished. The provision that small tourist accommodation owners pay for main insurance the reduced contributions by 2021, of OGA insured persons, namely people mainly in the barren areas of our country, is abolished. The provision providing for reduced contributions to health care for the first five years of insurance of self-employed persons covered by the Single Insurance Fund, particularly young professionals and scientists who now take their first professional steps, is repealed. Farmers had contributions of less than EUR 62.7 a month and up to EUR 136 a month. The new insurance scheme, inter alia, provides for an increase in the contribution rate by three percentage points and is structured from 7% to 10%, to gradually lead to 20%. How can we consider that there will be such growth in the primary sector? With the new provisions of insurance, there are increases in contributions without corresponding to greater future benefits for young people in insurance, costs for scientists, self-employed, with incomes of more than 25 thousand euros. From 1-1-2017 their contributions will be set at 20% of the taxable income. Increase in contributions for supplementary pensions by 2022 in two phases. The small so-called reductions, following troika pressures, were abolished for the young people insured. The market today lies, Minister, in absolute confusion. No one knows what he's gonna pay from 1-1-2017. It is characteristic that not all the circulars needed for the implementation of the new law have yet been issued. No one knows how it is fully implemented and the size of the undeniably negative and chain-reactions that its implementation will have, both in productivity and in the creativity of professionals, in the insurance of their investment and in the stabilisation of development, in order to ensure the viability of professional sectors.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Papatheodorou, let's slowly finish. You've exhausted the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u67	It is my last sentence, Mr President. The question, if all of this is taken into account, is this: in such a situation, Minister, how do you intend to close the second assessment? If the results are like the results of the first, then we really are no longer talking about collapse, we are talking about a new period of darkness that will come in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u68	Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Member of Parliament, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, I will also take the time of my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u70	The total five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u71	Yes, with your tolerance, as with the previous ones. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the country's insurance reform has been systematically undermined by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Unbelievable lies have been told against PASOK and Democratic Partnership. When we were trying to comply with the funds, Prime Minister Tsipras said that we took the money from the insurance funds and that with the PSI we deprived their reserves, which we did not support. So we built a myth on the PSI. So let's see what PSI means to the funds. They got tired of about 14 billion of the 22 billion that they had. When we say they are tired, it means that the state has taken account of them to reduce the debt, that is, the money has come out and entered the same pocket, because the funds are public sector bodies. Mr. Tsipras played with the psychology of Greek citizens. What's the truth, though? The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government with its catastrophic choices in 2015 led to a loss of EUR 86 billion in the Greek economy and new measures amounting to 2.3 billion in social security. However, such a need did not exist in December 2014. That's the reality, that's the truth. Minister, your law, the Katorugalou law, as it is said, is perforated and socially unfair. Interventions against the new scientists are extinguished. The small so - called reductions that have been made following some pressures are being abolished. In farmers, health contributions from 1-1-2017 to 6.1% increase sharply. Together with the tax raid you have imposed on them, the huge VAT on farms from 13% to 24%, the increases in the tax rate of the system for next year and the abolition of the refund of the income tax, are in fact inclined to be poor. You are driving farmers into extinction, poverty, unemployment. Let us stress, of course, that the insurance funds, such as the OAU, in order to find money for the payment of pensions, are resorting to the Solidarity Fund. You're pissing off the AAA. That's the truth. Let me remind you that by 2014 only EUR 145 million had been used by the AAA. Within a year, the current government has exceeded EUR 790 million. Creative ambiguity in the way you legislate has no end, Minister. Circular Applicants have not been issued. Pension services are unable to answer citizens. High pension rights are questioned. Recent example, teachers. In April you resigned to them, in June you fired them and then at the end of August, you asked them to come back. Employers, traders, free professionals don't know what they'll pay from 1-1-2017. Minister, with the new insurance, you are depriving pension rights of vulnerable social groups that have not guaranteed 15 years. You do not guarantee any sustainability in the insurance system. You drive the country with mathematical accuracy in the fourth memorandum, the hardest to come, for which of course you will need a new contract with the IMF. Let us not forget that the IMF has a twofold problem, firstly the sustainability of the debt and secondly the sustainability of the insurance funds and the insurance system. This will bring new, hard and painful measures which the current government cannot take. So tell the truth at last to the Greek people and respect the citizens. Gentlemen of government, finally put an end to lies. There is no protection for pensioners. For the first time, you are imposing 6% health contributions, thus reducing all pensions horizontally, mainstreamly and subsidiaryly. Up to now two hundred and forty-five thousand pensioners have been cut down by subsidiary. A total of four hundred thousand pensioners will be subjected to them. Two hundred and sixty - five thousand public pensioners suffered cuts in the dividends they received. Reductions in dividends and ancillarys amount to 40% and 50%. Two hundred and sixty-five thousand young pensioners will see reduced pensions. You brought the pensioners to their limits. We saw them burn their letters. They sent you the message yesterday: 'No further levelling'. Since June 1, CSR has been abolished for over 100 thousand low pensioners. By 2018, it will be abolished in total for another three hundred eighty thousand. The three hundred thousand of them will even lose it by 31-12-2016. Minister, the NSA is a conquest for the third age. It was established, as you know, in 1996 by the PASOK Government. By cutting it, you turn pensioners into destitutes to actually grant what? Feed cards. This is not called insurance reform, but insurance deregulation and extermination of pensioners. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are abolishing social security and that is why you will be judged by the Greek people soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Then Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis, MP in Thessaloniki, who is the last of the honourable Members. Then there will be the government's intervention by the Minister. Mr. Arvanitides, will you and your denology make use of it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u73	Yes, Mr President, I shall use my dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak in my turn and say a few thoughts on the impact of insurance on the countryside and on farmers. Perhaps you have heard me many times from this Step to insist on the need for the country's productive reconstruction. I do this, because I deeply believe that there is no way of creating conditions for sustainable development unless we turn to productive Greece, the main pillar of which is the primary sector, the farmers and the countryside of production. We must escape the misery and frustration that the government creates in the rural world and speak positively, with proposals for a rural area that will ensure satisfactory income, which will be attractive to young people, operating with synergies not only in the primary production chain, but also horizontally among the various economic activities developed in a place. For example, it is not possible in the 21st century to speak of a Mediterranean food basket with high quality PDO products and not to have common rural action plans with tourism, health and well-being sectors. I am talking about this in a debate on insurance, to highlight the main cause of the problem. As our country remains a champion in unemployment at the Eurozone level, there is no chance of returning to high or even decent pensions, quite simply because, as long as unemployment rises, the overall contribution is reduced. Consequently, the number one priority of the Ministry of Labour and the Government today is to build jobs in the countryside and not to tell us how to share poverty, nor to lie to retired people. And the only way to create jobs is growth, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, no matter how many letters you send, no matter how many interviews you give, no matter how much you try to make black white, the truth of ATM cannot deny it. And I am very sorry that not only do you have absolutely no plan for tomorrow, but you are implementing policies that are challenging the countryside and the Greek farmer. Let me remind you: Who increased the rate of taxation on agricultural income from 13% to 26%? Who taxed agricultural subsidies? Who increased the tax advance? Who tripled the OGA insurance contributions? Who abolished the reimbursement of excise duty on farmers? Who raised the price of the agricultural current? Now listen. Not having a plan, I can understand it. But destroying the countryside like this really does not understand. It is not enough to triple the contributions to the OGA, it is now the administration of the organisation and it is asking for forgotten debts of twenty years to sixty thousand farmers. You even tell them that they have to pay or be regulated by the end of the month. And if they don't, or if they don't prove that since 1998 they weren't insured in the OGA but in another body, then very simply pierce axes and punishment. Debts exceeding 5,000 euros will be automatically transferred to the insurance debt collection centre or entered into the black list of debtors, and even confiscations will be faced. In the islands, Minister, you have abolished the reduced VAT in the villages of less than two thousand inhabitants, remove the possibility of microprofessionals in the OGA and tell them that they have to go to OGA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u74	It's all the same again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u75	No, no. That's what we've said many times that we haven't done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u76	You'll answer. I think you'll have the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u77	Minister, I understand that you want to respond immediately, but then you will have the floor, so I believe you will have the opportunity to answer. Carry on, Mr. Arvanitidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u78	Minister, I raise this issue to get answers. All this can be improved, I think it is in the direction that we all want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u79	You are a very trustworthy speaker. My intervention just meant that I have said many times that this has not been done. It's written on...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u80	Minister, you'll talk to me later. Come on, Mr. Arvanitides.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u81	You have said and sent after letters that of course result in burning. However, these measures are not a way to persuade young people to return to the countryside, to return to the villages, to go back to the agricultural sector and not to the point, but to the whole of this policy. This policy prevents young people from turning to production, planning, dreaming, creating a Greece. Do you think that in the country all have so much money that they can afford to pay the tuition fees of your government and your choices? If we keep this up, there won't be any human being left in the region. We as a Democratic Reconciliation once again ring the bell. I told you yesterday in the debate on the broadcasting landscape. Stop behaving selfishly and accept reality. In this way you do not hurt the opposition, but you do harm the country. If you think we're rejoicing on the ruins of your policy, you're making a big mistake. What we are expressing at every opportunity is the agony for the country, because unfortunately the damage continues to accumulate, the slower, the more difficult, the more painful it can be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u82	We would like to thank Mr Arvanitides, who was the last of the prototypes, for the first intervention of the Members of the Democratic Alliance. We will continue with the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Katrugalos. Minister, because at the beginning of the question you asked to share the time of your prototype with Mr. Petropoulos, I will give you ten minutes of the twenty you are entitled to as a protology. Therefore, you have ten minutes - with a tolerance, of course - and, respectively, ten minutes respectively, Mr Petropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u83	I would suggest, Mr President, twelve and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u84	Okay, we're not going to waste time, Minister. There will be tolerance to answer and so on. In addition, Mr Minister, you also have the possibility of dentistry and tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u86	Here you go, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u87	There is no point in both Mr Petropoulos and the Minister speaking, simply having a corresponding tolerance for the Members of Parliament who will have the floor today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u88	Mr Brutsis, this is most of all because the Bureau, as you have seen at least today - I am not saying in general - shows the necessary courtesy, understanding and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u89	This is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u90	It is also a question of serious concern, as Mr Katsothotis said. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, have you not been ashamed to present it? And well, by Mr. Constantinople, I expected what I heard. Consistent in his past! Unfortunately, Mrs Christophilopoulou has been trying to look like him lately. But shouldn't we be telling the truth? Shouldn't we talk about evidence? Is the PASOK not the only party that has the responsibilities for bipartisanism to create the structural causes of the crisis, but also the only party that has signed all the Memorandum Measures, including the abolition of the CSCE with L.4337? I would remind you that the proposals of the Yannizi reform have also been the abolition of the CSCE. I have chosen to speak mainly with numbers and data, because you realise that everyone has a right to their opinion. But there is no one right to his or her own data. I have heard Mr Arvanitides, a well-founded and well-meaning man, repeat this well-known lie that has been said again and again and again in a discussion of Law4387/2016, that we have been abolishing protection in small shops, in small businesses under two thousand inhabitants. It was in article 40 of the law. He stayed with the exception of the owners of the rental rooms. So what do the evidence say? I asked the services to assess the interventions in insurance from the Memorandum of Understanding until we come to power, the consequences of Law No.4337/2015, the third memorandum that I recall was passed by us and by the New Democracy and by PASOK and by Potami and finally, the assessment of the consequences of the reform. Listen to the evidence. The impact of the reductions between 2010 and January 2015 was EUR 44 billion. Retired people's pockets came 44 billion euros. The effects of Law4337 are EUR 1.1 billion - in particular the CSR and the adjustment of age limits - and EUR 698 million are the interventions of the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u92	Who's signing...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u93	Exactly, Mr Brutsi, the officials you see there sign what I shall testify to. To avoid any doubt and to be out of political controversy, I say again that 44 billion euros have been stolen from the pensioners' pockets and 1,1 billion euros have come out with nr.4337. One who has not voted for any of these, but, for example, the Communist Party of Greece, will ask me: "So your argument is that the three and the New Democracy are harming each other and just some people are harming a little more?" No, that's not my argument, because you need to look at another number that's important to the economy. How much money do you say they were transferred from 2000 to 2015 to cover the deficits of the funds? It is EUR 214 billion, that is, two-thirds of the debt and much more of the Gross National Product, even in good times. How can this magical picture get about EUR 45 billion out of the pensioners' pocket, and yet a large black hole remains, for which we have to throw EUR 214 billion in? That's exactly why the insurance business, it wasn't a matter of resources, because you can't in a Danades bounce 214 billion euros, you have to rob the retired...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u94	Deposit the EUR 44 billion document!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u95	All this will be submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u96	So, the two memos are 44 billion euros? I doubt it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Brutsi, don't interrupt. You'll have the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u98	Submit the document that says that the two memorandums are 44 billion euros. Check it out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u99	He's lying, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Brutsi, please. Don't interrupt. You will have the opportunity in your speech to ask questions and to listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u101	No, Mr. President. He said something serious. To submit this document.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u102	No, don't interrupt. I'm not giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u103	The Minister cannot testify to numbers and we cannot know them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u104	But you're always interrupting him. You've been interrupted so many times!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u105	You can tell them in your speech when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u106	I am not giving you the floor, Mr Brutsi. Here you go, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u107	Now the documents are filed. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Security Mr Georgios Katrugalos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] My argument is exactly that, that is, not lies, not falsification of truth, but evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u108	Let's look at the evidence!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u109	Don't insurrect!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u110	Calm down, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u111	I am not speaking, in fact, about the elements that are being manufactured, but about what the Services give. So my argument is that the insurance reform has eliminated the operative cause of the deficits, which was the mismatch of contributions - benefits, because of the customer system of the two major parties, PASOK and New Democracy. This is how you managed the impossible, in other words, not to give adequate protection to the Greek people - you were giving islands protection to a sea of sub-protecting - but also to effectively rob the capacity of the economy. This is the worst of the two worlds. On the contrary, we imposed the least possible adjustment. Compare sizes. We are talking about 698 million euros in relation to 44 billion euros. I say once again that pensioners have every right to protest. The EUR 698 million may be a drop compared to the EUR 44 billion, but it is the drop the glass has left over. We are not telling anyone that the pensions we are now giving are too high, nor that if a euro is lost, it is little to do with damage. That's what we're talking We say that for the first time we intervened to have a fair insurance system. Justice means equal rules for all, rules of equality. Sustainable insurance also means a system that responds to social justice. That's where the national pension is. For the national pension, which was, moreover, the basic pension under Law 3863, the PASOK provided for it - it was EUR 360, when the poverty threshold was EUR 666, it was planned to reduce it, which means that today it would be EUR 341. On the contrary, we set it exactly where the poverty line is in poor Greece, which you delivered to us, at EUR 384. And we have ruled out any prospect of reducing it, since, from now on, contrary to the adjustment clause laid down in Law 3863, pensions can only be increased and no pensions can be reduced. You have the courage to criticise us for adjusting the subsidiary. Yours is the nerve, not the agony of the retired. With the zero deficit clause you agreed to...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u112	Did you see them in the square the other day? Go to the square and see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u113	Ice your laughter, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u114	Please be quiet, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u115	You're talking about courage!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u116	Quiet, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u117	Please calm down. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u118	Zero deficit clause what did it mean? It meant that all the subsidiary's deficits had to be automatically passed on to pensions, as you will see in the service documents. This meant that 750m euros, which is the ancillary deficit, had to go automatically to lower pensions. That would mean, in mid-weight, 30% reduction in all. What did we do? We protected pensions where we could, entirely for the main, the sum of principal and subsidiary up to EUR 1,300. And indeed 10% are all those who have been affected. And you said that number, you said two hundred thousand. We have, in other words, protected the small and medium-sized pensioners where the economy has allowed them today. But, above all, we have ensured that they have a pension next year, not like you. There is a claim that the system had been balanced. However, the deficit of our system was 6% in 2010, it was 9% of GDP when we received it. You increased it by 50%, despite the robbery of pensioners.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u119	Today how much is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u120	It's all printed up in the documents I deposited. And as if that were not enough, it turns out today that, at least, Mrs Christophilopoulou is related to the International Monetary Fund, not even to Diaselblum.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u121	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u122	The shame is yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u123	Please! Nothing will be written in the Minutes. Mrs. Christophilopoulou, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u124	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u125	Please sit down, Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Nothing is written in the Minutes. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u126	If there was a shame, you wouldn't have tabled this question. It's your shame. The Greek people know and no matter how much you shout, you are few anymore, you are not heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u127	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u128	The deficits we received are huge, falling. It is, for example, the IKA's revenues that had an increase of 5% in the tenth period. In addition, with the rise of the economy since 2017, the second condition for the viability of the system is fulfilled. Because, badly lies, the best insurance system with vast unemployment of 25% cannot be sustainable. I could expand - I don't want, because I don't have time - for all this nerve to give up on things you didn't do. The one thing has had to be filed since 2013, we're paying for it. The main unfinished pensions were a hundred sixty thousand when we took over. From this stock we remove 10,000 every year and from the money we get from the due date there will be virtually no unfinished pensions in 2017. We're going to pay another 114,000 euros. As long as we are in the government, personal difference is completely guaranteed by law. But when Mr Mitsotakis said that in exchange for the best financial proposals from the lenders he is willing to reduce costs, where does the bell ring? The same is true when it talks about structural changes. Where's the bell ringing? For further work deregulation. But this is another debate. As far as the new system is concerned, and among you, you did not agree with the figures you gave on how much the burden on young professionals is. But they gave each other and the other. The truth is both at the level of contributions and at the level of pensions the new system gives better results for those with average labour income, whether from wages or from a free profession, under EUR 1,000 per month. How many are there? 80% of employees, 90% of self-employed and 95% of farmers. And look out! Our system maintains, at a time when Europe is in dispute, the basic features of a system of fair and progressive, i.e. public, redistributive, with replacement rates that are the best in Europe for small and medium-sized incomes. And contrary to what you say, these interventions have already begun to deliver to the labour market level.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, the Minister has already spoken for fourteen minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u130	Minister, it would be nice to finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u131	I shall conclude, Mr President. But anyway, there is time from tritomelia, which seems to be unnecessarily necessary, which you consider to be exhausted now. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, truths must be heard. Insurance is indeed a national issue. Allow me, in just one and a half minutes, to answer the individual questions that you have put for institutional reasons only. You know the answers! It is a lie - and you know it - that public money was used for letters under a programme agreement with ELTA, where it was agreed to provide additional services to pensioners, especially where we do not have offices, in isolated islands or mountainous areas. The reason why the letter was written was to explain the mechanism to pensioners for the first time and to address this poisonous cloud of misinformation. It was not the slightest mood, but it did not appear to be any attempt at propaganda. I have spoken about the incomes and contributions of the free professionals, as well as the delay in the awarding of pensions. With regard to the growth of actuarial deficits - which is the last question - it appears in the submitted documents from the agency that when we took over the funds available from the AACP it was 4 billion, and now it is 5 billion. So despite the continuing lies and despite the distortion of reality, the truth is one. As much as the New Democracy and the PASOK are trying to show that they had balanced the insurance system, they gave us an insurance system bankrupt and, above all, structurally undermined by the pre-parator sin of the political system of patronage and customerism. This insurance system has been set up on its own in terms of justice, in terms of equality, and we are very proud of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The floor is now held for 10 minutes by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Minister, Giorgos Katrugalos, has already given the outline of a policy which is now accountable for the state of the social security system and is the policy that you have served, which you are asking today why things are so. And because in the past, Mr Brutsis had referred to a proportionate study which would correct things with their own interventions, the previous governments, namely, and because we have to speak with responsibility for such a top social issue as social security, I must recall that the assumptions taken into account in order to be the sustainable system led to an increase in the age limits in seventy-two years to obtain a pension with 48.5% for gentlemen and 8.29% for the subsidiary from an average of 62% for the mains and 18% for the subsidiary. All this is based on a situation that has been shaped after the repeated reductions in pensions, a total of some EUR 4.4 billion of which is enough to say that it comes only from the abolition of Christmas and Easter gifts. If we resign because we have not overturned all the consequences of your policies, the answer is that we have been ahead for a long time and we will see the results of the reforms that have been made to the social security system. And these odds will be assured that they will begin to come soon and with positive results for the insured as well. First of all, because there are figures about how much the free professionals will pay, I will tell you once again that what we have implemented in the law is that what the associations of traders, craftsmen and professionals, the GATTE and the GSE, that is to say, and they know very well that it will bring about a genuinely supportive field on which every professional and craftsman can base his efforts to develop his business in the context of what our policy creates and improves. We have said before - since the question actually recycles old questions and old debates that have been conducted in a way that was complete and which have been answered, but are returning in the same way as they return to the media, in a dominant media portion - that there is a cut in supplementary pensions, a cut for 10% of those receiving pensions and repeated every month, as if this were a new cut for each of them, in order to create a picture that other cuts are coming, while there is no multitude of cuts, there is a cut to those which we have set, that is to say, up to EUR 3,300 minus for those receiving main and subsidiary pensions. But you're telling us about 10%. For the remaining 90%, which he sees in his hands, you do not tell us that we have indeed dealt with the problem which would otherwise be explosive, because the reductions in the subsidiary of everyone would exceed 30%, that is, those who needed protection. We couldn't protect pension income. Do you propose to apply this, namely once again to cut the pensions of everyone at these limits, which are objectively created as a need to cover them through these reductions? We have opted for the protection of low incomes and this reduction has actually occurred to 10% of the people who receive subsidiary pensioners, which is escalating to the level of protection of EUR 1.300 mixed. Ladies and gentlemen, the social security system could not leave it as it is. And it would be a huge responsibility of this government if he left things as they were. Because in implementation, starting on 1 January 2017, you will see that the results will indeed be positive for the social security system, which becomes sustainable, but also for the insured themselves. I will tell you from now - and you will note it in practice - that farmers' pensions, for example, are being made abundantly, and some people are again triggering an opposition to the government, from 2017 onwards, will have an increase of 2% every year with the new system, when in 2026 farmers' basic pensions have been zeroed, as since 2002 and every year since then they have fallen by 4% until they disappear, because 100% is completed in 2026. Faced with this prospect of total abolition of all social security rules for farmers, I am announcing - and it will obviously be confirmed - that the problem is mathematical - that farmers with the new system will have a 2% increase in their pensions for each year, which will reach 2031 to 10%, in relation to current pensions and not to those who are missing in 2026. From there on, it will balance about 5% the average increase in agricultural pensions. I would remind you that farmers are now involved in the national social security system on an equal footing, like all Greek citizens, by receiving the national pension, which was not paid in the past. It was said about widow's pensions that they were reduced. I will repeat what I have said, at least four times from the Stepping of the House: there is no reduction in widow’s pensions or the abolition of widow’s pensions for those paid up to the beginning of the law. And it will be finalized as soon as the National Statistical Office gives us these factors, these factors, which will function for the purpose of determining the pension. I would remind you that the pension is now calculated on the basis of the discounting of the value it would have had in the past year, on which the contributions were paid. So it remains to be done. And it will take place next time, so that widows' pensions can also be issued in a way that the National Statistical Office will indicate us, in order to have an accurate valuation, a correct assessment of the relationship between the pension and the contributions paid during the life of each insured person. Therefore, all that is said, as well as the one that was a central issue of the days, that retired persons from September 2015 until 12 May 2016 will not receive the minimum pension or the national pension is a provision that emerged from No.4337. A provision which provided for reductions in the pensions of those who prematurely left working life, i.e. before the age limit was reached. For them, there is indeed a 6% reduction for every year in five years - that means 30% - plus 10% more, as this law stipulates. What is really a problem, which we do not want to remain as a problem, we have provided for in Law No.4387, which has followed the law that you also supported and voted and will correct this problem. Because by recalculating pensions we will have a absorption of this deficit, this reduction, through the new method of calculating insurance benefits after the adoption, I repeat, of the relevant decision by the National Statistical Office. Here we will be, all of this will be confirmed, as will the practice of dealing with the problems arising from the loss of the CSR. We have taken measures which to some extent restrict this problem. For 2017, we are dealing with practical solutions, so that there are no drastic consequences for this world which, in fact, needs support. But that support didn't exist because the system suffered. A system that provided for its birth to cover the distance that existed with average income, low pensions, which were far from average income. That rule couldn't work anymore. And what had to be done is to increase the minimum pensions. It never happened in the past. The new system creates conditions for increasing minimum pensions and this is a fair distribution, fair redistribution, fair return on terms of equal treatment of pension benefits to all Greeks. This will, of course, work over time. We will be here to see this effect again, just as we will see for farmers and for free-traders, whose results, in terms of yields of contributions, are not what they are heard, because they are linked to net income which they say by deducting the profit of contributions from this income. Therefore, it remains to be seen another conversation that we are going to have in 2017, to see exactly how things have on the real facts and not on the speculation that each time they are presented in some media. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the interventions of the Parliamentary Representatives, with Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the question of the Democratic Association for the deadlock to which the country's insurance and pension system is guided, and we obviously need to recall that the Government of SYRIZANEL, instead of the Thessaloniki programme, instead of the parallel programme and all the others that it promised, the third pension, etc., has brought us the third inappropriate memorandum with the sole responsibility of Mr Tsipras and his government as a whole - rather than a black sheep Varoufakis, as they are all attempting to do - with all the negative consequences of this memorandum. The Minister failed to mention his achievements: 360 basics made it 346. The 486 minimum pension made it 392. Don't renounce Mr. Haikalis. He's the man who instituted the underpaid wages, following Mrs Katseli, of course. Pick and take. Is he with you or isn't he? It is a mistake to me that Mr. Constantinople made and I will make it publicly conducive to him. Mr. Tsipras won't put you in his government because you're a good liar. You are the modern representative of SYRIZA's political fraud. And that's an honorable title for SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u136	I'm honored to hear it from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u137	It is an honorable title for SYRIZA, because you have actually come to things with a political deceit, promising everything, of course, based on the good course that the country has had, that you will be able to implement some of them, but you have not predicted that you yourself would rule, the destroyers. Because the good course until 2014, dealing with the causes of the crisis, you turned it into a crisis because of a misguided policy, because of your choices. And it is really us, the PASOK, who is entitled to speak, because before PASOK, Mr Katrugale, there was no social state. PASOK supported and created the social state, with mistakes, omissions, possibly with simplicity, but PASOK created it. And because you have in the political planning now, Mr. Kotsaka in the political secretariat, I must remind you that he was the State Secretary for Labour, the counterpart of Mr. Petropoulos, and that is why you should address Mr. Kotsaka, Mr. Kourublis, Mr. Bolaris, Mr. Parastatides and the others you have in the government and yourself. I must remind the House that I met you when you were waiting for a minister to appoint you to the "VOCATIONAL TRAINING S.A." Do you remember that, Mr. Catrugale? It has therefore appointed you to the S.A. "TRAINING TRAINING" and with all others you must apologise for what you have accused of.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u139	And I come to all of what you said about cuts and creative accounting, which you asked the agency to make. Listen, the entire Greek people know that due to specific situations, created since 2000 and mainly 2004 and 2009, the country entered a period of major deficits, of the order of 36 billion, 24 billion primary. And in those years the sacrifices of the Greek people have actually taken place, because we arrived in 2013 and 2014 to close the primary deficits. Then, then, sacrifices caught a place and closed deficits. Now, the extra cuts you make, adopting the previous ones, why are they being made? But only to cover your policy deficit. You, the 'no' of the referendum, have interpreted it properly and proceeded on the basis of measures: No, they do not go far enough. We need to get extra. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There's got to be extra. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Additional taxes must be imposed. Yes, except that all this extra burden is done over a period of primary surpluses and is done due to a policy deficit. You have a policy deficit, gentlemen. The economic recovery that was possible, because it had already begun since 2014, could have yielded national resources so that there is no negative measure in the direction that you have taken, be it pensions, wages, or everything. So you cannot come here today without justifying why you have not restored yourself, since the previous reductions have been made. After the previous reductions have been made, why didn't you just get in here and make extra? You did not justify that. So you were right about that? You don't even justify your own reductions, how can you justify the adoption of others? We have a rhetoric, which has been developed in the past by you personally, but overall by the government, and which is allegedly about the reform you have made in the insurance sector and which was necessary because pensions could not be paid. Are you serious? The reform was agreed with the other parties, it was the implementation from 1-1-2015 of Law 3863, it was the positive growth rate and the new wealth that the country would produce, which would support this insurance and certainly there was no Tsipra's signature to cut 3.1 billion. In addition to 1.8%, the total of the measures is 3.1 billion signed by Mr Tsipras. That is why the new measures have been imposed, and that is why you are supposed to put the 'capture' reform. As I told you at the IKA conference, it is a Memorandum "Katrugalos structure", because you have urged and proposed the cuts. They didn't ask you. You have proposed the cuts, you have imposed these measures under the agreement. We therefore have a reform of falsification, which is not fair and has no sustainability. It's not fair, because it loads all burdens on middle-income and relieves the rich. No rich man no longer pays a contribution, more than 70 thousand. And you went to cover this, saying you're a "apostate" of the rich, because you're rich and you've had that possibility since you were young. Not at all. You protected them, absolutely. Over 70 thousand don't pay a single euro. But medium-sized incomes, in order to be able to pay for the great insurance contributions you have put in, there must be a good economic climate. When you do not have a policy on the economic climate, that does not exist. Insurance, of course, is a matter of system, organisation and internal management and of overall philosophy and perception. But it also depends on the economic environment in which it operates. You've failed both. And by the nature and structure of this system too, the economic environment that you have created is completely negative. ‘The 2014 situation hopes to come back in 2018’. This is the intervention the SYRIZA government has made. This "good" brought to the place. Let us see, then, concrete evidence of what you supported and what has to be done at least now. First of all, let us say that the government and Mr Petropoulos, who have not issued the Curriculum for widow's pensions for six months, cannot guarantee that the single body will operate in two months' time. He can't guarantee it. No matter how good we are, we can't believe it, dear Undersecretary. It can't be done. The circular that the Minister told Papadakis that it was issued in September was not yet published. We are proposing, even now, that you see by legislation, which we will support, the operation of three funds, as we have said from the outset, which is really much easier to adapt, on the basis of the IKA, the employees, on the basis of the OSCE and the other funds, to free professionals and the OGA. Think it over. In the way that you have led us, a solution can be given, at least on this particular subject. Action must be taken immediately to remedy injustices. Mrs Gerovazis in that North Korean message, which came out of the night of the decision of the Council of State, said that the Council of State only deals with permits and channels and does not deal with the people. Wholesale lie. Let me remind you that there is a decision by the Council of State 2287 concerning reductions in the previous period. They weren't on your term of office, but the previous period. So you're a little liberated, too. These reductions should be included in a programming to restore them. The decision of the Council of State must be respected. Take a timeline and say, in your view, how they should be restored. Of course, it must be taken into account immediately - because that is the political fraud - the recalculation of supplementary pensions. Listen to what you've done and if you don't know it, ask your partners. So in the recalculation of supplementary pensions you have not taken into account the decision of the Council of State. So you've earned 30% lower supplementary pensions. On the other hand, when it was a question of calculating withholdings, you calculated them on the original pension. So instead of paying 3% or 7% depending on the category, it comes to pay 18% withholding for a pension that it does not receive. I have too many complaints. It needs to be restored. So, Minister and Minister, instead of coming here to tell us a number of things, see what I'm telling you. Temporary pension: Give up to EUR 190. The calculation based on L.3996 must be restored. You've set a clause of sixty-seven years for the minimum wage. Why? It's the circular and decision Haikalis. Let's see the matters relating to widow's pensions directly. Insurance contributions: If there is no divergence in high insurance contributions - and I have been speaking since 2017 - there will be huge issues. Look, for the villages, don't play the priest. The transitional regime is known, but ends in 2018. There must be a special regime - that is what we say - for the villages under a thousand inhabitants, if not two thousand, which will be linked to a local development policy. In that sense, we call on you to see it. We have tabled a specific proposal. The young people, whom you have said a lot and you have given them a transitional period, have seen after a few days take them back and make them clear about health. Is it possible that you've stolen the twelfth pension and told us about theft? You stole the twelfth pension by switching the date from one month to the other. Look, by 31-12-2016 you must have paid 12 pensions, not eleven. Twelve, not eleven!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Kegeroglu, let's be brief, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u141	I conclude with three proposals. You must restore the injustice that is taking place. It may have been the previous period, but it was not to a large extent. Now these people are starting to be retired, while they are paying contributions for the thirteenth and fourteenth wages when they are employed, these contributions are not counted. You should also see the subject of overtime. Consider the proposal to delete overtime, etc. With regard to the sustainability of the insurance system - and I am closing - we should see the serious proposals that we have tabled. First of all, there is a need for sustainable regulation, which has multiple options, including those in place, not abolition or replacement, but enlargement. Because there really are these proposals. I'll tell you in dentistry in particular. To finally implement the employment clause in all actions, programmes, development laws to have in and from targeted insurance contributions the performance of greater receipts for the funds. Let's see how we make use of some of the public property. The proposal has already been made. 25% of the value of public property, that is half of what is intended to go for growth, is not contrary to the partners agreed, to go to support the insurance system. It is development too, because it will not be cut off from other resources. Look at these proposals and the others that we will then be tabling, on the one hand, to alleviate the injustices which you have done or which we have done and, on the other hand, to strengthen the sustainability of the insurance system. But to God, don't come here and high and rise and tell us that you're reforming. A management of the joke has made problems that you have not solved, instead you have raised them. We wish you were in the new government and you were in the same ministry so you wouldn't have the alibi that Mr. Tsipras wouldn't let you finish your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Before moving to the next parliamentary representative, the Minister asked for the floor on staff. Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u143	I am obviously not taking the floor for the insults of a fraud and a liar, because they always depend and are judged by the man who makes them. That is why I did not reply to Mr Constantinople. Evidently when you're told by liars and fraudsters, deceit is completely reversed. I'm only taking the floor for the even worse charge that I was PASOK. Because Mr. Kegeroglu says...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u144	You weren't. You were sculptured, and we put you on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Kegeroglu, please don't interrupt. You'll ask for the floor. You won't interrupt the Minister. You want the floor? You should ask him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u146	Yeah, I want to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u147	No, you don't deserve him now. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u148	You should ask the speaker if he accepts the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u149	I don't ask anyone. If you want the floor, ask him. Here we are and you'll see whether or not we'll give it to you. I don't think you have any complaints so far. Well, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u150	The Rules allow holidays to be exchanged, but not insulting. But that's where you're going. I don't think you can do more. On this subject. Indeed, I was the president of a public company, a subsidiary of the OAED, "Vocational Training S.A.". As an exception, therefore, this position was not only a competitive one, but the committee it judged was a tripartite one, representatives of workers, employers and OAS. At that time I was the mediator and referee of the OAED and had a general acceptance from both sides. Well, it was oddly done that an appointment had not been rheumatological in your own governance. But when rushphetti is your religion, you can never arrest anything like that. That is why I spoke earlier about this customer and patronage regime.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u151	We continue with the next parliamentary representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u153	What do you want, Mr. Kegeroglu? Do you want to answer that? Are you asking for a personal reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u154	Let me remind you that I didn't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u155	Because you have the opportunity as a parliamentary representative and secondary then and then to reply if you wish to the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u156	No, we're clarifying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u157	Good. You have a minute, Mr. Kegeroglu, strictly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u158	I have addressed Mr Katrugalos, the Minister, and I said that Mr Katrugalos is a worthy representative of the political fraud. I didn't mention any financial deceit or others. Although there may be a debate on this, I did not mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u159	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u160	Look, I didn't mention it, I say. I am not concerned with this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u161	But do you know things?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u162	No, no. I said I was referring to politics. I have, for example, brought you to the Prime Minister to be appointed to "Vocational Training". Now, of course you can't be PASOK with what you're expressing. Of course you can't be! But in politics, we are entitled. For example, I brought you here one day a report and delivered it - I do not know if it was you or Mr Petropoulos - which you have done as a legal officer on a matter and as Minister you have done exactly the opposite. Isn't that a political fraud?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Kegeroglu, okay. I think mutual clarifications have been given...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u164	Is it not a political delusion that even the day before yesterday you said "I have not reduced pensions" and people go and get faint, and even in Larissa we have also had death, have they just reflected the information from the ATM? This is political fraud. I didn't talk about anything else. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, on personal occasions!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. On the basis of the order of the Parliamentary Representatives, Mr Mandas will be followed by Mr Mandas, who also asked with the consent of the others...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, on personal grounds, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u168	Wait. Wait! Oh, boy! Mercy! Mr Mandais has asked for a final place in the series of parliamentary representatives and with the consent of the others - I think - there is no problem. We shall therefore continue with the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi. Before, however, Mr Brutsi asked for the floor. On staff, Mr. Constantinople?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Minister mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u170	First of all, tell us what the staff consists of.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u171	The Minister referred to me and said I was a crook. I have to tell the Minister that we will be judged by the citizens who are a political fraudster. Everyone knows that. But because he said about PASOK, I'm interested in this politician. When...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u172	I'm sorry, you've been asking for the floor for a personal reason. Where's the staff? Where's the staff in front of you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u173	Your staff said...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u174	Has something been said personally in your name? For you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u175	Of course, for me. I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u176	I would also ask you, and I ask you, on behalf of the staff who have asked for the floor, to explain the reason for the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u177	Let me tell you. I told you he was mentioned and said I was a deceiver by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u178	To you personally?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u179	Oh, of course. I tell you, people know that very well, who is a political fraudster. There's no matter. However, because he referred to the political issue concerning PASOK, I would like to say to Mr Katrugalos - because we all know each other and understand the world, because Mr Katrugalos goes where power and money is, is known for 12% - when Mr Reppas in PASOK appointed him, in the good years, President at the 'CARTON S.A.'. Mr. Katrugalos will remember from then on for those forty years that he said they destroyed the country, when he was at the "KATTY S.A." with the signature of Mr. Reppa and had a contract in recent years with the Ministry of Education. Nothing else. Citizens know and they'll give the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u180	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u181	Mr Ministers, representatives of the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour, I will not mention the relationships you had with PASOK and the dealings, I will go straight to the point. If he theoretically saw us today a large part of the Greek society or those who see us, what do you really think would indicate that there would be a survey of what you said from the Step of the House? If they believe you or not, what would be the answer? The answer would be: 'No, we do not believe them, they are unreliable'. I'm not using the word "fakes," that is registered in the DNA of SYRIZA and the entire government. You are my successors to a ministry, which is a high-ranking ministry, which has taken difficult steps, which has put too many things into order and housekeeping with many difficulties. But I wonder, Mr President-in-Office - and I refer to both of you - whether you ever feel the need to say a public apologies if you have remorse or guilt within you about what you said in the election and continue to say to this day. Why don't you think it's just the indignation of the world. Do not think the thousands of retired people who were yesterday under the Ministry of Labour burned the letters you sent, Minister. It's no accident. You're causing them! You challenge them daily with your lies wherever you are, from the House to TV, when you tell them that pensions have not been reduced. So I can assure you - and all pensioners and workers know - that there is not even a pensioner of 2.6 million current pensioners who have not lost part of his pension, another larger, other than in 2015. It has also done so with your perception of democracy and transparency. Look. I've given you several times. The Greek people know that. In 2013 we achieved the greatest reform in the insurance system. The honorable executives behind you know that. We won the "monitor" pensions, we radiated the insurance system and the entire Greek society knew what was happening every week, every month, every month. This is the ‘ELIOS’ issue, which was published in July 2015. The next day, SYRIZA's decreases began and stopped surrendering. I'm filing it as a collector, which you'll be sure will come back soon when you leave the government. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above issue, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The people have identified you, Mr. Katrugale, with the man who as part of SYRIZA you were the leader of the "Indignant" movement in Syntagma Square. Not only that, you supported views on reinstatement of pensions, reintroduction of one-off, reintroducing subsidiary, increases in wages and pensions. There he has identified you, leader of the "Indignant" who, along with Kammenos, was in the Syntagma square every day and stoned Parliament. Today you have the luck of having to face the Civic Opposition and not the Syntagma Square. He has you identified with the Minister, who in another capacity has constantly made decisions in the capacity of the lawyer who overthrows the decisions in the Ministry of Labour. It was said just before and by Mr Kegeroglu. There are dozens of your decisions to overthrow labour and insurance data, which, of course, as Minister, you do not do. He also has you identified with the Minister, who, in an earlier capacity as SYRIZA executive, was posting under the Ministry of Labour and Syntagma Square and the Ministry of Finance with the well-known unacceptable poster who told the world and urged citizens not to pay until they collapse. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] That is, you, as a Syrian, challenged and told the world not to pay its insurance contributions. That's why people don't believe you, Mr. Petersburg and Mr. Katrugale. That's why you're unreliable and you can't convince anyone. But now I want to get to the point of the matter, which is about its insurance and its course. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in the unpleasant position of informing the Greek people that insurance is in the air and that any sacrifices made in the sense of pension cuts since 2014 have gone missing - have gone missing! - Because they were unfair and uncomfortable. It would be a good thing if you presented the information you ask of the Office, to ask for this as well here. It is the Greek State's only proportionate study of insurance. There's no one else. Measured Law 3863/2010 from 01-01-2015, which would apply, and on the basis of the financial model we had established, it met the conditions for viability. What did you do? You threw the economy on the rocks, the banks closed, you followed the Varoufakis policy - all together, all SYRIZA - and the 310 million e-mail Hardouvelis did it 3.1 billion. This is what pensioners and workers are paying today, both being affected by both tax reductions and tax reductions. I am presenting for the second time, after the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, the only proportionate study, which is signed by the institutions, which you have previously called troika. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned analogy study, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The loss of GDP was EUR 21 billion, EUR 9 billion the measures, 3.1 billion were lost by the country's insurance system. The question arises as follows: What will happen from now on? Are we done? People know that they're waiting for additional reductions. They are recorded in the draft budget, which has turned it back to you and will come back corrected. Incredible things! Apart from the laws you vote for, it is the first time in the Greek Parliament that draft law is returned back to a Greek government. You will change the budget figures and the costs of the social budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the suspicion and unfortunately - I hope I will be disproved - that there is a secret government agenda. The government's secret agenda is about preparing public opinion to grant in the context of the negotiations - which are not negotiations, it is a white towel - the 'personal difference' which it has created on this point. The "personal difference" will equate young pensioners to current pensioners, with a 20% loss on basic pensions. This is the government's secret agenda, and I think it will be because today Mr Katrugalos brought us and submitted us just before the study on the government budget deficit and GDP participation in the pension system. We know. Why did he do it? It prepares public opinion under the number of 9.27% of 2015, which, Mr Katrugale - and that is what the SYRIZA Members must know to learn to negotiate - is what has been solved. We as a government - and the previous one - agreed with the institutions a single thing - one! - and that was where the national negotiating line was drawn up, which you took back: we agreed the 2009 expenditure plus 2.5% of GDP not to go through until 2060, 2.5%. The study we submitted before fulfilling the sustainability conditions. We did it. What did you do? You should have kept that line. Instead, you presented the deficit to us, as if you were showing abroad that, "Here we have 9.27%..." - that's what you're doing - "... come and get it through the "personal difference".
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Brutsi, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u183	I shall conclude, Mr President. I believe you have a secret agenda, which our country's pensioners will soon see. Thank you very much, Mr President. I just want to say once again that a pity again! The sacrifices of the Greek people, workers and pensioners went missing. I am afraid that since this month, in October, the revenues on the insurance funds and the performance of 'ERGANIS' - I remember you called it 'Brutsi' and did not admit it when it came to positive results - the most innovative tool that exists in Europe will perhaps show the worst performance in the month - this is my information from all over Greece - on the level of redundancies, a sample that you even reversed the graduation of unemployment, which at the end of 2016 we had planned to close at 19.5%. I close with another 'historical' success, of course: you managed as a government to do something that has never been done in history, to reverse the mixture of full-time in relation to forms of part-time and flexible employment. In 2015 and 2016 historically the big overthrow took place. This is something that is at the expense of workers, at the expense of the unemployed, at the expense of the insurance funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u184	Mr Dimitrios Koukoutsis, on behalf of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. I won't answer, so I'd like all the time now. I would like to inform the House that this morning there was an attack by the Greek Police at a gathering of Greek citizens in the Botanic where the mosque is to take place. Thousands of illegal mosques, thousands of occupations, but the Greek police there found it intervening. Let us hope that the God of the Greeks will resolve this problem at some point, because that is the only reason for this people's fate, which seems to be the case for some. Unfortunately, everyone knew. In 1987 in the magazine "NPQ" Andreas Papandreou had interviewed the current situation. Mr Mitsotakis did so in 1994 in the Chamber of the Hellenic Parliament. These are circulating online. Mr. Sioufas, Mr. Spraus, Mr. Giannitsis, Mr. Reppas, Mrs. Petralia, Mr. Loverdos, so far all of them have'slept' to save us! That was the main point of agreement between all of them so far. I mean PASOK and New Democracy. You know what he said to you, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK and the New Democracy, the River, etc. And so forth, the democratic arch today, Mr Katrugalos, Immediately? "Don't talk. We signed them together in 2015.’ I'm glad to hear that. That's right, he said it. So now Mr Katrugalos has come and instead of the abolition of the reinsurance laws, which SYRIZA had made her flag pre-electionally, not only has maintained them, but has abolished the minimum pension of EUR 486, with the result that even someone with full pension and heavy, with six thousand alcohols, will receive a full pension of EUR 350! In fact, according to the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, losses from the cuts in pensionable old people and young people amount to EUR 6,016 billion. Only cuts in supplementary pensions in four years will exceed EUR 1 billion, while cuts in civil servants' dividends will exceed EUR 800 million. Of course, Mr Katrugalos is slightly differentiated because he is left-wing or rather - in his statement - a communist. A communist Mr Katrugalos, who avoids telling us to our faces, 'we are to blame', but avoids and tells us who is to blame after all. New Democracy, PASOK, governance will tell us until now, etc. Names. In this country, at last, we have to name names. He, he, they stole, did, skinned the Greek people. At last, we can't talk in the air. Anyway, he is now sacrificed to save us. Of course, he agrees with the previous ones that the cost of this salvation will be paid by us, the citizens, whether it is our fault or not. But there are still people - and I address the Greek people - who believe and believe you. That's unbelievable. They told us that the system needs correction because it is, he says, unfair. Can't, they say, someone else gets a pension of 1,500 euros and another 500 euros and 300 euros. That's right, we agree. But why should the elimination, the equation of inequalities take place downwards? Some have worked for too many years and managed to fight, with sacrifices to achieve something. Why bring others down in this position? It is fair to raise the pension of EUR 400 and 500 to EUR 1,500, taken by some others, and not to swallow them all together. In addition to the new method of calculating pension earnings, there is now a very low rate of replacement for subsidiary companies. The replacement rate is 0.45% per year, and a zero deficit clause is actually applied. So, so far, with the current system, with four and a half thousand days of insurance and pension pay of 600 euros, a pensioner received an additional pension of 120 euros. Now, however, if we leave the same pensionable earnings, the subsidiary reaches 40 euros, which is reduced by 70%. It is well known that for the weakest finances received by CSR, main and subsidiary, as a total amount, it was 720 euros, and today, with 15 years and 600 euros totalling, from main and subsidiary, it will reach a maximum of 450 to 455 euros. We have also been told that in order to be sustainable the system must have a ratio of 1 to 4, and the ratio today is 1 to 1,7, with a trend even lower. We therefore need to take drastic measures, because otherwise the system will collapse. Sounds reasonable. Yes, but what serious analogy study has drawn these conclusions, which are served by all of us with a style of cardinals and scientists? As far as we know this 1 to 4 is concerned, it is the finding of a proportionate study that has been compiled in the Papagos era for sixty-five years to seventy years. It was based on the data of that time. The data say that, at the time, the contributions, for example in IKA, amounted to 12.5%, and today more than 44% and 50% are heavy. With this in mind, the current rate of 1 to 1,7- which, if we want to believe it, is better than 1 to 4 in 1953. Let us take care of another - let us say this very seriously - the miserable journalists we are seeing from time to time in the media. They address their findings to those who, with more than ten thousand letters, get 700 and 800 euros pensions, as if they were told that for their unacceptablely low pensions, some parasites are to blame. So they turn the pensioners of the pentacosarius against those of the grand to prevent the coalition of both against the state, the truly responsible. But how is it possible in this country for the "calls" of the Treasury to find the last chop to bind him a five-eight-dollar account because he did not pay HNPH for his countryside? How is it that all of you can't even find a circuit that is bleaking public funds and obliging them to pay? What glamor has so far paid the consequences for the catalyst of the insurance funds? It has increased the life expectancy and we must therefore work more to ensure that the insurance funds are not charged. It's like we've been saying all the years I've lived, I've got to work with them. He who thought that if he was going to live a little longer, he'd live a little better, didn't realize he had to live for work. You invite the workers to make sacrifices. It is your fault that the balances between workers and pensioners have changed. It's your fault the life expectancy that's growing. It's your global crisis. It's all your fault, etc. It's not your fault. This is all misery and lies. Even if there was not a single young worker to pay insurance contributions, the insurance funds should be able to pay the pensions, because the pensioners have already paid the money they receive. Thirty-five years paid contributions to earn on average seven years of pension, according to the life expectancy, the limit recently discovered by the state chickens. For each of them twenty - eight years contributions are evaporated in favor of faith and paris. The 13th, the 14th pension for people who paid a life the most expensive contributions in Europe to get EUR 500 crumbs in order to survive on Europe's most expensive market, because we are the most expensive market. This cut is not only immoral, it's illegal. Because all of the evil think that the state is a donor to the funds and as a funder must regulate its financing under the terms of the IMF. The state is not a donor to the funds, but a debtor of the funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u187	Immediately, Mr President. Greek pensioners who today appear as "parasites" living at the expense of workers have paid so much money that they could have insurance funds that would give pensions to all future generations. This pathogen, of course, the Greek citizens are well aware of it. Corruption, sub-productivity, economic malfunction, scandals, supplies, etc. We've lived all on our side. The state capital was a refuge for the useless, lazy, stupid and thieves. State capital became a piece of dogs party. With such public capital workers, all these phenomena were inevitable. For decades the state has literally been stealing the funds' reserves. In the private sector workers' pockets he put his hands on both to develop public capital - and therefore, to strengthen his own power - and to subscribe the best friends, the intertwined entrepreneurs, so that some party rulers do not lose contact with power.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, I want a minute. I'm not gonna take my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u190	But you don't have any dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u191	Oh, don't I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u192	You don't, like all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u193	Please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u194	Okay, I'm so sorry. I'll be right over. With money from the workers' insurance funds, the public property was acquired or developed. With money from the insurance funds of the weak, they represented the powerful and tyrants of all kinds. With loan and unscrupulously in IKA, OTE, PPC, ELPE. Thieves politicians promised workers growth and they received money from their funds, but without even giving these funds a small part of the ownership of their capital through this money. The sovereign people will decide on the policies of all of us. It'll be hit on the back again by politicians. He'll be sliding in again to vote for those who work for him as a little gambler. And he's waiting for Alexakis, Coulis, Lakis, Boulis, and all the fake lightning smiles. And by addressing the Greek people, I say to him: "Finally, you have to decide yourself for your own luck." Thank you very much, Mr President, and forgive me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to give some thought to the development of the debate. They are still five parliamentary representatives to speak, and my colleague Mr Kegeroglou will speak in a second language. It is still two of the honourable Members, both ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u196	Two Ministers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u197	They'll probably split the time, Mr. Kegeroglu. We have reached agreement with the Ministers. I have the mandate of the President's Office to complete the debate at 14.30 p.m. We must take care of the time, ladies and gentlemen. The six-minute period to be seven, but with eleven and a half minutes you realize it won't be possible to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u198	We'll be done, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u199	Mr Katsotis from the JRC has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u200	Gentlemen, you are all behind the great chill in the life of retired, employed, self-employed, farmers, young people, women. Yesterday and yesterday, Minister, in the largest cities in the country, the pensioners returned your letters with massive rally and with the renewal of their racing meetings. They filed their own letter. We are tabling one for the Minutes, for the record, so that we do not forget each other. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They expressed their anger, their indignation for the great robbery of their pensions, for the great theft. The people tell us that the liar and the thief in the first year are happy. Then comes the revelation, the mocking, and, finally, the condemnation. As a JRC from the first moment you presented your proposal for insurance, we called it a law - looting. We revealed the misleading arguments and warned that the world will take you back, expressing their protests and their condemnation. From the first moment we revealed the Syrian alchemys, the Syrian mathematics, with which you presented that pensions are not only affected, but the lower ones will also increase. You have presented the abolition of the CSCE as a result of a bad compromise and, as you have already said, you have reminded us that others voted with you and that you would restore injustice by the so-called 'national pension'. The beneficiary of the EKT was who had a pension of EUR 460 and took 230 as a beneficiary. What are you talking about? Of the 690 euros then taken by the low-retired person, it will now take 345 euros. And he must be happy! Therefore, the justice you say there is for low-pensioners will be the big difference of EUR 690 from the EUR 345 that you are guaranteeing. The development so far shows that you have made a decisive contribution to the scissors of pensions to the greater increase in the poverty of the populace. Many today are in front of first home auctions and many of them are retired. Really, Minister, what do you say to a pensioner who has submitted for normal old age pension with five thousand six hundred days of insurance and has been retired at the beginning of EUR 410, after the various reductions of EUR 330, and now, this month, he received a pension of EUR 262? What do you say to this retired person, who's a low-pensionist? Tell me what your point is. What is the argument on the basis of which you said that lower pensions are not affected? In fact, what do you respond to all those figures that retirees make public every day, with the reductions of up to 75%? What do you respond to what is revealed in the case of widow's pensions, which in several cases will reach 150 euros? What are you responding to the data provided by the Federation of Workers in the IKA for those insurers who applied for retirement from 1-7-2015 to 12-5-2016, where neither the threshold applicable to the old system nor only the organic part of the pension is calculated, while, of course, the national pension is not paid, leading to losses of up to 53% depending on the years of insurance. What are you responding to the evidence that with four thousand days of insurance in this case of pensioners, in the fifth insurance class of IKA, a pension of EUR 270,81 is due instead of EUR 486,84? What do you say to these retired people? What do you say to those who with six thousand seven hundred days of insurance, in the eleventh insurance class, in the case of a reduced pension, with the extra penalty you impose, are a pension of EUR 285.9 instead of EUR 405,77? Also, in the reduced pension of the mother with a minor child, with five and a half thousand insurance days in the eighth insurance category, it falls to EUR 236,59 instead of EUR 508,88. What do you answer the details of the PDO IKA that there are several main pensions outstanding? Sixty thousand four hundred ninety three, say the figures and sixty thousand supplementary pensions? It is certain that you will attempt - as you did in your prototype - once again to present the black, white. But you know you can't convince anyone anymore. But, let's see, gentlemen, PASOK and New Democracy, why are you complaining about the pension towel? You really don't know anything about the murder? Aren't you physicists too, but also moral perpetrators? How many laws did you and me? How many reductions did you make? With your decisions, no more than 100 billion reserves have been lost? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, and me. Social security has been posted and will continue to be set up. Pensioners and insured persons are generally sacrificed to serve the objective of capital, competitiveness and the development of the profitability of local and foreign. It is precisely to call for the viability of the insurance company to hide this single strategy of the parties to the capital. It turns out what the JRC stresses, namely that insurance is primarily a political and a class issue. All together you have accepted the stable, uniform and lasting objective of BSE, the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, regardless of your opposition and division. The aim is to exempt capital and state, facilitate and create favourable conditions for new areas of profitability of private groups through professional funds. Of course, you want to quickly get rid of or reduce the state budget from social security expenditure to a minimum, so that monopolistic and business groups are even more sceptical. No sustainability of social security can be guaranteed under conditions of sovereignty or dictatorship of monopolies. Their needs level everything. Invoking the proportion of retired workers is compulsory. Give work to a million and a half unemployed and the ratio will change immediately. But you cannot, because business groups are in charge. Give full rights to the unemployed and resources will increase. You can't because the profitability of business is being reversed. Obligate employers to pay contributions and the situation will be improved. You show tolerance because you support the direction of reducing the so-called 'non-wage costs' and the exemption of employers, which characterises your own policy. Stop playing the workers' contributions to gambling for the needs of capital and no resources will be lost. However, this is also outside the functioning of the market freedom system. That's why you can't do it. So all we say is that you cannot do it because it requires roots and conflicts with the capital, the European Union and the barbaric system you are serving. The insurance will always remain open, as in all wages, profit and profit relationships are reflected. There are also new reductions in the recalculation of pensions, by applying the personal difference, the activation of the automatic cutter, the zero deficit clauses, the arrangements already required by the lenders' representatives. There will be new insurance contributions with increases - fire for farmers and the self-employed. It is a one-way for the working class and the populace layers to create developments for their benefit. This can only be done through their massive, universal participation in the struggles, with requests that will satisfy their needs and objectively reverse your policy, your choices to support monopolistic groups. Symposia with the JRC is the one that the working class and the majority of the people must choose, because behind every conquest there is the uninterrupted and uninterrupted sacrifices of the members and members of the JRC. At the same time, behind every suffering, there are all these powers which serve their capital and needs, sacrificing every need for the people. We call on all workers in each state and every business to make their own case the strikes of next time in the public sector, but also in the private sector, and to massively mitigate the new attack that is being organised and includes what remains of labour and insurance rights. The findings of the so-called "woes", the European acquis, the joint declaration of the so-called "social partners", all these arguments the working class needs to throw them into the trash because they are on the same line of underprivileged wages, the subordinate rights, the subordinate life for the workers and the people. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mr Konstantinos Barriotas from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, you are charging me time in advance and I will demand it at the end. I won't say much about topicality, even though temptation is great these days. I think that as far as the National Broadcasting Council is concerned, the designation 'North Korean' of the general way in which the government handled it - Mr Kegeroglu said it - is now saying it all. I'm not going to say reform. I'll just say it seems to be a very small lifesaving now for an upcoming debacle. But these two - and forgive me, but I also forget the interview of the Archbishop, the Makariot - as communication tricks to cover part of the fact that the pensioners in these days were on the streets and that the reductions in supplementary pensions which, according to some calculations, now reach cumulatively within the crisis of up to 82% have been completed. In any case, Minister, I have heard you attack the previous ones very seriously. I would agree with you if you blamed them for not having completed a sustainable insurance reform before you took over, and left it in the middle. I'd understand if you'd protest, because you actually had to go on with it. And I would understand that if I had not forgotten, as the rest of the Greek people have not forgotten, that as a government, and you yourself personally, have played a decisive and also a violent role in preventing reforms, promising to date the recovery of pensions at the level of 2009. In the crisis and until last summer the slogan was no extension to insurance, no pension cut, no increase in insurance contributions. It had to come that very difficult evening of the discussion of the memorandum, when the Prime Minister from this step with great naiveness, I would say, a fascist, might have wondered for the first time on behalf of your party and your resignation: "But who doubts that the insurance does not come out and needs reform?" The answer is you. You doubted it. We all understood that it was a bomb, which has been evolving since long ago, since 1999, that we had understood some people when you, together with four fifths of the political world, were on the way against the first small attempts to regulate. Thus, on tomorrow's admission, the Prime Minister rushed to draw up red lines. I don't know if the red lines remind you of anything? There was a period when the red lines were very fashionable. Then they became pink and then they disappeared. He also said: 'No, in the cuts'. Then one understood - someone apparently told him - that the property has not yet been discovered and said: 'In any case, not in the cuts in the main pensions, but we will be a little hurt for the subsidiary'. He then admitted that this concerns not all ancillary services, but some, below a limit. You have finally brought an insurance policy which cuts the pensions that are due to be issued unnecessarily, cuts the pensions of people who currently pay contributions. This is outrageous indeed, because it is called on the insured today to pay higher contributions for more years, to receive less pension, just to support a system, which we will see along the way if it can be supported. But, in any case, that is a criticism. You know, the main question of people who retire today is not whether you will cut them EUR 10 or EUR 15. The real anxiety for a long time, and within this government, the insured, the pensioners and the future pensioners, is another one: even though these cuts are the last? Is that the 50th cut yesterday gonna be the last one? Is the insurance of Katrugalo sustainable? That is the question that concerns everyone, not only at political level, but also at everyday level. Greeks have realised that pension is difficult and does not come out and that cuts, as one point, were inevitable. So the question that has been going on in the debate since 1999 is as follows: Is insurance sustainable? Mr. Petropoulos has formerly rushed to say yes. Let me read what the Parliamentary Budget Office says in the last quarter's report: 'In conclusion, the pension system remains unsustainable, despite the fiscal adjustment of EUR 3.5 billion by 2019. Reductions in pensions are great, as are the increases in contributions, which we believe are difficult to meet. The collection of the funds will be irreparable.' In this question it says no to Parliament's Budget Office. Not most technocrats, independents and academics, who have a deep knowledge of insurance. It says so, badly, International Monetary Fund. Apart from the acronyms I am ready to hear, namely that the Parliament's Budget Office is identical to the International Monetary Fund, I think that just too many people - apart from you all - in fact, Mr Petropoule - are seeing that this insurance is not sustainable, it is not going to come out. I'm one of the people who probably disguised, because I thought he'd last till 2018. As far as the OAU's situation is concerned today, as it is at least mentioned in the reports, and the fact that you have already put a hand in October 2016 to the OAU, means that it will probably not last until 2018 and will require adjustments and cuts before. I wish I could go out a liar! We have said that in recent days it has been said that the deficit of the funds is enormous. Some people are talking about an unseen debt of 12 billion. I'm sure it's about 2 billion, and more than that IKA's debt, with which it's supposed to go, is in EKA. I already said about the OAU. The difficulty is known and it seems to be great. He's consumed the state grant. What he collects is more than half of what he needs to pay for pensions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And while it is a law which has basically not even started to apply to its entirety - the cut-off of the EMS is pending, at least part of it - the recalculation of the pensions in the new way is still pending, but will be done. The question is who will make him and how. It is also not complete to impose double insurance on workers or on self-employed persons. Nor are we talking about farmers. It's going to happen in 2017. So we're not done with the law and its application, which, no matter how good a man is, understand that he's extremely questionable. Remunerations for public administration, such as the unification of the funds in the ECA, and the recalculations of pensions of two and a half million insured pensioners within three months, are appalling in normal circumstances for the Greek State, and much more so for a government that is rather reluctant to complete them, or at least does not have the necessary staff and the necessary depth. So we're not done with the insurance, and it seems that sooner or later we'll have to revise it. Maybe Mr. Katrugalos is telling the truth about this time. She may not really open up in this quarter. He may not open up with you, but he will open! We said from the outset that the insurance you brought is a small extension for a bankrupt distribution system that is doomed from the outset. It has been condemned by the demographic and structural changes of the Greek economy long before we start talking about it and unemployment and recession in the crisis have actually ended. It's also unfair, but also unequal for the new generations. In fact, it's anachronistic. It is a redistributive system, one of what has been abandoned in many countries for the past twenty years, and here we are insisting on its support.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u204	You're right, Mr. President. I'll be done in a minute. Unfortunately, we and the Committee on Wise Men have only supported some academics - but we were the only ones in this Chamber - a three-pillar system, a system whose aim is to restore the balance and confidence of generations who pay for the insurance system, because you know very well that it does not exist today. Everyone thinks they won't be retired, so they have no desire to make contributions. And - you will allow me to express - we have tackled with nonsense the press that the three-pillar systems applied by Pinochet in Chile in the 1970s, so they are unacceptable. Unless Bismarck was a communist! I think the argument is what I said, that is funny. I think that the systems of this type and of this type must be reopened. It's important. We will have to do this again - the news report says, everyone says, says the Parliament's Budget Office - to discuss insurance. And this time whatever government is in 2018 or 2019 that this thing will collapse, we will have to find a solution that lasts longer than a government's expected survival. It must take at least a few decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr Barriotta. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor by the ANELs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know whether there is a single person in Parliament's Chamber who believes that if anything happened in insurance, in two years' time - a common confession of all economists - the system would not collapse. If this is an exaggeration, I expect to hear a credible argument. I would also like to say that in all the countries of the European Union the proportion of workers retired, for example in Denmark, is four to one, while in all the other countries the average is three to one. I mean, they work three and one of them retires. Where did this government find that ratio in January 2015? Is there anyone questioning it that the ratio was one by one, and unemployment was 27%? We mean that official unemployment was 27%, because a large part was hidden. It was not only one and a half million unemployed, it was two and a half million, a reality not cruel, but very hard, to the limits of the impossible. This situation was then found by the current government with three hundred thousand padlocks formalized. It also found itself below the poverty line over a million citizens. What exactly was that about? I don't like extreme expressions. He's doing the PASOK right thing and testifying his question, he has an indiscriminate right. Legally elected party is, so he judges, so he does. Can we just scrub up the recent memory? What do you call structured bonds? How the NAT fell apart. What's he telling you? Ask a navy how was the most powerful fund of people who drown in the sea? Ask again. Your indiscriminate right to believe that the PSI has benefited. You only believe it and I'm not sure if you all believe it. She literally blew up the insurance fund bank in the air. That's the reality the government found. No one triumphs, nor did we say that we solved the insurance problem. We fight it with nails and teeth and we fight it every day. I heard extreme expressions, very extremes. I heard Mr. Brutsi saying why we're not sorry. You respect Mr. Brutsi, when your party has borrowed 210 million and won't tell us how to return them, leave your apologies. At least from PASOK I heard the words 'political fraudsters'. It's an extreme phrase. Because we're in command, I think I'm a political fraud, too. I'm in an unpleasant position to remind you of some of the names of your party. Some of them are in prison, some of them are convicted and others are convicted. Let's not. The connections with the word 'deceitful' are specific, so little attention to the designations. I also want to say this, that I hear gods and demons messing with Katrugalo and Petropoulos every day. I'm a good-for-nothing person. I may be one of those who actually complained about those who lost the allowance and who were retired with very low pensions and I saw an instant reaction from the government for seven points. In fact, they quickly covered that injustice. But no one speaks because 80% of retired people have not been hurt at all. I keep hearing about supplementary pensions, which had indeed been announced for six months. Nobody's been hidden. The Minister and the State Secretary were very clear at that time. ‘To EUR 1,170 no one will be touched’. There's been an issue from morning to night, the TVs are spoiling, for adjustments that have nothing to do with this. In fact, some retired people who had more supplementary pensions have reduced them instead of losing it completely. I repeat: in two years' time many of them would not have received the supplementary pension or three hundred. Somebody come in and question that, because it's easy to yell. And I, when you've made eleven cuts to me, when you've deprived me of 55 billion dollars, and now you come and you cut 660, yeah, I'll protest for 660. Put them on the scale. What's bigger? The 45 billion he cut or the 650? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] How much time do I have, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u207	You have tolerance, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u208	I'll stop in eight minutes. I hear on TVs with the microphone in hand every day: "How much have they cut you off, what have they done?" and an unbelievable issue arises. It's a fresh example that the insurance is re-entering. It had to be an official announcement from the Diiselblum and Klaus Regling's office that he didn't get in. It is a fresh example that debt goes for 2018 and then. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The short-terms have already entered. The fluctuating becomes stable. There is an adjustment for 40 billion - I do not want to go into details - which will not even go through Parliament. The development is all predicted, the whole world, except for New Democracy and those who are blindly opposed. And I'm not talking about 2,7, I'm talking about 1.5. It is a pity to play with pensions. You played the pensions, and you failed. We inherited 27%, which wasn't 27%, it was 36%. Come in the position of a government whose half-citizens don't make contributions. What was he supposed to do? No, gentlemen. You're wrong. You're a big mistake. I don't want to talk to you again, to explain details. I believe that there has been a really great effort by this Minister and his State Secretary, an honest, laboring effort, with five televisions and five newspapers rampant against him from morning till night. I am really pleased about what was done in the insurance sector, and I believe, as Mr Petropoulos said, that very soon the farmers and many other people will see the difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mrs Theodora Megalo-Economics from the Centro Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current topical question we are discussing about the insurance system you have tabled is very important indeed. However, I cannot help wondering whether the interest is sincere on the part of the Democratic Integration, which has tabled this timely question, or whether this whole move is a pretext and serves micro-political interests in the end. In fact, I have the following question: does today's debate take place only for you, because people are watching us on television and there have been various issues and there is a lot of television there? Ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, are you really interested in insurance and pensions? Because if you were really interested, you would not cut pensions thirteen times when you ruled or rather when you colluded with New Democracy. Do you think we do not remember or remember the people who brought them into this situation with the rule of forty years? However, I also have the same point of view for SYRIZA, because two things may happen in the SYRIZA: they either knew that they could not bring back the thirteenth pension, and were lying just to understand the power, or they did not know and did their efforts, but unfortunately they failed miserably. They owe at least one great apologies to the Greek people. Instead, the situations that we have experienced in recent years in our country are unprecedented and shocking. Pensioners, who worked a lifetime hard, now live below the poverty line and year after year see their pensions evaporate. I would like to remind everyone that the ESS is a special privilege granted to pensioners with an annual net income of up to EUR 7,972, i.e. people who live every month at the most to EUR 664. So to these people, Ministers, pensioners, there will be a new adjustment down from 2017 to meet your goals. In other words, the solution to the government is nothing more than to impoverish the people who are in the weakest position, those who are over sixty-five years old who have no way out and who, of course, can no longer find work. Now, with this data, pensioners literally every month, when they are in front of ATMs, with a breath cut, fear what they can see in their pension, what will happen to them now. I would at least advise them that, to confront ATM, it would be better every month to take an underlinguistic to protect their health, because they don't know what might happen to them. A sublingual, Ministers, I think it's the best. I also think, Minister, that your letter you sent to retired people was not an apology letter, but an invitation to dance the Zalogo dance from now on, to make a decision - something like that reminded me of your letter - so it might be burned. Of course, the new insurance system, which will be particularly stringent with certain categories of free professionals, is in place from 1-1-2017. In fact, given that the business activity in Greece is constantly shrinking, I am very afraid that new insurance contributions will really be the last fatal blow for businesses. Of course, the main problem is that, due to the general economic collapse, professionals and businesses are really unable to cope with the contributions they owe for years and the entire insurance system is at risk of collapse, because many professionals cannot really pay. On this day-to-day big issue, I think that the government remains unreasonable and has not brought any viable solution. In fact, I have tabled a question from June under number 7252, addressed to you, Minister, calling for the freezing of the insurance debts of professionals, created during the years of the crisis, i.e. from 2010 to 2016, so that we can have a normalisation of the situation. Moreover, this is a constant request from all trade associations in Greece. I am actually asking the question about the Minutes. Obviously, Minister, my question will remain unanswered. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Theodora, is tabling the above-mentioned question for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the contrary, however, the only mobility we see is to the side of new pension cuts. The government may deny the possibility of the insurance being reopened as a debate with the institutions, but let us not forget that insurance includes other clauses. In any case, if the figures do not come out again, we will find ourselves in the unpleasant position to discuss from the outset what we will cut and where we will cut. Our main problem, but also the government, is that there are no investments, there is no growth. With unemployment in heights and with one firm after another closing or leaving abroad, who really remains to pay contributions? How is such an insurance sustainable if it is not collected? If there is no growth, how will there be receipts? Well, I cannot accept that, in other words, you can tell us that insurance is sustainable, but you still have to cut down. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In all this, the Central Association has taken a very specific position for a long time, since our President Vassilis Leventis has asked for the first time the nine points he has tabled. Secondly, all parliamentary pensions and all pensions of the former mayors, prefectures and other hereditaries should be abolished. I undertake to ask a question on this issue, Minister, to see how much the period of cows in the Greek people has cost us. Thirdly, to reduce parliamentary compensation, but also to reduce the number of Members from three hundred to two hundred. Of course, the most important thing is to abolish all double and triple pensions and merge all into one, which will not exceed EUR 1,500. However, I think they should get on the table. It is unacceptable to cut the pensions of the world that has worked for years, which has bleeded, which has paid contributions because some refuse to legislate. After all, we have all proposed these things and we will eventually have to do them after a few years, because the proposals of the Centroon Union are not pleasant, but in no case is it a micropolicy. It is the voice of common sense and of the people. What other party dares, not to vote for, but even to say 'yes' that those who have more than EUR 3 000 a month should not receive a pension? We say it, and we know it doesn't like a lot of people. But we are in budgetary stability - instability I say, stability you say - and that means that we will have to make difficult, but serious choices. We live at a time when all our fellow humans do not have the basics. Therefore, the most prosperous and privileged cannot oppose arguments to prevent their pensions from being cut, even temporarily, until we get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u211	Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u212	Wait a minute, Mr. President. On the occasion of my last sentence I propose this: since you do not have the courage to abolish, at least suspend the luxury benefits and overpaid pensions for as long as the country is still out of the market, under the surveillance regime. We are not in favour of our voters, but we are in favour of the Greek people. If your conscience protects you from cutting off the ESS, the supplementary, the main pensions and everything else left in a portion of the Greek people, do it. But remember, the day you will be answering the Greek people is not long. We will all be accountable and in this accountability the people will reward the responsible attitude of the Centro Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u213	Thank you. Mr Christos Mandas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, I would ask Mr Manda to give me his position because the committee of inquiry has taken a break. I could not be a parliamentary representative today. But if you don't give me the floor now, I have to go. I won't ask him later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u215	Under the Rules of Procedure, you need to take the floor at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u216	It doesn't come out any other way.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u217	I have no problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u218	You, Mr. Mada, have no problem. As a whole, I say about the process. Mr. Loverde, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I would also like to thank Mr Manda for this facility. Minister, Mr Katrugale, I will not refer to your programme declaration from the Thessaloniki International Exhibition on the thirteenth pension. These have been recorded in memory of those who were deceived. But I will speak for you as a political executive and not personally. We know each other, I think, decades and we have nothing personal. When you came out of the Maximos Mansion as Minister of Labour and Social Security, after you had consulted the Prime Minister, immediately after the September 2015 elections, you say there and I hear you: "I will not hurt pensions, I will draw resources..." the phrase now is yours, "...from the change in the architecture of our insurance system."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u220	'No horizontal reductions', I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u221	You remember better than me, obviously, but that's the logic. It is not enough that you had cut the main pensions in your memorandum for the benefit of - supposedly - of health - who the hell controls where this money is going and when, with the big hole in our financial corps - you first come to dismantle the subsidiary. See every day what the pensioners tell you about their subsidiary and leave the statistics, which no one listens to, and get the message of the mergers under your Ministry. Secondly, you come to break the middle business charges, especially as of January 1, 2017. We're both colleagues in the university and in the law. I honor that. But ask yourself, with your lawyer antennas, about what your fellow lawyers say - not about you - about how we will deal with 2017, to see your funds as well. You were a man who attacked the insurance, delivered to you with surpluses and an economy with surpluses. Not in an excellent situation, obviously with problems, but you had to fight in 2015 to make it just a few million supplementary cuts, not this slaughterhouse! Don't tell me. What is the point of exchanging arguments? To the retired people, tell them. Shortly after your insurance vote sounds like he opens insurance from the others, not from you, a few months later. In 2014 to 2015, four years after our insurance reform - for which I was invited to go around the world to explain it, I was spent in the Ministry of Health, increasing my political role, dealing with more difficult issues, commending me to the Greek political system - you come and dismantle them all. Not you, your predecessors. They don't want anything to do. They open the insurance, and you pick it up. From a few cuts to the subsidiary, your predecessors opened up the entire insurance policy at the initiative of the Greek Government. Other way they didn't want to! You pick it up and you'd only change the architecture. Ask pensioners what you have changed. Now they say they'll reshape you. Why? Because you did well? Will they upgrade your role? Are you going to be exploited elsewhere? Or, as it is said, will they try to get the situation off? I really wish you, because we know each other, not to throw you as an empty pack of cigarettes. I wish you had appreciated your contribution to the implementation of the memorandum and made more use of it. But, if that is not the case, then, Mr. Colleague, it means that the government recognizes that something has gone wrong with what you have done. To close, Minister, my experience, our bloody experience, says that when you take over and your funds are empty, you are clean with the people. As much as he distrusts, well-beings like you come to tell him "you're unconstitutional, you've had other methods and you didn't choose them, you're a traitor", no matter how much they come to say things, you have to stick to the truth. You lied, first of all, before the elections, lies after the second elections, and now people are facing the cost of your lies. It is not important to say what you said and what you said in your letters. Mrs Christophilopoulou first raised them here one day. I hadn't seen the letter. I have just read it: 'Is it possible to tell the retired people 'to cut them, but I am good and to blame'. Is that possible? Were you resorting to this? Political bankruptcy, Minister! The people would not have voted for you to be the best manager, who you have not proved, and I always mean political. He voted for other policies. What did you do? You hit the poor, even the very poor, and you broke the middle class, leaving it - if things go on in 2017 - to be a lever for the free economy as well. You kill the chicken that makes the eggs and you don't understand it. So we are waiting today for an explanation of what you have done, to come out of today's question at least your method, after your financial results have been seen. We hope you have learned that the sweat of the other must respect him, Minister, and not whistle and dance on the bodies of the other politicians, who have fought their battles.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u222	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not keep our time from now on, we will not finish at 14.30 p.m. And I have an order to close the debate at 14.30 p.m. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, I agree with you. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that my assessment is that there has been no calm discussion today on this important issue. Unfortunately, personal ambitions have been left behind. Fortunately, some of the proposals that have been heard have been saved - I say we have to look at them - but the overall climate has so far not been a climate of serious debate - let me - on this great subject. I'll tell what background we're talking about in my opinion. Insurance is a European problem, and Europe is developing a battle between the forces that want a public social security system and the forces that want a private insurance system. This is the big fight. It is a great battle, which, if you like, goes beyond what direction Europe has, if it will continue in the dogma of austerity, if this disparity between the North and the South will continue. This isn't all too far away. They are all the things that affect both the country's own course and the development path and the insurance system. Today we are discussing - because from morning to night we hear that the universe is falling apart around us, the insurance system, the government's revenue, etc. - the budget figures show an increase in the budget by 2.3 billion. We're not celebrating. We're not going crazy. We are not saying 'hurrah', but, in any case, there is one reality, which is specific and imprinted in figures. I would like to say that we all know that the essential answer to the question of the insurance system certainly comes through growth and employment growth. Have we taken steps in this? I think we've done it. Small steps, but we've done it. For example, 50% of the ESRB notices, which will be by the end of 2016 and 7% of the absorption from the ESRB programmes, compared to about 1.5% that was all over the previous years, are an element. In employment, we have had figures since 2001. Although the proportion of parttime work is actually increasing, which shows little progress, we are not celebrating. We know that when we have received a problem which is estimated at 25% - the 1/4 loss of national wealth and an unemployment of 27%, we have a lot of road and challenges ahead of us. All this time, an incredible effort has been made over the past few months to undermine, slander and distort all measures relating to insurance. The last example was the adoption by a large portion of the media and the system and the political system of those who celebrated as supposedly Gerun Daiselblum said that he is reopening the insurance. The next day they didn't say anything. They've been quiet. So let us see things in their real dimension. I want to remind you at this stage of a number of issues. What did we do with 4387/16 for insurance? I think we have made an attempt to restructure the system so that it does not continuously produce new injustices, new inequalities and - I am not saying excess - a prospect of sustainability, which, of course, is also judged by the elements I have said before, by the elements of growth and employment. That's well known to everyone, we don't have to say it. We have therefore put an end to pluralism, an end to the division of social security. We built the single social security institution for basic pensions by common, uniform rules for benefits and contributions for all, because that was an element that created inequalities and a customer state. We have incorporated all the ancillary insurance and benefits funds again into a single fund. We have committed ourselves and have managed to achieve no reduction in the basic pensions outside the EUR 2 000 ceiling, not to apply the zero-payment clause to supplementary pensions, which would bring horizontal cuts, which would reach 30% over the next two years, to the protection of income from main and supplementary pensions for all pensioners, with an income criterion of EUR 1,300 mixed. We have committed ourselves - and we have succeeded - to the application of a common annual growth rate of 0.45% in supplementary pensions, in the context of equal pay, the provision of a guaranteed national pension equal to that of the relevant poverty line, bound by the State budget and not by the contributions, with a development clause and not a return clause, the provision of a payroll, which is 0.77% for the first 15 years and is increased by up to 2% for the years after the 30th year of work, the application of a uniform rate of insurance contributions of 20% for the pension sector and 6.95% for the health sector of the taxable income for employees and the taxable income for self-employed, the free workers, farmers and others. I would remind you that we have done so together with a reform of the tax system. I would like to remind you that, on the basis of this reform, 99.8% of the employees - pensioners have a reduction in taxes or a very low burden - about 1% of the income and below for small incomes - a reduction in the average income from income of EUR 28 000 to EUR 43 000 and a burden, gentlemen, that you are talking about the rich of large incomes, up to 5% of the total income. Because I have heard that the over 70,000 euros are not tempted. Also, in relation to business, we have a significant relief for small and medium-sized incomes - 92% of taxpayers with income from business activity only up to EUR 32 000 will pay less tax - the significant progressivity of the new scale and the rationalisation of taxation by internal transfer of burdens from the highest levels to the lowest. Let me conclude by saying this: they were really high in numbers, in terms of the deficits of the insurance system, over 200 billion from 2000 to 2014. Not only this, but from 2000 to 2008 - that is, before a crisis, pre-crisis, prior memoranda, before anything - tripled from 5.5 billion to 16.4 billion. So we had a very critical problem in front of us. Some special things, which I think we should talk about: With regard to the change in the OGA. The change in the rate of contribution calculated on the taxable income will be gradual by 2022. Most of the insured will have a reduction or a minimum burden, due to the fact that the vast majority of farmers show an income of less than EUR 10,000. Farmers with many years of insurance and income below EUR 10,000 will have significant reductions. Example: Farmer with twenty years of insurance and taxable income 5,000 euros today paid the year 1,432 euros. For the same income, only EUR 1,044 will pay in 2017, i.e. EUR 388 less than today. In 2018 it will only pay EUR 1,140 and in 2022 it will pay EUR 1,332, that is, EUR 100 less than today. That's the reality. I do not have time to say any more examples. I will end with this: Look, because there is a lot of discussion about business taxation and growth, it is a myth that the reduction in tax rates is an explosion in growth. Examples: Finland has reduced the corporate tax rate from 26% to 20%. Investments as a percentage of GDP decreased from 23% to 20%. Portugal decreased from 25% to 21%, but investments decreased respectively from 21% to 15% of GDP. Slovenia decreased from 21% to 17%, but its investments fell from 24% to 19%. Spain decreased from 30% to 25%, with its investments falling from 24% to 19.5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Mada, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u225	I shall conclude, Mr President. I say this because these issues must not be approached unilaterally. The problems of growth and investment are more complex. In any case, the central battle at the Greek and European level is between public social security and the full privatization and reduction of the entire social net, which protects the weak. We will strive for them, as we have been able to do so far, with losses, with difficulties and even social strata that we did not want, but with an ongoing effort to improve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, on 4-11-2016, a criminal case for the former Minister of Finance, Mr Giannis Varoufakis. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty students and students and five educational attendants from the "Panos Schools" of the Prefecture of Itonokarnania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, two of the honourable Members, Mrs Christophilopoulos, for five minutes, and Mr Constantinople, for three minutes, follow me. The Parliamentary Representative of the Democratic Association Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu will also speak for five minutes. The two Ministers will follow, with seven minutes each and five minutes each, to complete as close as possible to the time we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u227	The Minister should speak first and then the parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u228	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, you'll tell me what you want later. We could change the show. Did you tell me to notice something?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u229	I said that the parliamentary representative should answer the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u230	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u231	Besides, the Minister has a tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u232	Incorporating tritology into dentology, my colleague. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u233	Minister, you're the worst thing that could turn out to retired people. Because it is not possible to tell us here that the world knows and it is not possible to hear from the Ministry of Labour's political leadership that the media is to blame, because they raise the issue of cuts in supplementary pensions. How long will it be to blame for these media balls? And other, previous governments, in the crisis, they had been smashed by the media, but by throwing the ball on the platform and running a caller contest for who did the worst we don't get out of the crisis. We already told you last year to go to dialogue. We have still tabled specific proposals to you today. We were trying, dear colleague, Mr. Manda, to be creative, as you requested. But what did you say and what did the retired minister say? Why, Minister, don't you go to the square and talk to them? Are you going? Answer me. You're going to the square, Minister? Go talk to the retired people today. Why don't you go? To be serious. We heard here about the replacement rate. You are reiterating that the rate of supplementation of the law you have passed is one of the highest in Europe. You compared it to what "bad" PASOK voted and accepted, why was there no subject at that time? Mr. Brutsis testified to you and the proportional study. The law passed by PASOK, in this case Lover and Koutromanis, had viability potential if it had been implemented since 2015. You're the ones who've been tweaking. You were going to the mints and I don't know where else around the world to do what? Bring in other situations. Then you got serious. I would also like to remind you, Minister, that 'we can hear' and from when we put our backs on the country not to fall? "We hear it" on top, when you know very well that we voted in the Memorandum of Tsipras and Kammens, the most horrendous memorandum, so that the country won't fall on the rocks, but we did not vote for the law on the abolition of the CSCE. So let you have the opportunity, let us have the guts, you, the so-called proud negotiators, to go and negotiate with the European Union not to cut the NSA to the low-pensioners, if you are left-wing and sensitive, as you say. I am also opposed to all this, because I can also tell you about the replacement rates, how you have been counting in the years, how the best five years have been abolished, and now we have since 2000 the calculation of the replacement rates. We told you these figures, that young pensioners lose between 15% and 30% of their pensions. These are calculated on the basis of the rates of replacement of your own law. The Law of Loverdou - Koutromanis provided for up to 80% of the replacement and by a proportionate study and accepted by lenders that it is viable for the next generations. We have heard from the Minister that it is the media, ladies and gentlemen, about insurance. We and today have tabled proposals to the question within, which are not customary. However, because a lot has been heard here about lies and fraud, I should just like to say a few words about the statements. There's also a video. Mrs Gerovas, the Government representative, by depositing the insurance law of Katrugalos, tells us: 'The government with the proposal she tabled yesterday on the reform of the insurance company does not reduce a single principal and supplementary pension.' Then you blame us for telling you that you're lying? Should I go somewhere else? Mr Nefeloudes, your Secretary-General, at a journalist's question at ERT, not a channel that is 'bothcan'! They ask him: 'Will you cut supplementary pensions?' And he says, "No, not at all." You yourself, coming out of the Maximos Mansion, declare: 'There will be no further reduction in supplementary pensions'. Note: it was the law to be passed when you made this statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u234	Horizontal reduction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u235	Horizontal reduction. But you didn't say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u236	We did.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u237	That's why we're telling you that the world was waiting for the thirteenth pension, it came to him what came to him, even voted for the 'parallel program' or what you told him, everything you said, and then you came to tell us nicely - fine that 'it's no big deal, we're not reducing'! And you carved it all! What I said to you - and I am closing down, Mr President - is that you have replied to the figures that we do not respond with evidence. Answer me about these. Are there so many pensioners who lose the ESS? Are these big-time retired people? What is it, Minister, these three hundred ninety thousand people? What are the other pensioners? But, of course, the way you do it is populism and lies. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u239	The reception of the insurance and the way the Greek pensioners think and experience it, showed it yesterday with their great protest. He doesn't need much more. There, of course, Mr Katrugalos did not go because he only went to the 'Indignant' this afternoon, after finishing his work at the Ministry of Education, where he was a consultant! I say that, Mr President, because it is an ethical issue. The Left has the moral advantage, and she boasted about it. Moral advantage doesn't exist. Now that the waters are fading, everyone can understand each other's course. We're proud of each other where we stayed in the rough. We faced like Mr Katrugalo tens and thousands and today we can be proud of our ideas and our views and speak in the progressive world, in the left world and tell him "they are the clumsies right". And the progressive world has to turn back, build a great alliance for the country. This is the moral advantage that they have been saying so long and the moral issues that we also managed properly, because at all this pressure we could not then speak clearly and listen to us. Today, however, everything is being heard and it will all be heard in the next few years. But I'd like to mention something Mr. Mandash said and it's very important to see how they treat New Democracy and SYRIZA, how many brothers they are. He said Mr Mandais "the programmes are going very well"...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u240	I said specific things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u241	The Ministry of Labour from the Social Fund. A few days ago, there was a front page on the First Theme, Mrs Halkidiki's against Mrs Antonopoulou, about which programs they take, which friends they take, who don't take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u242	Is that what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u243	The New Democracy comes out and makes a statement and says "they get the big KECs" etc. The New Democracy did not know that these programmes have been signed by Mr Plakkatakis. The management framework is specifically for social partners. They don't even know that in the New Democracy. And I'm getting into what Mr. Mandash said. You have delayed two whole years to move on. So what is seen in both the ESDP and the other programmes and the social solidarity benefit is that the Democratic Reconciliation, the PASOK, has always supported those in need. He didn't win. He supported through social criteria the people who were in a difficult position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Petersburg, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u245	From my position, Mr President, I will soon develop a few thoughts. I will not exhaust all the reasons why I have to answer them. What we see to be done here is a very good lesson, namely how the side of executives, representatives of PASOK, the Democratic Alliance, are taught the attitudes of some of the right wings. They are repeated, unfortunately, from what seems to be expanding, as many like to do the work in Parliament for serious things. Instead of talking about these topics in such a way, in this particular case, the person of Minister Katrugalos, because he is the scientist who has to provide services in this country from whatever position he is calling him. So, what do they want to be exactly? A state in their hands and nothing else can change? I have heard this many times and with various opportunities. At some point, some representatives of Parliament, in particular the Officerial Representation, threatened to leave because of a social security body, our Government dared to propose its own man. There is a systemic conception that remains, because we within a year of governance really cannot overthrow this whole culture, which is dominant in all ways of expressing public speech. What exactly is it that we are invited by the Democratic Partnership side to do? To keep, he says, the three pillars, as Mr Bariotas said, three institutions, as PASOK says, so that there is no difficulty in the functioning of the new social security institution. To maintain the different contributions? To pay more contributions than the older people of the age, again, than the older people of the age? Those who have thirty years of insurance to pay less than those who first enter the workplace? Because this is the case with doctors, engineers and lawyers. From 300, 400, and more than 900 euros, he who starts to live, from the one who has thirty years in the profession. Is that what they're asking? And after all, since we are entering a rule of equality, may we be discussing the ninety-three different IKA benefits, plus how many more of the individual institutions, so that we do not have a rapid pension award, a rapid one-off award, which we now achieve? And I have to say this at this point. When hundreds of thousands of single employees were left in 2013 that were not given to the Treasury more than thirty thousand single-handed, we are at a rate of paying the single-handed ones that will eliminate what is due in 2017. They are given about two thousand singles a month today to civil servants and from next month they will be given at a rate of about a thousand singles from the new benefits after 2014. And we have a very rapid version of major pensions awarded, which you will see how quickly they will proceed - so that I do not exhaust myself into numbers - and we will be judged on that. That is why I said again in 2017 a debate on what we are creating. As far as the ‘ELIOS’ was concerned, it had data which did not show a clear picture. And, indeed, we have been delayed since July 2015 that came out for the last time, because we need to make a proper presentation of the data on social security. Because the age of pensioners appeared not on the basis of old age, but a much smaller average at pension age, because there were other pensions in place, such as widows, disability, etc., which means that the Greeks are receiving a pension at fifty-five and fifty-eight years. It's not true. We're fixing it. The pensions appeared to be higher than that paid to retired people, because there was also the payment for the GFCF and the EEAS. Remove this, so that the valuation is accurate. The subsidiary included the dividend of the equity fund as an ancillary pension. False. That's off, too. So we restore a real picture of social security through a proper use of ELIOS, so that it becomes a tool that will help the country in the effort. Because these elements of "ELIOS" the lenders took them to put pressure on us for further cuts, to increase the age limits. And finally, with regard to the proportionate study referred to again by Mr Brutsis and had been presented by the Chief of Staff, we repeat this. If we are to keep the system viable by continuous reductions in the rate of replacement and increases in age limits, all right, but we do not want this result through these methods.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Catrugale, can Mr. Kegeroglu precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u247	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u248	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u249	But for the Minister to close, Mr. Kegeroglu. Are you going to precede to shut the Minister down?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u250	Isn't the Minister a dentist?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u251	He doesn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u252	We're going to unite the tritology dentology to shorten it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Kegeroglu, you'll be speaking for five minutes and the Minister for seven minutes, based on the time. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u254	Because the Minister will say things again, I guess, to tell him that after he got out in the Step and said what he said, I talked to him in tough terms. And I'll talk to him on even tougher terms if he keeps up with the same story and doesn't stand in the political field. Because it is the one who said "we are coming out with the old" and Genarris and September, but it is the same thing that incorporated the infected atoms and political cells, which our own long-standing rule had created. All the evidence of corruption or many of the evidence of corruption - not all because they have gone elsewhere - such as, for example, all Aki Tsohatzopoulos partners, are in the service of Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA. So the part of corruption adopted it from the old. He also adopted the perceptions that we can buy OTE and that "money is" etc., Luka Katseli... However, since the 40th century and the other parties have adopted what was worse: One day the President of Parliament, a daughter to the House... For Mr Pavlopoulou, I do not want to say why he is now President of the Republic and is out of criticism. But in all days, the three Secretarys General have reported corruption and non-transparent management of funds, the respective ministers, Mr Papadopoulos, Mr Odysseus Buddouris and Mrs Halkias. Rightly or unfairly, I don't know. So these were denounced and instead of the Prime Minister and the respective ministers to settle the cases, what did they do? They requested the resignations of the Secretary-General. He may have had to change the Secretary General as well to smooth things up. However, order an investigation: Are those which have been denounced? We are therefore coming to see that every time the government turns around and loses arguments - and the leadership of the Ministry of Labour does so and does not have what to justify and what to say - remembers again forty years and the PSI. So let's see these two things. For the 40 years, then, I'm telling you again: in January 2015, were there? If there were, why did you say all this list of promises and commitments? Was it all gross lies or were you based and on a basis that there was a recovery and we were going to do something? Either the other or both, as I believe, only the conditions that were no longer in place, were because your governance was intervened. The third unsatisfactory memorandum has unfortunately also brought these cuts that you have brought. These cuts were unnecessary, the deficits had been covered. The only thing that could not be covered and now covered by your cuts is the country's political government deficit. There is also a general deficit, of course. There is no national strategy. The Turks are struggling in the Aegean Sea, here from outside Attica have their submarines and the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotos to take the dose subscribing, although he has signed all the conditions, unfortunately they are working and strangled. Because the country doesn't have a national line. This is a more general issue. Let's go to the PSI. So every time, we had some fronts talking about the PSI. The PSI, therefore, according to your information - I am not invoking anyone else - and your own laws and more recently the draft budget, has saved the situation in the country. The PSI is beneficial, there we are relying on, and the PSI is what has really enabled the state to continue financing the funds. The total of 14 billion which tired the bonds of the insurance funds is 50% of state funding per year or, if you like, about the state funding given in 2011-2012 only for private funds outside the public sector. It was about 13-14 billion a year alone. You've made it a flag. But since it was PSI's fault, why didn't you reverse it? After the previous cuts were made, why didn't you suspend them? Why didn't you give them to people again? That alone, that is to say that you have adopted what has been done and said that it is not enough, but more needs to be done because of your own deficit, it shows that you are really out of place and time and are working at the expense of society. We have tabled twenty-two proposals, which I ask you to submit to the Minutes and, of course, to be given to the Minister and to the other colleagues. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents the above proposals for the Minutes, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] The twenty-two proposals concern both the sustainability of insurance and the treatment of injustices which are currently taking place and, of course, to prevent adverse developments ahead of January. I would like to close by referring to the issue of the ESS, the guaranteed income and the prerogatives. The ECHR is clear now, you have no excuse. You took some compensatory measures, we voted for them. It's only a part of it. It must be re-examined because for a large part of the pensioners it will not be covered by what you hope from 384. It won't be covered. It's another category one and the other. It will not, of course, be covered by the guaranteed income. Unfortunately, it is an irreversible decision that you have made. You know very well that we have agreed, after a proportionate study and a reform of the criteria, to maintain possible in another form, because it cannot be replaced. Review it. As regards the guaranteed social income, it had to have applied with effect from 1 July 2015. Our agreement, because it did not make any difference to benefits and everything else, was that from 30% of the surplus should be financed. And we acted in 2014. From 30% of the surplus we financed the social dividend we gave. So the same thing had to be done and this deal had to not be broken, which was deadly. Now you come and say "I'll put income criteria in the pre-primary, except for family and disabled people". Minister, I would like to inform you publicly that there are income criteria in family benefits. In all other things, there are also income criteria. Even many disability benefits which are not poverty benefits, but which exist to support people in order to be equal in society, but also because of their disability the constitutional obligation of the state to support them, even there is a classification there. Therefore, do not rely on the fact that you will draw resources from the privileged benefits to give them the guaranteed income. There's no way out. Only hours will be spent and studies will be paid. I've worked it out. Turn around. But I suggest that you put the proposal on the 30% surplus to the institutions again. And they don't lower the surplus, and they won't let us handle it the way we want? So it must be done from the 30% surplus if there is a natural surplus. I conclude, Mr President, by again stressing what our rapporteur said, namely that we, in the context of the question, tabled - something which is not customary - and proposals. The Ministers did not answer today on the proposals, because obviously not all of these thoughts were mentioned in the text of the question and were not prepared. If the Minister remains at the Ministry, we would like to have answers - by which procedure - to the twenty-two proposals we have put forward in order to save the viability of the insurance company, but also to restore injustices, which were either made in the previous period with the first governance of SYRIZA or with the so-called'reform' of Mr Katrugalos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, we are finishing the debate with you. You have seven minutes. Please keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, thank you. Indeed, it should be debates on the proposals, not the way most of the process has been worked out. Mr Kegeroglu specifically said in his prototype - I imagine that the Practitioners will find it - something that characterised this question in general. He said - as I have at least said - 'You must restore the injustices we have done'. I said before, that is not the issue, that is to say, whether the EUR 45 billion of the reductions in the pensions of PASOK and New Democracy are compared with at least EUR 1 billion of the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u257	There aren't any of these. It's alchemy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u258	They're deposited. The issue is - and with that it will be my final remarks, I would just mention it in advance - if we really do have an insurance system that is viable and fairer than before. More generally, this tactic is the thief's tactics in the bazaar that's chasing him and yelling 'handle him, catch him', let's confuse anyone. But we do. I've heard crazy things. I have heard from Mr Loverdos, who is a serious man and colleague, that we have been handed over surpluses to the insurance company. This is irrational placement. Mr. Giannitsis has specifically told you, but there is also evidence that you received a deficit of 6% of the Gross National Product in insurance and delivered 9%. I am not going to talk about all the inaccuracies that have been heard. I shall simply refer to some who are spreading and scaring the world. We're not going to make the pussy don't give 12, but 11 pensions. The 12th pension will be paid. The January pension will be paid on 29 December. We'll give 12 pensions. Nor shall small stores be protected until 2018. Small shops are protected as they were protected, because we have not changed the conditions for the obligation to pay insurance contributions to cities of less than two thousand inhabitants. You referred to Mr. Brutsi's analogy study, without knowing that he ratted you. In this respect, the Commission observes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u259	The update was ahead of implementation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u260	I submitted a statement by Mr Kutrumani last time in the minutes of the House saying that some preliminary studies had been submitted in 2010 and came in 2012 to testify for the rest. Obviously, Mr Brutsi's statement not to talk about deficits, because foreigners will understand it, shows the shoe of the negotiation. Not to talk about the real thing, but to try to convince others with constructed elements. That's not the way to negotiate. The negotiations always provide for reference to the real situation. Mr. Brutsis always has a inclination towards the spy fantasy, secret agenda, that we have made the personal difference to abolish it. I would just remind you that he has again accused us that the law in the original version was not written by us, it was written by a French company, after which it was not written by us, it was written by the International Monetary Fund, which was not only isolated in the spring negotiations and lost, but which is also the only one of our creditors that seems to be unsatisfactory in the way in which the negotiation was closed, precisely because we have a public system in terms of social justice, and he wants to reopen the debate. Mr Katsotis will speak only on the subject of letters and on the alleged inaccuracy of the information. The data for the formation of the amount of the subsidiary were provided by the HR. It is the body responsible for determining the amount of the pensions to be paid. It is almost impossible - I say the almost, because every human project can infiltrate a case of error - not the evidence accurate, because the one who recorded the amount is also the one who sends to the ATMs the amount that will be paid. The reason why the letters were sent was not to explain, nor to apologise, nor to do propaganda, as we are accused of. It was for every retired person to know, for the first time, what amount his supplementary pension would be, because, because of the weaknesses of our services, it was not possible for all the June adjustments to be made, as should be done. The issue was hesitated by the possibility of cultivating this atmosphere of poisonous disinformation that every time we had a new reduction, and it was, as we have said, much less than 10% of all pensioners, two hundred thousand people, in a population of two million six hundred thousand - which was only a month after the month. Just because this weakness of the services created the need to return retroactively, it had to be explained to pensioners that this is the final amount of your pension. Even if there is in the next few months the need to retain the retrospectives, the pension will return to this amount. That was the only reason why the letters were sent. Before I go to the issue of sustainability, I would say that one of the continuous and repetitive peaks of many speakers was the subject of consistency, both of my personal and of the general. Listen, we all argued from the outset that this insurance system, the clientele, was not fair and had to be re-established, not only for its financial sustainability, but also for justice. You will not find a statement of mine or - because I was an academic and I continue to be - my writings revoking the effort we have made. It was precisely my statement in Maximos that there would be no horizontal reductions and that the necessary adjustment of 1% would be made by the pension architecture. Even in the subsidiary that was recalculated, we did not have horizontal reductions, of the 'too' class, above a height, because that was precisely what had been considered unconstitutional by the Council of State. Because we understand justice and equality, not only within society but also intergenerationally, we have applied the new method of calculating new pensions and old pensions that exceeded EUR 1300 as the sum of the main and subsidiary. I am finishing what is, in fact, concerned with the average man. It was right that those who were placed, whether from the opposition or from our side, were right. Is the system sustainable? From the point of view of justice - and I am thinking of what I said earlier - the rate of replacement is for small and medium-sized incomes and greater than the one provided by the Loverdus Act with the cuts - to be objective - that followed, but also constitutes a public redistribution system. But will it come out? And how can we claim it will come out? Two are the reasons why we can well claim that this insurance is sustainable. The first is - I already mentioned him in my first speech - that we have eliminated the structural causes of deficits - obviously if we do not have 25% unemployment - which is the mismatch of contributions - benefit benefits. We have achieved this through the homogenisation of the rules for the collection of contributions - 20% in real income - and the corresponding homogenisation of the criteria for granting pensions. These are now in balance. But we also have a very large accumulated deficit. That is why it was necessary to adjust 1% of gross national product. Take care, however, of something that has not received attention. By negotiating for 2016 and 2017, we were able to obtain 1.7 billion, i.e. another 1% of Gross National Product, to finish with the "hidden" debts, i.e. pensions and the ones that are in line. Just because this additional money will also be paid in combination with an increase in collection and an improvement in revenue, it is the first time in the past twenty years that the deficit has not tended to increase, but to decrease. And, together with the rise of the economy, we hope that the Greek people will indeed have the insurance system they need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, thirty two students and students and three teachers from the High School of Skala Laconia. You guys, thank you so much for coming to the Greek Parliament. It's just that today's meeting is over. Be well! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The debate on the number 5/21-10-2016 topical question on "The insurance is not solved by cuts, lies and propaganda". Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-11-04-S1-commons.u262	With the consent of the House at 14.53 hours the sitting for Monday, November 7, 2016, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
