ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 8-9-2016, the minutes of the PPE's proceedings were confirmed at its meeting of Thursday 8 September 2016 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC (No. OJ L 127/1 of 29.4.2014, as amended by Commission Delegated Directive 2014/109/EU of 10 October 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing a library of iconographic warnings to be used for tobacco products and other relevant provisions.’]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce Monday, September 12, 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davaki to the Minister of Health about covering a vacancy of a rural doctor at the Kyparissios Regional Hospital of the Municipality of Monemvassia. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the "displacement of thirty-six thousand six hundred ninety-sixty Greek children from nursery stations". 3. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Ministers for Rural Development, Food and Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the reopening of the Purification and Standardisation of the Union of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Argolis "Esperides". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 1231/6-9-2016 of the F' Vice President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the drastic reduction in the disability pensions and benefits of the IAEA. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the establishment of a public IEK for adults with a view to special education. 3. The question by No 1201/30-8-2016 of the Member of Parliament Fthiotidas of the New Democracy, Christos Stakouras, to the Minister of Health, about the problems in the functioning of the General Hospital of Lamia. 4. The question under number 1191/29-8-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the protection of citizens from excessive bank charges. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We will begin the debate with the seventh under No 1178/22-8-2016 topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the adoption of a joint ministerial decision on the designation as flooders in the areas of Arcadia affected by the natural disaster of June. The question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Balafas. Please, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we had discussed the issue of flooding and disasters in Arcadia a month ago in Parliament. Unfortunately, we have such phenomena throughout the country, yet we will remain on the subject of our own question concerning Arcadia. Now you won't fight me for the generalization or specialization of the question. You will, I believe, be prepared to answer for everything and for what has happened so far. Let's get straight to the point. You said that by 20 August the Ministry of Infrastructure will be signed by the Ministry of Infrastructure, that the relevant ministries will have received - you said that those days would come - all the things that the region and the municipalities had to send to the Ministry of Interior, and that you would have contacted ELGA to see where we are and whether the process was completed - then we were at 75%, at a planting level - and all that. I think the question is very clear and you should answer it. I ask you why you had come to Arcadia and you know the disasters. These people, if they are not given immediate financial aid to what they have assessed, will have a problem over the coming years - not just for this year - in their production because the disaster is total. So it's just stuff. Has a joint ministerial decision been made? Secondly, as regards the demands from the municipalities and regions that came to the Ministry, are the relevant ministries ready to restore residents, farmers and professionals? What's the government's schedule? It is now the third month since 25 June. I would ask you, because they really are waiting for you - you have not been able to come here last week, there has been no issue, we have told you that we understand the difficulties - today, Minister, you are clearly responding to the people of Arcadia, that is to say the people who have been destroying their homes, professionals and farmers, what the government is doing from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, because, unfortunately, rainfall and floods are not perfect - I think we agree, Mr Constantinople and fellow Members - we are saddened by the victims of the last great disaster in the Peloponnese area again and see this disaster in general, whether these are summer fires or floods at other times as a rule. I would like to thank Mr Constantinople, who once again raises an issue that he and we are constantly concerned about, the issue of restoring damage from the disasters on 25 June, which, fortunately, did not mourn lives. I am, however, pleased today to inform Mr Constantinople and also through the debate and the special citizens concerned and the regional authorities of Arcadia that the joint ministerial decision was signed by all the ministers, heading to FEK, to obtain a number of Leave Journal of the Government. This means that the area has been characterised as a flood and can immediately be activated - I shall mention in particular - further measures for the affected. Because it is good to make an account, I would like to say a few words about the actions of the month that has taken place since our previous debate, from the previous question and where we are. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Networks, which is primarily responsible for all these issues, by means of the Rehabilitation of Natural Disasters, IAEA, which has this responsibility, as I said, for restoring damage to buildings from natural disasters, etc., following the completion of the record of damage to the buildings of the Regional Unit of Arcadia - following a request for autopsy by the interested parties - prepared the draft Decision we mentioned earlier to demarcate the affected areas for the damage to affected buildings, housing, business spaces, etc. There has been - I say this to have a briefing and that is why - a delay not with the government's responsibility. In other words, the authorities of the Region, especially the Region, had been asked, since 19 July, to inform the Ministry of the municipalities and communities affected by their buildings. That was delayed, it didn't happen. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Infrastructure has moved on so that we can no longer delay. The necessary procedures have been carried out to the Ministry of Finance, to the Ministry of Infrastructure itself. It has been signed, as I say, by the appropriate ministers. Therefore, from next week, Mr Constantinople, we will also have the FEK. One day over, one day down is the issue now. All the owners of the affected buildings will be able to apply - I say very specifically - to the responsible department in order to compensate for damages caused to their buildings. With this particular joint ministerial decision, also through the Ministry of Social Security, the facilities provided for under this legislation are given in particular - immediately now -. I do not have to deal with you now and with this House. These facilities involve capitalisation of current and delayed capitalisation until the end of May, the previous month of disasters, for the payment of insurance contributions to insurance institutions. They concern the suspension of payment of current contributions for six months, starting from 1 June of the month of the disaster, and these will be repaid in twelve to twenty-four equal monthly instalments after the end of the six-month suspension. Six months inhibition and then twelve to twenty-four doses. We also proceed with the same joint ministerial decision through the Ministry of Finance. In the light of the record of the damages to the undertakings made by the OTAs - it has been done, it has been sent to the Ministry of Finance - it will be immediately launched, as I have said, in order to compensate the companies provided for in the existing legislation. I am referring to compensation for undertakings, i.e. a subsidy of up to 30% of the damage to buildings, either equipment, raw materials, goods, or lorries, public or private, from theory. These can be said to be the measures which, by adopting the common ministerial decision and thanks to the efforts of all - I recognise Mr Constantinople and other Members - and also the joint efforts of local government and government in this matter - I think they have now taken a step. Then, in my denture, if I have any gaps, I'll mention it, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. Let us see positively that the joint ministerial decision will be made public next week. The joint ministerial decision has a number of issues which concern not only tax matters, as we have sent you a proposal. It is also about insurance matters. Mr Alexiadis also made a decision a few days ago. You told us and it's very positive. Also, there is the issue with PPC, with HISPIA and the banks. The joint ministerial decision, as well as many other issues on which we have spoken, such as the ELGA, is specific. You didn't talk about agriculture. I think you will speak in phase two. One of the many proposals that we have made to you and which we have tabled to you is that of the ELGA compensation for farmers. The offsetting of ELGA's contributions with compensation facilitates farmers very much. We also do not have the joint ministerial decision. If you have a copy, Minister, even though you have not gone to the FEK and you have signed it, it would be good to present it if you want, let's see what the rest of us are doing. I heard from you, if I understood it correctly, that there would be a compensation to households, household appliances, professionals at 30%. If it has been a disaster at 100%, and you say today that it will be 30%, you understand that this will cause too much problems. I hope you're wrong. If we have set a limit of 30% for households, professional and agricultural allowances, then I would like to say that it is completely opposite, to say this only, to what you committed yourself to as government and say. I understand they can't compensate 100%. But if from 100% we reach 30%, these people will not be able to cope. Unfortunately, I am telling you, and I will wait for the joint ministerial decision, I did not expect the government, with these commitments made, to speak to us about 30%. Nevertheless - and here you will be judged by the citizens - Minister, because it is not a personal matter, you have been in a difficult position as Minister to see in Arcadia. You came, and I appreciate it very much, you watched, you see what happened. I remember traits that you said the disaster was total. Now will the government give 30% of a disaster where you recognized that it has no precedent? Minister, you should know that we may have been the only party that came with you in the process of autopsy, made suggestions, participated in voices or anything else, made it wise to try and support the people of Arcadia and the region and now the rest. We made specific suggestions to you and sent them to the Ministry. We also dealt with your issue not to be able to come before fifteen with calm, with restraint. But if you have put 30% in compensation, I fear that, firstly, the citizens and farmers will not be able to cope with it. And unfortunately, Minister, once again, the government has mocked the citizens of Arcadia with its promises. I hope that won't happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u8	To conclude, because things have taken their way, just like Mr Constantinople recognizes, and that is good, to say that I do not have the Ghost of the Government's Newspaper - I told you that it has gone its way, I can give it to you, we will consult you - and I will inform you outside the meeting of any process in the last few days. I mentioned earlier that the existing legislation after the adoption of the common Ministerial Decision provides for a number of benefits, including the provision of services for the Ministry of Finance, which is specifically responsible for businesses. Because there are other benefits that I mentioned before for buildings, households, homes, homes, etc. In addition to the facilities in the funds, etc., there are others. There is also the question of subsidising businesses for buildings that are on the 30% limit under existing legislation, with the laws that have so far been in force - and rather these laws we have not voted on them from what I remember, because there is also a limit to criticism. There's no limit, probably, but maybe we can say a word too. These are laws that you have passed on to them, we have not voted on them. We do 30%, 40% or 40%, 50%. I listen very carefully to your position to increase 30% and we will take it into account in the next period. In any case, I think that extradition of the CSCE is a very characteristic act. We are moving forward and taking the other steps. I too should like to ask you here, as will all the services with the possibilities that we all have, to inform people of these benefits. Also, there are other benefits that I did not mention and which do not relate to a joint ministerial decision either of the Ministry of Labour for households or concern a ministerial decision by Mr Alexiadis, but concern other facilities in relation to taxes and insurance funds that I mentioned. Finally, we have the allowances of ELGA, namely through the Ministry of Rural Development, which do not concern the joint ministerial decision. You know that, from the early days, assessments and damage control began. What I have as information yesterday is that in livestock (beekeeper, ovine and caprine) the work of the estimates has been completed 100% and the compensation will be paid for this. 70% - that is, it is under way - the estimates on the various crops. That is why, as I have been informed, the delay is due to a new quarantine in August, and the ELGA is trying to make a comprehensive assessment of the damages in order to proceed with compensation. Finally, I would stress once again that we must - and this is what concerns everyone - through these debates and the tragic events and the catastrophes that are taking place and the need for natural subsidies and compensation for damages, to exhaust the margins - which is true that so far we have not followed this practice - to prevent many of the disasters. Not that this will prevent the major rainfall such as it was in Arcadia, as it was yesterday in Messinia - that you cannot prevent it - but we can, for example, in the fires to do things, to prevent the effects of major rainfall. We can see ditches, ditches, wells, streams, water drains, generally have a concern for lonely people at some such times, because as the President would say right now as a doctor, "better prevents it from healing." Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. This, Minister, is knowledge from the time of Hippocrates, we all repeat it and it applies to everything. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy, Development and Tourism: "Strengthening the tripartite Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the field of tourism". I would also like to announce that the following three topical questions will not be discussed, due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad: The sixth question under number 1224/6-9-2016 of the Independent MEP II, Theocharis Theocharis, Minister of Finance, concerning contracts with experts in financial, legal and financial matters to support the negotiation with institutions for the conclusion and implementation of the relevant agreements, as well as the negotiation of the public debt. The second under number 3062/10/10/2016 question of the Independent MEP Lakonias Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Finance about the compensation of the Partners of Cooperative Banks. The fourth question under number 1229/6-9-2016, first question by the Member of Parliament, Eitolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the exclusion from the aid linked to the criterion of an unfettered limit of 120 kg of milk per animal for thousands of farmers with indigenous breeds of intensive grazing. Also, they will not be discussed because of the impediment of the competent ministers, but will be redefined for discussion, the following seven topical questions: The first under No 1226/6-9-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the Republic of Attica, Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the abolition of Police Departments in the Region of Attica, due to an impediment - cause: a workload - of the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, Mr. Nicholas Toska. The second question under number 1219/5-9-2016 is the first question of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the “recognition of the scoppial passports bearing the name “Macedonia””, due to an impediment - cause: it is outside Athens - the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Nikolaos Kotzias. The sixth question under number 1220/5-9-2016 is the first question of the Greek Parliamentary I' Thessaloniki, Mr. Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on passport visas with the words 'Macedonia'. The second question under number 1222/5-9-2016, on the unjustified expulsion of the Tobacco Unit from Agios Kosmas, on account of a blockade - cause: misappropriated obligations - of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr.Theodoros Dritsa. The fifth under number 1217/5-9-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the published balance sheet of the Sniper Federation.), because of an impediment - cause: it will be in Thessaloniki - of the State Secretary for Culture and Sport, Mr Stavros Kontonis. The third, with No 1225/6-9-2016, is a timely question for the second cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the possibility of reintegrating into the regulation of 100 instalments for all those who lost it, regardless of reason - will be in Thessaloniki - the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Anastasios Petropoulos. The first under number 1227/6-9-2016, a topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios State, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the state of the red loans in Evros and Thrace, due to an impediment - unsuccessful obligations - of the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr. George Stathakis. We shall now proceed to the next topical and urgent debate. The fourth question under number 1230/6-9-2016 will be discussed in the context of the second question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the decision-making of contractors at the City of Heraklion Crete. The timely question will again be answered by the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Ioannis Balafas. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question concerns the forty-five employees with individual eight-month contracts in the field of cleaning up of the Municipality of Heraklion - and other workers, of course, in other municipalities in the country - who were hired in early 2016. They risk staying without work since, under the relevant legislation in January 2016, they can be automatically extended until 31-12-2016 only those individual contracts of employment that have been signed by 31-12-2015. For the definitive resolution of this constant hostage of the workers, with these unacceptable individual contracts, the JRC tabled two days ago an amendment to the Health Act calling for the extension of these contracts until the end of 2016 and for the conversion of them automatically into contracts of indefinite duration. The difference in the proposed provision of the JV from other provisions submitted either by the Government or by other parties is that the proposed provision of the JV gives a definitive end to the workers' work hostage. That is why we ask you to accept it. The ministerial amendment you tabled yesterday evening, which extends the contracts until the end of 2017, may indeed give temporary breath to workers and municipalities, but not only on the substance of this unacceptable hostage regime, on the contrary perpetuates it and puts the workers in incredible legal adventures in order to claim - and they will do so - the conversion of temporary contracts into contracts of indefinite duration. But if you were to adopt the amendment tabled by the JRC, it would solve the hostage problem definitively, and would simply be transformed without legal wanderings from the workers, who are not, of course, entitled in the end. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The essence, Minister, is that like previous governments, your own continues this unacceptable regime of individual contracts, while you know that all services A' and B' degrees of local government and especially cleanliness, there is a need for permanent staff to meet permanent and permanent needs. It takes brave funding, renewal of the fleet of motor vehicles, spare parts and others to provide the services required to the community as a whole. The ban on the recruitment of permanent staff, due to your Memorandum of Understandings, the conversion of these individual temporary contracts into indefinite - because this is what we and the workers have been asking for - in conjunction with the dramatic reduction of staff in recent years risking the collection of waste, contributes to further intensification of the work of existing staff - and is still fresh in our memory the sad death accident of the 40-year-old working mother of four children at the City of Heraklion, who lost her life - while moving the ground to privatize it, as has happened in other municipalities in the country, in Heraklion, in the Municipality of Hersonissos in particular. You ask, Minister, very specifically - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President: will you accept the JRC's amendment to put a final end to this working regime? Do you want it to be by the end of 2017? But do they have to be transformed into an indefinite time? We should be happy to accept it. In short, we want to remove the prohibitions on recruitment of PHS and PHS personnel to TAs, to become direct recruitment of permanent staff to all the services of the municipalities, and especially cleanliness, to simulate all contractors without conditions and conditions and, of course, to be financed by the State budget so that they have sufficient permanent staff and so that the health and safety rules can be complied with by modern means and a renewed fleet and not to be charged by the public on fees. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u11	Thank you too, Mr. Synchronous. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. As has been said, good luck has brought things in the way that a little, Mr Synthyakis - I am sorry - your question is out of time, because - with all the courage and comfort I have with you - on Tuesday you tabled a question - I have it in front of me - you are talking about rejecting the extension of contracts on the part of the Government, refusing to extend contracts. In your question as such, you are not talking about the extension of contracts and it is entitled 'extension of contracts'. You are basically talking about permanent staff alone. I have it in front of me. Obviously, this has been a mistaken one today, since of course the government's amendment, I think, and Mr Kegeroglu, which is here today on this subject, and also the amendment, tabled yesterday on the part of the Government, has been correctly adapted - and it is good - that this adaptation - in time, and we can now talk about the substance of the issue, which is the main one. The main issue that concerns the workers today - Heraklion, but also in general - is essentially what will happen to the large mass of workers - a part, that part of Heraklion has a problem directly - with contracts that are after 31 December 2016. We did not let it come to December, as we have such a negative experience in the previous period. From now on, September, we proceeded with the extension of contracts - that is what we were able to do - and we are in contact with workers and operators. So there is no insecurity of any kind, uncertainty to the workers about what is going to happen in 2017. The Ministerial Amendment by Mr Vernardakis and Mr Kurubli, of whom he is signatories, was tabled to the draft law "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria" concerning cross-border, police cooperation. It came down yesterday and entered for discussion in the committee responsible. So it's just a matter of days to act.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u13	Wednesday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u14	I also referred to Mr Kegeroglu, who has tabled a corresponding amendment. You're telling me that you've testified, which is good, we coincide. So there is no reason to have - and I say it by purpose - no concern for those octamites, but also, in general, no refusal, rejection or anything else. From there on, I have to say that there is a 2012 law - you know him - which says that there is a suspension of recruitment until December 31, 2016 for the employees of the OH and PH category. You also know that especially in the area of cleanliness - and we, but it has been before - we have done and implemented a number of favourable regulations that go beyond bans. I do not want to mention here, but the municipalities are currently recruiting a number of workers, and we are also sending circulars respectively. I would like to say, of course, that it is a regular practice that is not bad - that you are asking for it to be all permanent workers. Secondly, you say that regardless of what is being done, there are no fees, that is to say, no fees for the municipalities, but all to go from the state budget. I do not know whether that would be a good idea, but - in any case - you understand that the conversion of all fixed-term contracts into an indefinite period and the permanentisation is contrary to Article 103 of the Constitution, and that it is also a matter for discussion in the Constitutional Review. What I want to say, to finish, is that we are today and thanks to the efforts of all of us, are pleased to resolve the issue now, in good time, so as not to cause any concern for the workers. We are these days in contact with the workers, so that people can easily deal with the next period without worry. We look forward to and pursue the best. Questions like yours or other amendments do not help the joint effort. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u16	Minister, it has been permanent in recent years - I personally have taken place several times - the Minister, in answering a Member's question, telling him that 'you are coming late, you are coming second, you are coming third'. I'm so sorry. The question has been put in such a time, which is a timely one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u17	The Tuesday that passed us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u18	In time of news, not unpopular. Secondly, the amendment of the Communist Party of Greece was tabled much more ahead of your amendment. We filed her on the 6th and you testified her yesterday. So why is it unreasonable? In no case. But will you respond to the key issue? When will these services, the structures of the municipalities, regions, other public services, be exempt from this permanent hostage of this unacceptable employment regime, the eight months, the two months of contracts, and the ever renewed ones? When will this labour regime end? Of course, invoke the Law of 2012, the Memorandum Law. It is a Memorandum of Understanding of the previous PASOK and the New Democracy Governments and you invoke it, which you said you would come and abolish it. And not only do you not abolish him, but you invoke him today and apply him. Your Government implements literally both previous Memorandums and the third one. I'll bring you some typical examples. In the Municipality of Heraklion, do you know how many workers at the Cleanliness Service are? Two hundred people, two hundred employees in a calli-democratic municipality, and most of them are with fixed-term contracts, when seven years ago they were five hundred workers, whose vast majority were permanent in the then capodist municipality of Heraklion. So you see a difference in staff size? Permanent workers are currently 90% old from forty-two to sixty-two years old. You realise that gradually, by not recruiting new staff, young workers, it makes their work difficult, despite the efforts made by the workers themselves and being called upon to carry out a heavy and unhealthy task, that of collecting it. A lot of people retire. So are eight-month contracts, especially cleanliness? I'm asking you. Twelve months a year, isn't there a need to collect garbage? If, then, there is this necessity, why do eight-month contracts and not permanent staff? Tell me. Note that we have never had a position that we do not agree or vote for, for example, the extension of contracts if it comes. That's another one. Of course, and people need to find a job, keep working. But here, we say you have them in a lasting hostage. That is the main problem and the solution - I repeat - by 2017, of course, is what you are giving, but it will recur. Here we will be again and we will discuss the same. What do I mean? It also has some impressive features of what you are doing in the face of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, because you feel it is good that, following a repetitive bar of anti-grassroots measures, anti-insurance muddling, tax-laundering against workers, all of the popular layers, and at the same time measures that strengthen the large capital, business groups with warm state money for capitalist development, which you call it a fair development, but always at the expense of workers, you feel the need in a way to present a somewhat parallel programme and within it is also part of it. Will you finally answer us whether or not you will turn them into indefinite time, since it is necessary for this staff to carry out these services? We call the workers. Don't you go to have any contacts, any communication channels you want with the workers? Workers should not fall into the traps of your own and feel that they should say, and I thank you, because you extended the contract, that is, the right to work. On the contrary, workers must do everything in their power not to submit to the logic of the lesser evil, to take the case in their hands and to fight, because they are entitled to have permanent, stable jobs, full pensions, insurance rights, to claim to remain unhealthy work allowance, because you are preparing to abolish unhealthy work allowance. You know that the deadline is very specific, until the end of 2017 and not only this, but you are working on new measures, new working forms in such structures and services of the municipalities, such as the block, project contracts. You brought it in March 2016 and withdrew it under the workers' reactions. For all these workers, they must be vigilant, keep their eyes and ears open, fight and fight, and now is the opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u19	Please, Mr. Synatiakis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u20	Today, Friday, we have a rally in Athens, Saturday at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. All on the streets to overthrow this policy, to claim self-evident, that is, the right to work and the right to life. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. Mr Balafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u22	I will say a few words, because I think that nothing new has been added from Mr Syntagakis' dentistry, beyond the generalisation that was his right to do. I don't have much more to say. I'll do some repetition. I will remain on the fixed ground of the question, repeating that on Tuesday, September 6, there was no question of an extension, but only of permanentisation. That is a matter. I do not want to make general as to what that means, but I am once again presenting this fact, namely that the extension is not subject to the question on 6 September, that is to say on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u23	Give the answer to the substance. Don't evade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u24	The good news is that we all agree - and you - that extension is a good thing and it is done in good time. There is no concern, no reason, anyone out here talking about catastrophe or sorrow, because there is no cause for concern among the workers. Secondly, from 1-1-2017 situations are not eternal or difficult or very twisted or binding. We have not said, for example, that the agreement that we signed this summer so that we do not leave the European Union - which after this agreement the people gave us 7.5 points up and made us a first party - that we will not stick to the agreement. Let's be clean. We have said that we will respect the agreement in the best way possible, with the greatest possible social sensitivity, and that is what we are doing. That's what the world was convinced of, and that's why he voted for us. From there on, we are applying other issues that do not fall under the 2015 agreement, including a number of issues, which I will not mention now. As of 1 January 2017, there is also a new status in recruitment. Prohibitions are liberated for both HR and PW workers. It changes the status of recruitment. Finally, I told you again, but let us just take this into account, see it in the Constitutional Review, the question of Article 103 of the Constitution, which prohibits the permanentisation of staff, etc. or the conversion of contracts into an indefinite period. I believe that the then legislator - I do not know how many of you were in Parliament at the time - did not do so by chance. We know that for many years there has been a practice, not only by the detainees at government level, but often also by the detainees and at administrative level, to make contracts of different duration, and after these conventions, that is to say, our own who could not put them through objective procedures. I am not saying that this procedure concerns this question or what we are discussing. I think, however, that this issue of the non-conversion of fixed-term contracts into contracts of indefinite duration, as required by the Constitution, if there is a question, let us look at it at the constitutional revision stage, which is not far too far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much. We move to the fifth, with no. 1218/5-9-2016, a topical question for the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Independent Greeks Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction concerning the complaint of mismanagement in the Municipality of Kefalonia. You have the floor, Mr. Papachristopoulos, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u26	First of all, I want to make two points clear. First of all, I have nothing to do with Kefalonia. I'm not a Kefalonia congressman. Secondly, I would like to remind you of what Leandros Rakitzis said several times that the municipalities are within the three sections of the public sector that are a farm of corruption. I would like to begin and tell you that I have come to my hands with things that have made a great impression, indeed a great impression. I didn't believe in my eyes and my ears with what I read and what I heard. I would like to highlight one element, Minister, that the Mayor of Kefalonia between 1-1-2016 and 31-5-2016, in other words in five months, signed two hundred direct award decisions, totaling around EUR 1,1152,000. At the same time - and it is important - the Mayor of Athens, Mr Kaminis, has signed only twelve such decisions at total cost of around EUR 90,000 and at the same time the Mayor of Thessaloniki, Yiannis Boutaris, has signed only one such decision of 2,500 euros. In fact, direct award is not the rule but the exception to the rule. These were baptized by works that were in work or services because the limit of direct assignment was up to 24,000 euros. One element is that. Let's go to second place. I would like to remind you that the President of the Argostolian JHA, the same municipal authority, from '14 to '16, signed four hundred decisions - complaints say that he had no right to do, within twenty months and ten days - for direct awards of projects worth some EUR 1.683 000. The fact is that at the same time in all JHAs in Greece, there was no decision of the President of JHA. Even the predecessors of that president did not sign a similar decision in the same municipality. I go to a third element Complaints but from "GENERAL", i.e. official, show the same documents to be paid twice with different warrants, different version numbers and different dates. I'm going to fourth point, that's important, too. At first, in 2011, before taking over the mayor, which is four, five years I think, the direct assignments for car parts, machinery, etc. the municipality was around eleven and the amount was about 12,900, or about 13,000 euros. Funnyly, when the new municipal authority takes office in '12, direct awards are made at a hundred and seventy-four, the amount of expenditure is up to 185 000 euros and incidentally all of this is under 5,000 euros. I would clarify that this is the maximum amount, after which the Court of Auditors begins and checks. I would also like to say to you that an independent sworn accountant, Mr. Fedonas Tzoras, in a report dated 24 September 2015, Minister, who deserves to read it, and not much - listen to me a little - does not get any information on where they went, with an angular request for information, to find out which buildings of the municipality must be compensated, etc., but such information does not take. Then he was released for the Kefalonia earthquakes...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u27	Please, Mr Papachristopoulos, you're finishing up because I think that five minutes you've spoken from the two you're entitled to are enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I think we have time. There's no one else. It's worth it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u29	We have two more MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u30	They were then made available to the municipality, Minister, about 6,340,000 euros. It is worth seeing the report by the sworn accountant, who was neither too little nor too prevented from doing his work. They didn't give him any clues and he went by saying. I would also like to say that there were not one but many complaints of undeclared black work, for strange recruitments for which there is currently a decision by IKA Argostolio, who fined EUR 495.872, because there was a salt with recruitment. I could talk to you - the President is right - until morning what they are denounced through the 'DIAGYIA', through the information I told you about how public money is managed in the Municipality of Kefalonias. I would really like to show you, to know these facts, to see what you intend to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much. Before I give you the floor, Minister, I would like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, sixteen American students from Webster University. We welcome you today, here, to the Greek Parliament. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to thank my colleague, Mr Papachristopoulos, for bringing back an important issue, the specific complaint by the citizens of Kefalonia, of course, anonymous. It's their right, of course. We're talking open here. I would say that it would be even better, since they consider things to be brand-named. But that is their right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u33	Not even the sworn accountant is anonymous.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u34	I do not question credibility, i.e. the fact. To God! But I think that in these matters it is good to have transparency and so on. That's my opinion. But beyond that, this is not the issue of Mr Papachristopoulos' timely question. Therefore, it raises one issue, a complaint that was first lodged on 2 February 2015. Indeed, a complaint had been fully preceded by such a complaint - and by the same complainants - just before 31 October 2014. In studying all the documents on the basis of - and to answer Mr Papachristopoulos - I first found that at the time it was the end of the New Democracy - PASOK, Samara - Venizelos. We were going for the election. Then we had the first phase of the new government, the first government of SYRIZA - ANEL. In any case, I would say that the procedures that have been carried out at the time, which have even changed the Secretary-General of the decentralised administrations, which play a key role in the process of investigating complaints, have contributed - I appreciate - so that this case, at least from the state side, will not come to the end. Not that it wasn't examined, but it didn't come to the end. In the case of Voutsi, through the services of the Ministry of the Interior in April 2015, a document was sent to the decentralised administration and requested that the decentralised administration should respond on issues relating to the ATT, as it is the essentially responsible for OTA problems and we had a document of the decentralised administration towards the Municipality of Kefalonia. The Municipality of Kefalonias is receiving the complaints, compiling its report, responding in July 2015 and informing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the end, in the twelfth month of 2015, indicating in particular its own duty, which is limited to legal control. So if you look at the relevant documents or want to see them, the persistence of the decentralised administration is at the level of legality control. You mentioned, for example, that it is a impression - if I understood correctly - that various contracts are broken into such a sum, which is at the limit of what is permitted to be directly awarded. But this, if you look at it legally, it is not formally forbidden, as the decentralised administration says in the twelfth month of 2015. I'm telling you the facts. I'm not making an assessment right now. The Ministry, with the data at the time, did not go any further. He was squeezed over the legality control that the decentralized administration did. There was no advance - at least this is apparent from our information, because we had a very short time before your question was tabled to date - to the Administrative Inspectors' College, in which, according to the decentralised administration, her answer to what she has done or is still studying it in the months that have elapsed. Your timely question - that is the important one and that is the offer - brings this issue back to the surface on 7 September, the day before yesterday. The decentralised administration, the materially competent, this forty-eighth hour restores us, responds - the Decentralised Administration of the Peloponnese, West Greece, Ionian Islands, the responsible - by reintroducing the answers of the Municipality of Kefalonia and by speaking and insisting on the question of legality. So it restores us this answer. What I think now - to be practical people - is that the Ministry cannot currently go beyond the data of decentralised administration. I think that all complaints, all the elements - and we are also committed to verifying whether everything will be done properly - must be referred through the Secretariat-General for Combating Corruption, Mr Colleagues, to the General Public Administration Inspector for the further. I think it is a process - if there is a problem - completely objective, even with a delay. I tell you how things are with the decentralised administration, with the Ministry's data and, more generally, with the February 2015 complaint, which, in your question - because there were no actions in the opinion of the complainants - revert to the forefront and topicality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor for two minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u36	First of all, Mr Minister, I would like to tell you that the 'GENERAL' is not an anonymous complaint. It's an official post of the city itself. In fact, this municipality is being denounced, over the municipality of the city, to provide incomplete information. However, all of these elements you call anonymous are all from "TRAINING". I have before me - and, if you wish, I can help you - all decisions one by one, one by one, one by one, by the date, by the decision, signature, etc. I forgot to tell you that another complaint that makes eyes is about 10-11-2014 on fire protection. In other words, November, when the fire season is over, the mayor assigns directly to the road network and other common areas total expenditure on fire protection to 1,291,000. The number of complaints is not over. We could talk by tomorrow. Time is too short. I want to say this. First of all, I am not confusing the ministers and the government that ruled. It's another thing the city is. I say to you that there are mayors who belong to one party, while they are governed by another, and they are very right and honest and vice versa. I don't think it's a party matter. It is a matter of particular persons and municipalities, and it is something I think you will see in practice. I sincerely want to tell you this: the evidence I have in my opinion is stormy. No one can question them. I first acknowledge the presumption of innocence to the mayor or to anyone. All of this is within "GENERAL", which he himself posted and has to do. When we say that, in a five-month period, the other four hundred decisions are signed, while no one is signed throughout Greece and its predecessors have never signed, that is not an anonymous complaint. It's a specific complaint. There is a decision of the Court of Auditors - I told you, indeed - which says that for under five thousand it cannot control it. And what do we do? When the other one cuts out the works, it reaches 4,900 and is by 1,000, by 100, they are incredible amounts. Those things have happened over there. I don't know if that's the process. I don't know her, Minister. I think your intentions are good. I think, however, that it is imperative that it should be checked on the presumption of innocence - I honestly say this to you, I don't even know who the mayor is, I don't know him in the face - and he should be checked quickly, because there is a large part of the citizens he has really misled. There are many more contractors who were friends, former municipal councillors, how they are appointed, what they did. I can't believe I'm telling you. I could talk by tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u37	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u38	I think there's a common place in what we're saying. We have the same evidence. These are elements which are really interesting - I say neutral at the moment, because it is not my role to assess - and it is reasonable to comment, to point out, to criticism or, otherwise, to describe what is contained in citizens' complaints. I would therefore say, Mr Papachristopoulos, that we should also have a cooperation, since you agree, that we should proceed with the process, in which I would say, in a way, all those involved, in this case and the municipality and citizens, want the case to come to the end, to pass through the sufferings of public administration inspectors through the General Secretariat for the fight against Corruption, through the General Inspector for Public Administration, etc. And I would point out here - because there were really no coordinate procedures and, I would say, quick, that I can say by making a self-criticism about the state at the time - that there was another complaint of the same complainants in particular about the Public Water and Wastewater Operation in the Municipality of Kefalonia again, which was tabled on 10 July of this year and immediately by the Secretariat-General for Combating Corruption, unlike previous documents, which was generally a delay, was sent to the General Inspector for the further. I think that the state needs to complete these procedures, and that is what everyone - let us say this - is involved, so that there is no doubt and no dark spot in any case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, may I have a word. He was acting by law and he's independent...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u41	I'm not allowed, Mr. Papachristopoulos, I'm sorry. Talk to the Minister privately. We proceed with the first of the petitions - Questions No 5701-27-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKGROKEKKKKKKKKEKKKKKEKKKKKEKKKKKKKKKEKKKYKYKYKYKIKYKIKIKIKIKKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKKIKIKIKIKKKIKIKIKIKYKKKKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKYKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKYKYKYKIKIKIKIKYKYKYKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOVOVOVOVOKOKKKKKKKOVOVANKOGANKOGANKOVOVOVANKOVANKOVOVOVOVOVOVOVANKOVOVANKOVANKOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOGOVOVOVOVOVOVOVOVANKOVANKOVOVOVOVANKOVANKOVANKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKOGANKKKKKKKKKKKOVANKKOVANKKKKKOKOKOV The Minister will answer Mr. Xanthos. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Just one comment on Mr. Katrugalu's statement of intrusion. Yesterday it was my timely question to discuss exactly the same thing as today. I mean, I asked two questions on the same subject two different days to prove that the Ministry of Labour avoids coming to answer. Yesterday, as a competent person, Mr Petropoulos declared a workload. All right, we've taken it. Today, on the same subject, Mr. Petropoulos does not say where he is or what he does, but he says Mr. Katrugalos "I am in Thessaloniki" and declared a loss. In any case, if they are both responsible, we must ask yesterday why Mr Katrugalos did not come and today why Mr Petropoulos did not come. I'm closing it. I say this to you as President and as a member of the Conference of Presidents to see that it is appropriate now. But the weaknesses and real jobs that are respected. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] I come to the question today concerning the opening of the Regional Polyvalent Iatrician Tymbakis. I have tabled a series of questions in 2016, because there was really a very good job there by the Ministry of Health in collaboration with the region. It was built within about two years a multi-powered medical office. It is building in place, it is ready in terms of equipment and our demand, by extension, of the demand for local society, is to work as soon as possible to help resolve the major health problem in the wider Messara region. So the question is specific: What design will the Tymbakis Polyvalent Physician? How many permanent posts will be published or already published? How many moves will be made to medical, nursing or auxiliary staff or in any case how many overall positions, whether permanent or under contract, will be created in the next period in order to function? And what is the timetable for all these actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u43	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, I think that we are in a phase that really has completed the real estate upgrade, the operation of a modern building in an area with a high population density, which indeed needed an upgraded public structure. This project, therefore, of the Polyvalent Regional Health Service was rightly integrated into funding through the NSRF during the previous period. It was completed, the installation took place in July, as I have been informed by the service, and at the moment, obviously, the big bet is its good staffing and function. Today's picture of staffing is that they serve two qualified general doctors, who have taken over positions of old agricultural doctors. The 7th Health Region has declared a position of curator 2, a general physician or pathologist, who is currently in crisis and we are making an effort to speed up the process, which we know is usually time-consuming, to complete and place a third qualified doctor. Also, they serve two T.T. nurses, a P.T.A. helper and a midwife. So, in total, we have six staff, two medical staff and four nurses - paramedical staff. It is expected through a 1998 CSCE notice that we have activated, which concerns administrative staff, an administrative official, who will be taking over soon. At this time they take up work and are about a thousand people for the whole health system. And what we are planning - it has been requested by the HR, we are looking at it positively and we will include it in the overall planning - is an ICP position of assistant medical laboratories, a manufacturer, in other words, so that we can, together with an equipment that has been launched, there is also a haematological analyst and the possibility of a very limited but urgent set of laboratory tests, since it is strengthened with an additional person. Two positions of rural doctors have also been requested. So these are the demands that are being examined at the moment, namely one manufacturer and two additional agricultural doctors. There is also the commitment that dentists who serve at the Centre for the Health of Moires have come to an agreement to cover the regional health office, obviously provided that the corresponding infrastructure is provided, that is to say, a dental position which will be able to upgrade health care at the level of dental care as well. I also know that the EAW sector, which is in Moires, covers 24/7 throughout the region. I think, therefore, that this overall picture shows the possibility of an upgraded provision of services in the region. The feeling I have gained from communication and with the executives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that local society is positively assessing these steps that have been taken and, of course, look forward to the even better and more upgraded functioning of this regional medicine.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Kegeroglu, would you like to be seconded?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u46	Of course, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u47	Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you have referred to numbers of doctors and other staff that you intend either by means of a notice or by means of other procedures to ensure for the Tymbaki Polyvalent Doctory. You have not, of course, mentioned the timetable that is necessary in this case, because if we go at the usual rate, we will be unable to operate the multi-powered according to its capabilities. Because, obviously, there is a function, apparently some people are serving, but the potential of this multi-powered medicine is too great and I think we need to do everything possible to get rid of them. This is because the Tymbaki region is on the one hand a multitude, it is a very large numerical area, it also serves certain areas of southern Rethymnon and is part of the wider area of Messara, which the Centre for Health has problems. It has important problems that you should also see. I have tabled a question for the Centre for Moires Health, where I am specifically referring to the radiological laboratory, which is in operation. There's only one operator employee, there's no X-ray doctor. The microbiological laboratory, because biochemical retires, if there is no care immediately, can be closed. The pediatrician meets needs and hospitals, he's one of those who work twice. And all of this, in combination with the more general problems, also insist on the staffing of the Polyvalent Doctor of Tymbaki soon and on dealing with the problems of the Centre for the Health of Moires. To see the interest that exists in local society - not through the services - I do not question the view you have expressed, because people in his agony are waiting for and consider any action that is being taken in this direction, but at the same time struggling, he is participating and protesting - the demonstration by participating in the support concert of the health center really shows the interest of the local society, but at the same time shows that there is a problem, otherwise it would not be so much involved. They didn't just go for the artistic piece. They went to this great event in Kule, in Moires, too many of our fellow citizens from the Messara region. I would therefore like the procedure to be done - not necessarily today - in practice more specific and short terms, so that we can have results quickly for staffing and the Tymbakis Polyvalent Physician to get flesh and bones and for its full operation. Of course, to say he played a role, but it was not the decisive one, it was because there was a need. Because it happened that the people who were driven into the region should be from the Messara region and have been interested above. But it wasn't that decisive, as some people say. The population of Moires, which should normally be a small hospital, as well as the Tymbac region and South Rethymno, is very large, which is served by these health structures. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u50	I will only say a few words, Madam President. I know the image and structure of the region's population, and I fully agree that special attention and support are needed. This is all about, if you want, the primary care. It was an area that had suffered a very large disorganization in recent years. The truth is that last year's effort was mainly to support public hospitals, which also received the great demand for incidents, precisely because they did not operate the primary care filter. This year we are able to make a more targeted aid. We increased the 2016 budget for primary care from 120 million to 150 and also increased the possibility of recruiting ancillary staff, mainly subsidiary doctors, to primary care structures and from 14 million in 2015, we went to 20. In this way we have made some 150 recruitments to doctors for primary public care structures, particularly in rural-type health centres, but also some to PEDNs, and this is certainly in need of more stable steps. For the time being, the information I have received from the Ministry is that in the next call for positions of agricultural doctors, usually made every two months, i.e. late September - early October, it will be possible to anticipate these two positions, be covered by agricultural doctors and have an additional reinforcement of the multi-powered regional doctor. The issues relating to the Centre for the Health of Moors are to be discussed, to be informed and I am happy to see what scope for improvement there is. I think - and I close with this - that the big bet, which we are currently pushing, is a comprehensive reorganisation, a new model of primary care in the country and, above all, in the large urban centres. This is a big gap in health policy in recent years. It is an important reform and we have the happy juncture - let us say - to change the design that was in existence and speed up the steps for its development, making use of European resources, resources of the ESRB. We will be able in the next few months to say more details and bring a bill to the House, which will reorganise the landscape of primary health care as a whole. I think this will be an intervention to upgrade public care to the place as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u51	Have you been given the evidence of how many organic positions...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u52	The multi-powered I think it's covered with them. There are no more. I think that the multi-powered have three doctors' seats, usually three more - four other staff seats.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u53	Thank you. The last question will now be debated for today. It is the third, with number 1221/5-9-2016, a top-round question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, regarding the resignations of the Management Councils of the Higher Education Institutions. The Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs will answer Mrs. Anagnostopoulou. The always active Vice-President has the floor for three minutes. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to say that, with this question, the Ministry is given the opportunity to clarify what is being discussed in universities, that is, the Ministry is trying to weaken the framework law with various amendments. I say this because it is important to clarify and clarify what the Ministry is thinking about doing in higher education. Now, as far as management boards are concerned, as you know, it was a change that took place with the last law passed a few years ago. Of course, the administrative boards were aiming twice: one was to be enriched by people with international authority and, secondly, by people who could benefit from the use of positive, not to sell, the university property. That's two reasons. Of course, the clarity of the law is not sufficient to cover these two issues and one, if you like, clarification, and that would be a good thing, in other words, what role these councils play or what role they have to play in the future. However, the more general problem facing higher education is that after the framework law, which was an incision to its era to the administrative system of universities by abolishing the seat, which was an antiquated institution, it spent twenty-five years and that which was pioneering for that time, is now beginning to go beyond it. So what has to be done is that it needs to be copied with a model from a successful university, without waiving the Ministry into pressure from trade unions, teachers, students or anything else and repeating the same phenomenon. With that same law, which I commend, you see that after twenty-five years there are the following side effects, if you like, which are now visible. Imagine that at the Athens School of Medicine, which is one of the best of the Athens University and, more generally, at international level, it was noted that this was strange: in the application of the law, which says that teachers must be judged and, of course, voted to become teachers, there is also a provision of that law, which says that if someone with a large scientific surface, personality, etc., he can be held by revocation, not to be judged, in order not to reduce his prestige. To date this article has never been implemented, although proposals had been made, if you like, for the boulders of the international solid science. It wasn't for anyone. The first application made without a crisis has now been made and has involved the relocation of an open, free university professor at the Athens School of Medicine, who, in fact, did not have a degree in medicine, that is, he was not a doctor. I tell you, to see the goal of the legislator, the application of the law for so many years and - if you like - the development of the law today. Of course it's not the Ministry's fault. I'm not saying this for you, to God. But the Ministry has to look at these things and see them again, because the university is indeed the country's life. I would also say something to you, Mrs Anagnostopoulos, who is my personal one - if you would like - a proposal. The Prime Minister must in the Constitution foresee something for the universities. I was the one who has been supporting the public university for years and not private universities. But now I see the country being surrounded by universities of doubtful prestige - I am referring to the countries surrounding it. Cyprus has eight universities and the Greeks go there and get degrees. In other words, there must be a constitutional provision, which says what a private university will at last have, what standards it will have. Will she have Harvard standards? Sorbonne? If you do such a thing, then you'll stop the evolution that I see coming. Because Greece will be filled with a number of such stories, whether at its borders in Gögelis or anywhere and, of course, we will still say that we are in favour of the public university - which I say to you that I have repeatedly written in favour of the public university. Unfortunately, we must see things as they are. I mean, when the time came for the car, everyone said the car shouldn't come, for a thousand reasons we have to stay in the carriage. But unfortunately or happily, the technology went ahead, the car came and the carriage doesn't exist today. So, you need to see these things. In other words, protect the public university in a few words. And the best precaution of the public university is to prescribe what a private university should have. And if you specify what it has to be, you can be sure that you will not come to a private university in Greece like this if you want form. Unfortunately, if you leave it that way, I mean in your administration, I fear he will come. And that's the concern I put to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u55	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I would like to say first of all that the question you are now asking me is a little - to enough - different from the question that has been tabled. However, let me begin with what has been tabled for the Councils of the Institutions. I should like to thank you, such as another Lysia, and myself, for the impossible reason, which gives me the opportunity to refer to an issue that we really need to discuss with soberness. First of all, I would like to say that we have not abolished this institution or undermined it. An institution was introduced to the university - and I would say above - who was absent from the university community and introduced heterogeneous administration into the Higher Education Institutions. There is, to date, no print of creative supply in the operation of these Institutions' Councils, so that we can start from the standpoint of self-evident. It is important, therefore, to make it clear that the Council has not failed because we have undermined them. They failed the Councils, because Mr. 4009/2011 himself did not clearly describe the responsibilities of these institutions. What he clearly did was give the Foundation Councils the power to pre-eminent candidates and Quaestors. We, of course, abolished this competence of the institutions. And we were not the ones who did so as our inspiration, but within ten months, three decisions of the Third Division of the Council of State have been annulled for this reason. A major issue was raised, Mr Cremastine: they were not represented. When the candidates were pre-selected for collective bodies with elections democratically, then the institution councils were undermining themselves right from the outset. Here too, Mr Cremastine, because we are often accused of not taking the university community into account, I will tell you that we are taking slow steps to ensure that we have the view of the university community for what we are doing. The establishment of the Foundation councils has not been the subject of this practice at all. In other words, there is a body on top, without even the legislative framework, which introduces court proceedings and undermines representativeness within universities and institutions. I would like to say this, for what you are writing in your question, about the so-called extension of the term of office of the councils. Let me remind you very briefly of the history of the extension. We did not extend. We are interpreting the decision, which extends the mandate of the institution and which we have not done. L.4115/2013 says the term of office of the institution councils expires on 31 August of the respective year of completion of their term of office, as you know from the university, so that no elections are held in the middle of an academic year. Therefore, while this law, this provision is of the year 2013, and it should be the term of office of the boards of institutions to end in August 2017, artificially with correction to the FEK Mr Arvanitopoulos has made his term of office since 2017 in 2016, while the term of office of some councils had to end in 2018. We are therefore making a correct interpretation of this extension. I'll come to a final point and come back to my dentistry. You keep saying, the Opposition, that this law, the framework law, as you said, 2011, was passed by a large majority of Parliament, etc., which is very right. I will say, however, that shortly after one year, the next Minister of Education, Mr Arvanitopoulos, has, as the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State of 2015 says, produced a series of important amendments to the original rules of Law 4009, which show a clear restriction, if not a deterioration, of the participation of the councils in the exercise of the administration of the Higher Education Institutions. Well, it wasn't us, then. In the first place, this law has suffered. If we want to have a real, substantial debate, we need to see why the law suffered and why this institution could not work. I'll be back in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u58	First of all, I would like to say that I do not blame you. If you have noticed, I say in the question that'many people claim to be wanted...'. It reads: 'is wanted', 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u59	I didn't tell personally about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u60	You realise that it could be written and "target", with "e". So there's no charge. Because you mentioned the Lyceum's reasons, I answer that there is no charge at all. However, there is a question of clarification, clarification and concern - if you wish - within the university community. And what you said is right - and I am adopting it - that, that is, Mr Arvanitopoulos has retreated into pressure from the intra-university and made these amendments, which he has made. That is why I said that all governments - I hope it is not yours, if you come in such a context - are regrettably retreating. The pressures are adequate. That is why I say to the second part of my question: why does an administrative model of one of the first ten universities in the world not apply to them? In other words, when you have dialogue with the leaders, with the institutions, with anyone, you must say "What you suggest should apply to one of the ten universities, which the international rankings have as the first". If everyone comes to every minister, to every ministry and tells him his problems, to make them law and, because of the self-sufficiency of universities, to do what I described earlier, then you realize that these universities are 'in the air'. That is why, at least because I believe in your intentions and I say it again, the intentions must be implemented with decisions. That is where you are calling for clarification. That's why it was my question that you told me that I was expanding it. Indeed, I extended it because it was not the reason for me to support the management boards. It was simply to give you the opportunity to reassure about what is being said and to say something more, if you can say, if you have made decisions, about what will happen with these EHS. That was the reason why the question was asked and not the narrow opposition speech, recognizing from within the weaknesses that have administratively been identified. This is indeed my intention, and I have told you in private that the country needs greater changes. Andreas Papandreou had announced - and he didn't do it because he couldn't, he didn't get time, there were reactions, take it as you wish - that the country should have a National Academy of Sciences and Arts, such as America. He said so many times here in the House, but it didn't happen. These are issues which need to be discussed, in a debate, if we really want to give something new to education. Because otherwise, making arrangements for dismantling them is of no value. You, for example, make a law that comes out of the Opposition and says: "I as soon as I become a government, that I will once become, overthrow it all," so the law has no value. So my question is positive - do not take it negatively - because it gives you the opportunity with a dialogue to move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u61	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Kremastino, I didn't get it at all that you're criticizing me or accusing me of something. As you can see, it was a form of speech about Lysius and "Super Imposite". What I want to say, however, is that the highest institutions in the country operate not in empty air in relation to the university community, in relation to students, in relation to society. What do we got? We have a time of crisis. We have very good institutions, many of them are very good and appear in international rankings, despite the fact that the criteria are not always the same. When one wants to change something, it takes time and money. He can't change from above, so he can build his name in history that he's building a framework law. When the institutions are in crisis, at the time of the crisis, what we need to do, at least in our view, of the Ministry of Education is to strengthen them. They must be strengthened so that they can keep up the crisis, much more because there are sub-funds, cut back on funding. When it became the framework law of '82 the Greek university came out of a great adventure that was the junta and you said so. There was the seat, there was all this and, therefore, it needed a renewal, a great change. At a time of crisis, what is needed is to strengthen the democratic institutions of the university and the TEI, strengthen them in the institutions and enable them to be strengthened to staff with so many pensions. So we decided to take one by one, why is this where we had in 2011? We had a framework, the n.4009/2011, who actually did what? Without taking into account the university community, without taking into account that our foundations are at the forefront of the European institutions in terms of democracy with all the imperfections, the complications that have been created in such a way - and there to discuss them - it comes in and brings about a framework law, which a minister next year is changing. Universities do not work, they paralyse to a large extent, as the TEIs do. As for the institutions' councils and the reason why they were made - to strengthen extroversion, excellence, association with society - in the questionnaire that the chairman of the Committee on Morphic Affairs sent to them for their self-assessment - which was to be done every two years and sent it - the answers are that almost none of them were achieved, because there was no legal framework, the legislative framework. So we cannot legislate in empty air to change something that does not exist underneath. You will remember very well that in 1982 there was a movement that required these changes before 1982 and, indeed, the framework law answers a question of dynamics that the community puts underneath. Here to what question did the law answer - box 4009/2011, because I also live in universities? In a question that the legislator himself put, he replied in absentia of the community. Therefore, this model with institutional councils, of course, has many foreign universities with other roles, such as an advisory role or whatever. But in our case, as in other cases, one takes into account what instruments one has. Did those organs work? If these instruments didn't work, let's see. But if it worked, we could inhibit the pathogens created not above and without a request from the academic community, wear something else. [[At the point, the end of the speech bell is ringing by Mrs. Deputy Minister.]] Madam President, I will only need one more minute. You ask what legislative initiatives we are going to take. We have taken a lot and, above all, we have done a lot of intervention to strengthen the institutions, such as the post notices, which is very important. You know that. If there is no university potential, institutions cannot function. We also have scholarships for young people, because that is the question that is being asked today, how to stop fleeing and not how to change the entire university institutional framework and the TEI from above in a moment of crisis, without any money to support it. One last point which, I think, deserves the trouble to say is that where a regulatory framework should be introduced and postgraduate studies have never been introduced. It now opens up and is organized in Greece, in our institutions, in the second cycle of studies, in postgraduate studies, and there is no reconstructed framework. So we have come to see anarchy phenomena in the sense of infinite tuition, and despite the decisions of the Council of State and of that kind. So we start from there by direct law, which comes in the next few days and also, with issues relating to the functioning of the institutions, what will shield them and keep their level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u63	The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. I have the honour to inform the House that the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics presents its reports to the public prosecutor's requests for the authorisation of criminal prosecution against Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 16 June 2016 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u64	The minutes of Thursday 16 June 2016 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-09-09-S1-commons.u65	With the agreement of the House at 11.45 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, 12 September 2016 at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a debate on topical and urgent questions
