ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 30-3-2016, its minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the President of the Council, of Wednesday, 30 March 2016, with regard to the vote on all draft laws: (a) ‘Repeal the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic in the areas of Infrastructure and Energy and other provisions’ (b) ‘Structification of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Korea on Mutual Protection of Classified Military Information’.]] Before entering the topical and urgent debate, allow me a statement to this House. The Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Development and Tourism, National Defence, Research and Religion Education, Foreign Affairs, Transparency and Human Rights, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Culture and Sport, Economic, Environment and Energy, Refugee Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Maritime and Island Policy, Statement, and Deputy Ministers of Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Reconstruction, have submitted a draft law on 30-3-2016: ‘Asylum, Refugee Authority, Refugee and Identifying Service, Recommendation of the General Secretariat for Reception, Adaptation to the provisions of Directive 2013/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on common procedures for granting and withdrawing the status of international protection (Recast) (L 180-29-2013), other provisions on the protection of beneficiaries and work of international protection.’ This draft law has been classified by the government as urgent. It shall be referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS First, the nineteenth under number 660/15-3-2016 will be discussed with a topical question by MP Kavala of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the reintroduction and restoration of the payroll subsidy, based on European regulations. The question will be answered by the Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr Stathakis. Here, Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, first of all I regret the fact that he is not with us to discuss the question, which we have presented together. He had to leave as a matter of urgency. His obligation is to be found in his homeland to say goodbye to his mother, who died today. So I'm staying to get this thing up fast. It is well-known - we have discussed this several times, Minister, and with you and the previous ones - that the measure of subsidising wage labour costs to undertakings in the region of East Macedonia and Thrace has been adopted by a law of 1989. The reasoning is that this measure supports undertakings located in remote and disadvantaged areas. The region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace is clearly one of them, perhaps the most disadvantaged in Greece, since according to official figures GDP per capita is the lowest in the country and the region is one of the twenty poorest in the European Union. The term for paying the wage bill paid by the OAS was for businesses in Kavala and Dramas which were subsidised with 4% and not 12% - another issue - not to make redundancies, namely to keep existing jobs. I think he has his own meaning, too. On 22 December 2015, following our initiative to table an amendment with a proposal to set aside the State which has to make a contribution since 2010 with tax and insurance obligations, you said to the House, Minister, that you were negative for the continuation of the measure, as the European Union did not agree with it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. But, from there on, new data have emerged following a question to the European Parliament, Mrs Maria Spyraki. Commissioner Westager, the European Commission, answered her question by not saying much or much that the competent bodies of the European Commission are not aware of the issue, they have not been consulted by the Greek authorities. So the Greek authorities, the service providers - not you or your predecessors - have not made sure they are aware of this measure, but in any case this is incompatible with the spirit of the European institutions, especially as regards support for disadvantaged areas through this measure. So for me there is a question and I think the Ministry can re-examine it here. New data has come up. But the fact that has been in place for a long time, and it is dramatically increasing nowadays, is that entrepreneurship must be founded, especially in the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, because of the extra issue - huge, which is growing over time - of the migration of enterprises into neighbouring Bulgaria, which provides much more incentives than Greece today for someone to deal effectively and beneficially with the business. So these are the questions we ask. We believe that there is the possibility of reviewing the whole framework, of instructing the officials to inform the European Union institutions and from there and beyond what is going to happen with the maintenance of this regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Panagiotopoulos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u4	Thank you for the question. Let me refer a little to history, to actual data on this measure, and to why our Government decided to abolish it. By Law 1767/1988 and later by Law 1836/1989; therefore, for the 1980s, industrial, craft and mining enterprises were entitled to financial support in border areas, as well as in the Kalamata and Messini regions of Messinia, due to the earthquakes of the time. New ministerial decisions were extended to other prefectures. I can mention a number of laws that have been extended and do not in any case constitute border regions. The payment of the subsidy has stopped - I stress this - in 2010, mainly because of a lack of credit. Since then, and under the responsibility of the governments of New Democracy - PASOK, debts have been accumulated to the beneficiaries of EUR 200 million, much of which relates to Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. With regard to Mrs Spyraki's question to the Commission, this is an vague and general question and a selective reading of the Commissioner's answer. In particular, the MEPs in her question generally refer to national regional employment aid, without specifying precisely the case we are discussing today, i.e. without direct reference to these laws. In fact, Commissioner Westager answers: 'On the basis of the information available, it is not possible to identify the measure to which the honourable Member refers. Therefore, the Committee cannot comment on the specific characteristics of the measure in question.’ The Commissioner's reply refers to the possibilities offered by the general exemption regulation or to the notification of special arrangements. I would like to point out that the notification of a special scheme. It does not generally advocate State aid to undertakings, but only to aid for new businesses and employment of specific categories of workers. In particular, it concludes in its reply: ‘No company is entitled to receive State aid unless the Member State decides to grant aid in accordance with the relevant EU regulations’. This measure constitutes State aid incompatible with Community law since, firstly, the notification and approval procedure provided for by Community law has never been followed by the European Commission, nor has it been subject to a de minimis regulation concerning such cases or an expropriatory regulation. Just to say: no government had ever notified this measure. Secondly, it's a special character. So it runs counter to the principle of equal treatment. Thirdly, there is no time limit. Fourthly, it does not subsidize new jobs, but existing and existing businesses. Since the introduction of this measure to date - I repeat, since 1988, there have been radical changes in the Greek labour market. The fact is that in 2012 from the fifteen counties covered by this regulation and for which data are available from ELSTAT, the 11 have experienced unemployment rates below the country's total, contrary to nine counties not subject to the measure, which had higher unemployment rates. I would remind you that the subsidy was through the OAED policy. It is doubtful that the measure is also a development worker, since the undertakings as a whole benefit indiscriminately regardless of their economic situation and dynamics. I now come back to New Democracy's late interest, since the data are well known. Firstly, the measure has never taken a European status as legal. Secondly, since 2010, no single euro has been paid for this measure. There is a document from the Ministry of Finance - I can submit other documents from all the departments of the Ministry of Finance - dated 21 March 2013, in which the Ministry of Labour is asked to abolish this measure. The interest of the Members of the New Democracy is splendid. I repeat that, firstly, they have never initiated the procedure within the system provided for by Community law, secondly, they have not paid from 2010 onwards and thirdly, the service actors are assumed that since 2013 they had pointed out that it is a measure that should be repealed. In February 2016, from the co-legislative ministries, all relevant ministerial decisions were abolished by me and Mr. Tsakalotos. The following grounds are analysed in detail in the justification for this decision: Firstly, there is incompatibility with Community State aid law. Secondly, there is a lack of funding from the national part of the CCT. Thirdly, there is doubt as to the effectiveness of strengthening employment and boosting growth. Fourthly, there have been distortions in the application of the measure since the beginning of the measure. As far as our proposals are concerned, the co-legislative ministries are planning new measures to strengthen employment and entrepreneurship, in the light of the present circumstances of the Greek economy, the financial possibilities, while ensuring that they are compatible with Community competition regulations. In this context, specific support for border and other disadvantaged areas is planned, firstly, through the new development law. I would also remind you that 35% of the NRP resources have been directed through its regional strand in the regions to design specific measures on their territory, including employment support measures and selective business activities. As far as business compensation is concerned, the law, as you know, provides that after five years the law has been deleted. However, acknowledging that there is a problem, since, in our opinion, there has been a measure after 2010, but nothing has been paid for in order to compensate the companies that were included in the measure and which - I repeat - have not received a single euro in the last five years, retroactive application of the de minimis regulation is being investigated. According to the regulation - which is possible - state aid may be granted to small and medium-sized enterprises, up to EUR 200,000 per three years for each company. This solution will cover small businesses, about 70% of those in the measure - even on paper - from 2010 onwards and which have not received any other grant from 2010 to 2015. I would stress that, it is a condition for de minimis not to be in other forms of grants. Any other method of compensation is incompatible with Community law. Finally, in order not to unduly penalise an undertaking, since it has already taxed the subsidy it has not received, it is proposed to make a commitment that the abolition of the scheme will allow for the submission of revocational declarations and the repayment of the amount paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I didn't come here to politicize the debate. In fact, I implied that previous bad guys didn't clear the scene. I did not imply that, but I clearly understood that the previous ambiguity had to do with the attitude of the officials, who have never considered it appropriate to shake the matter up and, above all, to notify the European Union institutions of the measure. But you are coming and talking about late Members of the European Union. I assure you that this is not the case. And there have been too many attempts - not just by me - to make representations to ministries and other questions in order to maintain this measure. Unfortunately, you are insisting today on announcing his abolition. So if I want to politicize the thing, I can go upstairs and say that the government of SYRIZA decided to abolish the measure. I see - and I have to say that you see - and, if you like, compensation for this damage, but I would remind you that at this time a ministerial decision is not in place to abolish the measure. There is only the debt, the gap from 2010. Welcome to see and consider the refund of the tax already paid by the operators for the extra registration of these amounts in their income, despite the fact that they have never been paid, i.e. in their assets. I insist that we are not talking about me and Mr. Dashkos - but, somehow, he is here with us - any region in Greece, but about an area primarily border area and an area that is currently facing, as I said, the bleeding of its businesses towards neighbouring Bulgaria. Yesterday - and I close this issue - I was talking to a friend of mine, a businessman, who relieved me that he is taking his seat in Bulgaria, because he is now tired, in any case, of being mocked by the Greek state. In the city of Blagoevgrad, 71 km - or a little more - from Thessaloniki, a city of 71,000 inhabitants, are founded every day around ten Greek businesses. Three hundred businesses a week in northern Greece leave for Bulgaria, that is, they carry their tax head office. The phenomenon was intensified in particular after the restrictions on capital movements, capital controls. It started with the creation of accounts with Bulgarian banks in order to make it easier for companies to do the self-evident daily, i.e. payments, and gradually increased - with the gradual transfer of the tax office. This is really disastrous for the economy not only in northern Greece, but also throughout the country. Imagine the revenue that the Greek state is losing at the moment, since companies and even productive enterprises producing Greek products are transferring their tax head office abroad. They are still producing Greece, but tax revenues go elsewhere and in Greece there are only branches making the main production. I think we need to find with your Ministry - we are here to make proposals to you - a way of supporting entrepreneurship, if they are your intentions, because other issues of an ideological nature also arise to support entrepreneurship. I do not think you have any such concerns. However, we need to see it, we need to see the netting of debts with insurance and tax obligations, we need to look at issues of lowering energy costs, we need to look at issues of lowering the tax deposit, which can not be supported by 100%, or rather business can withstand next year's tax advances, as if the same profits are set at 100%. We need to see some measures to strengthen entrepreneurship. Only in this way, with the strengthening of entrepreneurship, will existing jobs be supported. There may be new ones. I say that this is very difficult to do within a period of recession and, indeed, with the dramatic conditions that we are experiencing now. Only in this way, if existing employment is supported, but possibly with new jobs, will our insurance system and the social state and the whole country be supported. So let's see what we can do. Unfortunately, what I have learned from today is that the government does not intend to continue this support, the state aid, despite the fact that you could see it with your business partners, so long as they want to do their job. I am incomprehensible to the formality - I cannot speak of other criteria now - of many service actors who carry to you or the Minister concerned certain specific opinions, which, as is apparent from communication with the European Union, have nothing to do with one directly - to say so - contact as it should be. Let them - after all - communicate the matter to the competent European institutions, as they had to do. You know - I close this issue and thank you for the tolerance, Mr President - that the answers, in fact on the basis of European texts, to the relevant questions, also involve an vagueness, a generality and a broadening. So if Mrs Spirakis' question is vague, in the right spirit of vagueness, which, however, leaves room for various positive interpretations here, I think it gives us a basis for continuing to claim this measure which, as I said, is now a matter of survival, not of increasing profitability, for the operations of the region of East Macedonia and Thrace. We will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Panagiotopoulos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u8	First of all, I apologize. I would like to pass on to Mr Düsseldorf - with whom another debate has taken place - my condolences for today. We have had the opportunity to continue this debate. I think that the data on this matter are now well known and I share the need not to politicize any further than that. I think it is a common place that we want to support entrepreneurship, above all - I stress it - in border regions. With regard to the problems - which we have referred to in a previous debate - concerning the relocation issue in Bulgaria, I think that the information I gave to a previous question is a response to this particular issue. Also interesting is the reverse flow. Yesterday and yesterday there were meetings at the Ministry with Greek companies, the ones that have relocated in the previous years, who are interested in returning to Greece. This is also a very interesting issue, although I insist that, for the last year, the figures I submitted to the House last time do not show any particular problem of fleeing. The evidence I submitted showed that there are nine thousand Greek companies of interest. Two thousand are the ones who have some activity, even spy. Seven thousand are simply, as we say, a very small office somewhere or not even an office, a box office, they are nonexistent, and in the last year there have been only two thousand, who have absolutely no activity in the neighbouring country, but they are opening accounts. I now come back to the issue at issue. Firstly, we will continue to look for a solution for the past to cover at least a compatible programme, as I said de minimis. Secondly, we are considering strict measures for border regions - I stress this - which are compatible with Community aid. I think it is our common position that the border regions, the businesses that are working there, should be supported. We have taken, with all courage, the decision to stop the measure. The service actors - you are right - are totally unanimous in this matter that it could not continue. They are, however, totally constructive and some thoughts and suggestions they have, in order to claim forms of subsidies, which are compatible with this region. I repeat, it must be specific, it must have a time horizon, it must not be horizontal for all businesses, but it must be targeted. The aim is, to be able for a certain period of time and on specific terms, to really support businesses in the border regions and that is what we will do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move on to the next time-limited questions, let me say this from the Step and expressing the Bureau and the whole House, to express our warmest condolences to Mr Prussakis and to his family for the loss of his mother. As Mr Panagiotopoulos and Mr Panagiotopoulos have said, the topical and urgent question would be discussed, because it was on the same subject. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and two teachers from the 62nd High School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The second question, with number 700/23-2016, will be discussed in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis, with the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, and the second question with number 702/28-3-2016, on the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of Cyprus, of the Democratic Reconciliation of PASOK - DIMAR KEgeroglou, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the government's inertia for the development of the Yunker package. As they deal with the same subject, they will be discussed at the same time, without, of course, affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, on the basis of Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure. We'll start with Mr. Hatzidakis, Mr. Kegeroglu will follow, and then the Minister will follow. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, the question refers to the Yunker package. I am not talking about the new ESRB, I am talking about the so-called EFSI, the European Fund for Strategic Investments, which is beyond the ESRB. It mobilises resources from the Connecting Europe Facility and Horizon, mainly, who are then leveraging in order to invest according to the EUR 315 million European-wide plan. That is why there is no national quota, such as the ESRB. Each country can take programs, depending on the reliability of its plans. I would like to remind you that the country has a major investment problem. Investments are the only tool in order for Greece to enter the path of growth. Let me remind you even more that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has repeatedly advertised the Junker package, of course, by confusing the ESS. It has even tried, in the context of this confusion, to convince me that the NSRF has been negotiating this with me. In any case, what matters is that, here, the Prime Minister himself has stood up to the possibilities the Yunker package can give the country. If it were to do with it, it is about the subject that I have so far focused on and on what the question focuses on. The Greek citizens must know that so far, because all of this has been transparent in the European Union - and there are websites on this subject and the European Commission and the European Central Bank - there have been prior approvals at the European level of EUR 76 billion, for projects of some 200 billion - that means 24% of the total budget - but, first of all, there is no Greek project, there is nothing that has even been submitted by Greece. I have here the websites and tables of both the European Investment Bank and the European Commission. Greece is shining in its absence, and this is the case at the time that twenty-two of the eight countries have put forward proposals in this regard. We are in the six countries that have not submitted such a proposal together with Romania, Malta, Cyprus, Estonia and Latvia. So the question is - and I conclude, Mr President - firstly, why is this delay on the part of the government, while the Prime Minister himself has made the Yunker package its flag? And, secondly, is there any plan in particular with a start, middle and end, on the part of the government, which can reassure us that, if anything, such proposals will be put forward and that will have a degree of maturity which will enable them to be approved? Because one topic is the declarations of development and the Yunker package, and another topic is reality and the reality has nothing to do with the declarations. The government in this matter - at least so far - takes zero, not from me but from the tables of the European Investment Bank and the European Commission, because it has not submitted any work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, when the European Strategic Investment Fund began in 2014, the idea of the Juncker Package was a positive development for Europe, of course, but especially for our country. Greece has been struggling for a long time to get away from the recession cycle and really, after many efforts in 2014, this light began to appear for the first time. However, if there are no synergies for exploiting the new European resources of the NRP and all other programmes and competitive programmes, such as the one concerning the so-called Juncker package, if private resources are not activated from our country and from other countries, there will be no real result. And we are just at this critical time when after a regression, after a regression - which I hope is only one, two years old - we are in front of the critical point, but having lost considerable time. We have lost considerable time, as the figures mentioned before show, because twenty other two countries are in front of at least some procedures. Today, however, the aim is not only to score the path that I believe is 'zero'. There is also a negative score, Mr Hatzidakis, and I believe that the evaluation, unfortunately, has been too much. At least, from now on, we can see a different function, so that we know - starting with it - the information, to see whether there is a hierarchy of the projects, if the list of seventy-four projects is in force, if it has been hierarchical, if it has been cleared, which of them, in which areas and with which priority are being proposed under the Juncker package. In addition, I would like to know about the projects proposed by Crete, namely the cable for the energy connection of Crete with the mainland, the International Airport in Kastelli, for the BOAK and the three major irrigation projects, in which the Ministry of Rural Development is confused with the "ALEXANDROS BALTATZIS", for the great project in the Tavronite in your Prefecture, for the project of the Platy River concerning Rethymnon and Heraklion and for the work of the Lithins concerning Lasithi Law. We will look forward to your answer with interest to see what stage, real, we are at today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. I'd like to make two introductory remarks about the Yunker plan. As you know, these are loans and guarantees for these loans. Its basic idea remains that - and this is the advantage for the country - it is a mechanism whereby it absorbs the additional risk faced by private investors, joint public and private investment and thus facilitates the smooth financing of an investment. Let me remind you of the second point, that the Regulation was adopted in June 2015 by the European Union. Also, on 22 July the Commission's Implementing Decision on the establishment of the investment project portal and the definition of its technical specifications and in February 2016 - that is, now - the final rules on the complementarity of Juncker plan with other EFSI activities were adopted. Now, EFSI, as you know, provides guarantees. The regulation provides essentially two investment windows, one for infrastructure and innovation and one for small and medium-sized enterprises. Obviously, there is no geographical distribution or other restrictions. Let us now go to the issue, with this data, what we have done as a government so far. First of all, what did we pick up? We received a list of two thousand projects, corresponding to total investments in the range of 1.3 trillion and, in general, in December 2014, the government had finally submitted a list of seventy-four projects, totalling 41.5 billion of which 9 billion were for the period 2015-2017. On the basis of the Regulation of June 2015, the EIB itself stated that these project lists are merely an intent, are a whish list, and in the light of the criteria of maturity and eligibility set, Member States must reconstruct their proposals on a zero basis. I would remind you that, in order to integrate the projects, economic and technical sustainability of the work of consistency with Union policies is needed - those who have a choice for smart, sustainable and non-exclusive growth - and to maximise, as far as possible, once again, the mobilisation of private capital. What did the government do? On 10 February a joint letter was sent to me and Tsakalotos to make the creation of the European investment project portal, in which until 31 March - that is to say - the first projects covering minimum maturity rules must be posted to the specific portals of Juncker plan. In fact - and this has been the work that has been done over the last six months - we have tried to coordinate with various bodies - with banks, the Greek Industrial Association, with many successive meetings - to identify areas and projects that can join this process. From this process that I have just mentioned, namely the successive searches through coordination with various bodies and the final list that we received from all ministries, we have chosen forty-three projects, of which eighteen are purely private on the basis of their maturity and the fulfilment of the eligibility criteria under the EFSI regulation. For these projects - and the posting of which will take place at the gate immediately - full maturity and support procedures are accelerated. I can present you with the list of projects. For example, it is forty-two projects amounting to 5.5 billion, which are the basis on which this process will begin. You know that this is an open procedure, this system is not closed. Projects can continue to be added according to their maturity. The basis for starting with the timetable - I repeat the basis and selection of projects that will form the basis of accession on the basis of the timetable of 31 March 2016 - are forty-two projects with a budget of 5.5 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, the Minister actually confirms what has been said. It could not do any more, as it is the official information of the European Commission and the Investment Bank. Greece has so far been in the six of the twenty-eight countries of the European Union which have not submitted any proposal for the Juncker package. No suggestions! Secondly, he indirectly confirms in his position that there had been advances from the previous government and a year and a half ago. The question is, in a year and a half that took place from November 2014 until today, what exactly has this government done. I think that, at administrative level, not too much. Knowledge is not its possible point, but at the same time it has made sure to push things back towards the banking sector. You'll tell me why I mention it? I mention this because, as the Minister explained, we are not dealing with a mechanism such as the NRP, that is, public funding, private sector involvement is also required, and so also with banks. With a system, therefore, which has led to a new recapitalisation and which the government has reintroduced a empty shirt with such a system, it is not very easy to operate the Juncker package. So, from now on, the government will be judged on two things. One will be to present them to the proposals that must be credible and serious and mature in this time that has elapsed since it has become a government. The second is to support these proposals from the private sector, not only from the European Investment Bank, because I have seen some statements from Mr Spirtzi, who were focused on the European Investment Bank. This requires a leverage of private capital as a whole. I would like to warn, in order to record in the Minutes, that there is a great risk if the banking system in the country fails to function fully and satisfactorily, and if the government fails to regain market confidence, the Juncker package for the country will remain a letter blank. I underline that. We risk, in other words, staying at zero not only for today, but also after a year and two years. I would therefore appeal to the Government to change its policy, to land in European and economic reality, because the declarations are at risk not only of itself, but of the country being left at point zero, and this is unacceptable with regard to the economic and social crisis, which we are experiencing today and which has been exacerbated in recent years, because the government, instead of improving things, has made things even more difficult.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this must not be the case that had the previous issue we were discussing. I must say, of course, that the European Union's Committee on Employment, the Greek Employment Directorate, was aware of the programme when it was created and funded in support of employment and entrepreneurship in the border regions. It is a mistake that you announced that it had not been informed. I say this because, at times, these matters go to court and the decisions are a burden on the citizens. It is a programme which supported too many businesses and was inactivated in the New Democracy, yes, but that does not mean that it could not have been reformed and gained ground, co-ordinated and complied with the regulations, which came after this programme. There was no de minimis in this programme. So what they had to do last decade was harmonise it with the regulations and, of course, get the approval of the European Commission. I say it because it's very important. And it is very easy, a programme that he supported, to say that he has been inactivated and today you say that he has been abolished. But I have the good thing that you say that a new framework will be sought. The Juncker package just as you said, and you have something to do with the relaunching of the economy, it has to do with what we say growth and employment, what we need. So no flaws are justified by anyone. You quite rightly said that by June when the whole story, the framework, the amounts, the funds, basically the regulation of the European Fund - May - had been discussed, the previous government had gone along the road it had to go. Of the two thousand works you said, it ended up in a hundred seventy - four. From there on, eligibility is to determine priorities. We say, then, that from June onwards we should have put the two feet on a shoe of ourselves, the government and all the other crews, so that we could be in the front line. Why? Because it's just competitive - you said it - it's lasting. But when others cover the sum of three hundred fifteen - let us say it theoretically - in total, even if we are fully ready for any amount, there will be no programme to join. So we would like to know more specifically whether your assessment - because today you say that the forty-two projects you are proposing are being posted, which I hope we will be informed of - is in line with Mr Mardas's report, which says that the country will be able to put 12 to 15 billion in this package of the European Investment Fund. What is your assessment now, which can be more realistic because you have all the data? In view of the fact that twenty-two other countries are already in, but there are only 70 billion - we must take this into account, so that much of the package has not been covered - what is your assessment? Do we have to do something to run things? Will there be a state guarantee in view of the situation of the banking system, so that there is no problem with the financing of investments that could have been integrated if the banking system had not gone through the hardship it has had over the last few years? Does he need such a state guarantee? Second question: do we have the possibility of giving it? Is this possible, in short,? Is there a bilateral agreement between Greece and the European Investment Bank in addition to the cooperation that the European Bank has with the Fund? Should we possibly also look at additional guarantees in the European Banking System? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u20	I should like to return to matters of delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u21	For the work of Crete, something needs to be said, because we are three from Crete here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u22	For the works of Crete, all right. I'm coming back to data. Let us start from the list of projects that we received, that is, seventy-four projects of 41.5 billion. I would remind you that the projects to raise and finance the twenty-two countries - if you look, most countries - are talking or about purely private projects or PPPs of some form, a school in Ireland, etc. So I ask Mr Hatzidakis: which one hundred and seventy-four projects were ready - because we have been late! - towards suspension and financing? Tell me one thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u23	...a year and a half ago and you're practically stuck there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u24	Let the Minister answer, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u25	I told you, the only fact that existed was a list of titles. Nothing more. No degree of maturity, no chance of funding, no possibility of implementation. So, we're talking about immature works. Secondly, the project started after July. So we are talking about the last six months where - I repeat - we started again from point zero, because we were looking for projects that could meet all three conditions, namely maturity, compatibility, the possibility of raising private capital. Therefore, criticism is not government projects. The government in this project coordinates, facilitates and tries to unify initiatives. The spearhead is not - I repeat - public projects because this is a guarantee mechanism. So, we tried to reach a point targeting the end of March 2016. I repeat that on 31 March they are posted to portals and they are seeking private or other funding. We have managed to get to the point where we can support the forty-two projects that form the basis - 5.6 billion - in a credible and efficient way. That was the job we've done in the last five months. I now come to the question of the situation of the banks and, in general, of the dystomia that may have existed in funding. It is assumed that this project, if it offers guarantees, firstly, is absolutely vital for Greece - one reason above - because the guarantee mechanism which dramatically reduces the risk and interest rates is its main advantage. Secondly, it obviously wants a strong banking system in order to form the basis for its funding. We can have a great deal of talk about the banking system, but I repeat that, after the August agreement, the recapitalisation of the banks was a key element in the government's policy. It was done successfully, because we only needed five and not twenty-five billion. This creates maturation and stability. Therefore, the time at which we have, on the one hand, a stable banking system and, on the other, mature projects to be financed, creates the basis on which the Younger plan can really be a mechanism to assist private investment, to integrate projects that are important for the country. And I think it will make it easier - with great success - for the purpose of both the programme and our desire to make the most of it. Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to make a list of projects for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Members of his party have tabled a proposal for a Committee of Inquiry on the investigation of the reasons for the imposition of bank holidays and capital restrictions, the signing of the 3rd Memorandum and the need for a new recapitalisation of credit institutions in accordance with Articles 68(2) of the Constitution and 144 et seq. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: This proposal will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting, printed and distributed to the Members of Parliament, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u27	The fifth under number 703/28-3-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Second Thessaloniki Mr.Akaterini Markos to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the "Papageorgiou" Hospital, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourth under number 675-17-2016 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliamentary of the New Democracy, Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Health, on the subsistence of the General Hospital of Rhodes and the problems of functioning in neural areas, is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The tenth under number 606/1-32016, a topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Grassaki, to the Minister of Health, on the need for a direct staffing of the radiodiagnostic clinic of the Hospital of Xanthi, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourteenth under number 621/7-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of the MP Elias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Estathias (Ephis) Georgopoulos - Saltaris to the Minister of Health, on the work of building the new wing of the hospital of Amaliad, is not discussed due to an obstruction of the Minister. The eighteenth under number 686/21-3-2016 topical question from the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the Emergency Department of the Rhodes Hospital, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The 20th first with number 625/7-3-2016 topical question by the Member of Parliament's Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, on the deficiencies in the hospital and in the public health sector in Lesvos, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The first question by number 2921/5-2-2016 question by the Member of Parliament's Attica Questions of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the establishment of an ambulance at the Rafina Health Centre, is not being discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The first question under number 705/28-3-2016 will be discussed now by MP Grevenes of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Beyala to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the authorisation of the rough accommodation of livestock establishments in Grevena Prefecture. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr Evangelos Apostolos. Mr. Beyala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, an important and vital problem, which has emerged in the livestock community of the whole country and not just of our prefecture, is the clearing circular, which came for Law 4056/2012 and concerns the rough accommodation. Law 4056/2012 stipulates that the livestock establishments are to be classified, depending on the type of construction and their form, in the following categories: First category, cuffed animal enclosures for which no building permit is required. The same law, in Article 1(2), states that clipping animal enclosures are livestock establishments consisting of materials such as stones or cementstones, wood, branches or plates or combination thereof, and serve extensive livestock farming or movable livestock farmers. Contrary to this article of the Act, the clarification circular of Law 4056/2012, FEK 52A, with Protocol No 1464/67426/13-2012, which states: ‘Substantially clipboards are defined as structures which have not carried a structural frame of concrete or structural steel or structural wood, they are made from materials such as stones, cement, wood, branches, sheet or a combination thereof, which serve the needs of extensified livestock farming or moving livestock farmers, can easily be disassembled and removed from the site of operation of the livestock establishment, do not have systems of handling liquid waste’. This is the circular, which clears the term ‘structural timber’ and creates the following problem: If the clipboard accommodation does not use structural timber, then what kind of wood will be used? Since the husked logs of trees, even the withdrawn columns of PPC or OTE traded, are considered as structural timber, meaning that a farmer, in order to have a clipboard accommodation and to exclude the issue of building permit, the timber he will use to be logs of trees from nearby forests, which is contrary to forestry legislation. Therefore, the clarification circular created the problem and contrasts with the spirit and the letter of the law. So, please ask, Minister, and I believe that you will give an immediate solution with the sensitivity that I know you possess for the problems of the livestock and agricultural world: what steps will you take to exclude this term and to provide a solution to a problem that is urgent and really topical, since on 12-9-2016 the deadline for issuing a licence expires, which we have given under No.4351/2015? I believe that the solution will be immediate, so that farmers can issue the necessary authorisations under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Beyla. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u30	Mr Colleagues, it is certain that the publisher of this circular, while he compiled it to specify the conditions of the law on the rough accommodation of the livestock world, whether he had not read the relevant directive or not he knew that there existed. And this directive, 1020 of 2002, was a directive jointly adopted by the former Ministry of Finance and Finance and related to technical requirements for large projects, particularly for regional projects. So how does the term'structural timber' come about when twenty-five - thirty-pages are mentioned in a circular, and the latter is, in fact, excluded from this procedure, why would it cause a problem? And that's not all. It is the other part, where you have a material - in this particular case you refer to the torso - that comes from the surroundings in which these clipboard accommodations are installed, let alone when the concept of clipping with the specific use of these materials generally gives another sense to the environment. So what, at least from our side, will be done immediately - and it is very simple - is to remove this phrase'structural timber' from the circular. It's something that's going to happen right away. We must, however, make it clear that we are not solving the problems, because until the 12-9-2016 extension, which has been granted and recognized by farmers, when we arrive at this time, we must be prepared to simplify the procedures for issuing building permits so that we can have the operating permits that the area needs. So there we must give a definitive solution, because these successive extensions of time-limits do not solve us, and at the same time we are constantly under threat of cutting down on the corresponding Community funds, because there is no authorisation. So what did we do from our side? The draft law on pastures, in a specific article, provides for an intervention for these accommodations, particularly in order to qualify for the simplification of the relevant procedures. Perhaps we will anticipate prefabricated or such facilities, which will make it easier to issue licences and operating licences so that we can resolve the problem. This, of course, presupposed the adoption of the law. Already, we have moved into the clipboard temporary pasture management plans. The situation, from now on, will be to complete the process of final management plans, through which we will respond to the great problem of sheep and goat production, because we regard it as a tool that can really contribute to the productive reconstruction of particular rural areas. And because there is an intervention - particularly from the point of view of those responsible for administering these issues - which in fact wants to eliminate the enormous responsibilities which they have had for the situation we are in, we shall be talking about the second. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We will say much more in dentistry, because yesterday we were surprised to have been fined by the controversy we had in the past few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Beyalas has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u32	Minister, I believe that your answer also satisfys my feelings, but also the feeling of farmers. I would just point out that the immediate thing you said is urgent, and you yourself pointed it out. I would like to say that you have pre-empted me, because in my denunciation I would like to ask you to simplify procedures for issuing permits for livestock and farm buildings. I am pleased that the Ministry is on a similar line and direction in terms of vital problems, which are important but also high costs. It is necessary, in the next period, to simplify the procedures for issuing all the agri-food establishments and at low cost, in order to give the message and signal to the agri-food world that we are not in their words, but in acts of substance, because these are essential acts, Minister. I have nothing more to add. I believe that I can pass on the satisfaction of the livestock world for this regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Beyala, and thank you for the economy of time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, we think that the livestock sector and, in particular, ovine and caprine animals, is the one that can help significantly - and particularly the countryside - so that we can really ensure social cohesion in the countryside, but, at the same time, our agricultural products can not only meet food needs but also compete abroad. Especially ovine and caprine animals have these possibilities. However, I would like to tell you where we have come to terms with management, which has been done over the years in particular in the past few years in the past few years. We have come to the following: we have come to the end of the year, every year, fines due to mismanagement. We had stopped at EUR 375 million for the years 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011. A few days ago we received fines of EUR 167 million for 2012, 2013. I mean, we have a total of 542 million. There is also the outstanding 2014, which we do not know if there will be a corresponding fine. In 2015, however, by putting in order and starting this process of management plans, pastures, eligibilitys and so forth, our country was not fined for the first time. They told us, 'you did your job well'. That was a painful process. It has, of course, had consequences for the simple reason that when you put things in a classroom, what matters is that we agree with the Rules of Procedure, that we do not have fines and start a new one. We'll do that. However, those who are shouting today should assume their responsibilities, because it is not just the financial corrections that I am saying to you - 1.5 billion - that is, the recoverys, that is another 1.5 billion. On this route, therefore, which will be painful, everyone must assume their responsibilities. We have started and are particularly sure that farmers and, more generally, farmers are going to fight to support their land.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The seventh under number 696/22-3-2016 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the Union of Centres Mr. Georgios Katsiantonis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the stagnation of the prospects for the development of medical tourism in Greece, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The first one under number 701/23-3-2016, a topical question for the second question of the MP of Heraklion, New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygeaki, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the orderly operation of the airport "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS", is not discussed due to an obstruction of the Minister. We enter the third under number 697-22-2016 topical question of the First Cycle of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the transfer of the Violin Academy outside Attica. The Deputy Minister of Interior will respond with responsibility for Civil Protection, Mr. Toskas. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am sure you know that Vilia is not the center of Athens, that it is the northwestern end of Attica, a village that loses population, does not win a population. The West Attica is perhaps the most polluted region in the whole country with polluting industries, with high unemployment, polluting the atmosphere. The Municipality of Mandra Idyllia, at the very end of which the village, the village of Villion, is located, is a municipality that has three hundred thousand forest acres, which protects every year. The very least that the State had done so far as a compensatory measure for the multi-faceted burdens - we have even known it very well and the waste and too many other doubling facilities in West Attica - was the operation of the Fire Academy in Vila. I know, Minister, that there is now a decision for the High School of Fire to establish and operate in Ptolemais. Personally, I and the Democratic Association are neither against Ptolemais nor any other part of the country that wanted to set up a school. However, I would ask you what prevents a decision from being made so that an annex to this school operates in Bilia. The facilities of Villion, which are school facilities, which were provided by the then Municipality of Villion for the purpose of operating the Academy, are both correct and directly operational. There will be no cost issues. What the people of the region are asking for is self-evident - not in contrast to Ptolemais, Kozani, Western Macedonia and no other place - to be able to operate through the higher school's curriculum - now we will normally have the computers of the candidate students - an annex to Bilia. I want, Minister, your positive response to this, and I think I know that I am not just expressing myself. I am also expressing the great proportion of the people of Mandra Idyllia, but also too many of the local bodies - and the municipality and the region. You know, you've been seen. We're waiting for your positive response.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, Mrs Christophilopoulou, the seat of the Fire Academy, according to the institutional framework, is Athens and there can be annexes of the Firehouse School, the Fire Academy, and other cities in Greece. In this context, various annexes of the Firefighting School and other cities, Tripoli, Thessaloniki, in Bilia and elsewhere have worked in the past. What is happening at the moment and what we are thinking about: data first is changing this year. For the first time, simple firefighters will enter, but also candidate officers of the Fire Corps through the pan-Hellenic exams. The system begins and is organized, so that there is a class in terms of the education and development of fire extinguishers. So new needs are being created. Within the framework of these new needs, we have sought spaces that meet these needs. We will immediately have training requirements for the five-month-old firefighters and for the officers, the anti-missiles coming out, the student will be four years. So you understand that we are leaving from the four-month courses we have had so far and going to longer education, more systematic, more modern, in the context of the demands and training made in the advanced countries. We are already monitoring how this training is being done in other countries. We are in agreement with other European countries to have a similar education in both our data and to get away from the large proportion of empirical knowledge that has been created so far. Indeed, the question is: Is the school going from Vilia and going to Ptolemais? No, that's not the case. The school in Bilia will be maintained. You understand what it means to be kept in this school band that you mentioned. I think the "school band" was old primary or high school. It was something like that. It's a small space that doesn't meet all the requirements. He's gonna need this band at the Villah. Already, we've made a announcement saying they're gonna run schools there. Already, there are at the moment a hundred five-year-old firefighters trained in Bilia. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I'm going to go on in my dentistry. The school in Bilia will therefore be maintained. I'll give you more details in dentistry. But there are also greater needs to be met by Ptolemais.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have listened carefully to what you have said to me. I come back to further clarification. Besides, you yourself told me that you would say more. I know, Minister, as you know, that the Western Macedonia Regional Council did not raise the matter. On the contrary. I think that his decision includes a part that says 'we do not see with dissatisfaction, neither the Villia annex nor anything else'. So we can find a solution that can give breath to the region of Western Macedonia, where the school will work, but there will also be a part, Minister, of the curriculum of this new higher school with the students who will enter with the computers. I think you can do that. I appreciate that the physical leadership will also have given you suggestions and he will have no problem accepting it. I would therefore like to see a commitment from you. You already told me that the Violin branch will continue to work. But what we want is for the Violin branch not only to host certain training on a case-by-case basis. We want it to be an appendix that also hosts part of the study program of the High School of Firefighting. We also think that this is appropriate for the infrastructure that exists, but above all it is appropriate for an area which, as I have said, - in general terms - has been diagnosed with too much. I think the state should continue to give this minimum compensatory. It's very little. Another time, I would ask you to discuss other major security issues in the region. But I came here, in particular, because I think we need to have a commitment from you that Villia will have a part of the first student fire extinguishers - so I will tell them - who will enter September and a part of their programme will also be in the Villion annex.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I would just like to make a comparison. We've got a room in Belia with 12 thousand square meters. We have a place in Ptolemais with thirty-seven thousand square meters. We have a chance to troops of three hundred people in Ptolemais. We have possibilities to produce food, to make food, to make food. There's a gym. There are auxiliaries spaces that can be used for the training of fire extinguishers. There are no such possibilities in Bilia. We are, however, committed to training in Belia - I was committed before this training began - the five-month obligation firefighters. At the moment this is happening, as I said before. One hundred and forty firefighters are trained. In the same facilities will be run by the Officer Training School, the Archipelagorios School. At the same site, taste firefighters will be hosted during their driving practice. Also, with the forthcoming establishment of the National School of Civil Protection, part of the educational programmes are planned to be implemented in this area. Therefore, it is not abandoned, the school is not transferred from Bilia. This space is not abandoned. Not everything can focus on the Villion region. The Ptolemais region has many challenges. It has surrounding industrial sites. It has the known facilities of PPC. It has spaces in which firefighters can be trained in the modern fire requirements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u43	The triumph doesn't?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u44	Not all needs can be served in Vilia. And you know what, I'll be a little tough. There's an effort of some fire extinguishers who have their interests in the area. They're pushing to stay there. They can't tow us the interests of those firefighters there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u45	It's none of my business.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u46	The interests of fire extinguishers are where the interests of the Fire Corps are, the interests of the country. We're working on these criteria. We are looking at the more general challenges. We're looking at the general needs. We look at how to train in the best way our firefighters who have so far been trained in many empirically. We are not giving up on Vilia, and that is why I wonder why this criticism and concern exist. However, we cannot limit our educational needs to the potential of a limited area of former primary school. That's the way we go. I do not think that with these communications, which we have received and which ensures the training that is being carried out so far, there is a cause for concern. If you want more details, because time is not enough, I would be happy to give you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I would like a clarification from the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u49	What clarification, Mrs. Christophilopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u50	He said the Minister would be tough on interests. The timely question has now been tabled, Minister, by me because there have been - and you know it very well - and protests from the world outwards, the world has come out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u51	Mrs Christophilopoulou, I am very sorry, but you could say that in your speech. You had the opportunity to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u52	Yes, Mr. President, but the Minister said the interests of firefighters. I have nothing to do with the interests of firefighters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u53	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u54	Good. Your opinion has been recorded. The fifth under number 677/18-3-2016 topical question by MP II Athens, the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the "delay of the inauguration of the Greek fighters of 1940 in Albania", is not discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. The tenth third, with number 615/3-2016, a topical question for the second cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerning the possible establishment of offices of a Turkish organisation in Greece, is not being discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The 15th under number 614/3-2016 topical question by MP II Piraeus, the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr.Ioannis Rados, Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the "creating climate of tension and the methods of the Turkish consulate in Thrace", is not discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. The sixteenth, under number 583/26-2-2016, a topical question by MP II Athens, the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on "the assignment of our name to the scopes", is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment. We continue with the third under number 699/23-2016 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the permanentisation of five-year-old fire extinguishers in the framework of homogenisation, the provision of the entitlements and the granting of maternity leave. Mr. Toskas will answer the question. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you well know, there are five-year-old firemen in the firehouse. Their offering, their utility and their necessity are more than imperative and obvious. They're absolutely needed by the Fire Corps. Article 98 of Law 4249/2014 provides for the inclusion of fire extinguishers five years of obligation in the Fire Corps, as long as they are deemed necessary by the service and under certain conditions in accordance with the medium-term budgetary strategy framework. Subsequently, applications for accession may be submitted following the adoption of a decision by the appropriate ministries. The five-year-old firefighters, however, are concerned with the benefits of unhealthy work, which, while they are treated as such, are not entitled to it, as are the maternity leave of women firefighters for five years, which are legally provided for, but are not entitled to the relevant leave of seventeen weeks. Then - and as long as not only are they considered useful, but are they absolutely necessary and necessary to join the Fire Corps - the five-year-old firefighters ask you: are you in your ministry's plans to adopt the relevant ministerial decision before the fire-fighting period, because committees need to be set up, the documents and others should be lodged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Red. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Red, thank you for the question. It is indeed a complex matter. An issue that concerns me at the very first time I went to the Ministry, the issue of the permanentization or safeguarding of the future of the various categories of fire extinguishers. Believe me, a more chaotic situation - years I've been serving in public too, thirty-five years I've been - I haven't seen. At times, as I said in the previous question, some firefighters were hired every few years. Of them, then, some of them became officers. At some point, five years of obligation firefighters began to be hired. At the same time, volunteer firefighters were hired. Thus, a race began to be completely accepted by these people to ensure their rights and to ensure their course, to ensure their bread. With L.39382011 and under the conditions at Law 42492014, as I have explained in their confederation, in their various unions that have visited me, the procedures have been specified by which part of the five-year obligation firefighters will be permanentised, provided that they fulfil the conditions laid down by the laws mentioned above. What does that mean? This means that as of January 2017, who complete their five-year term of office, those who met the conditions, i.e. when they were hired, were under the age of 40, had finished high school, had the conditions of grammar knowledge, will be recruited, as foreseen. There's a request to simulate earlier. The law leaves a window. However, there are no financial conditions in the 2016 budget to do so. There is a request for these people to begin the proceedings early, which we have agreed on, because in fact during the anti-missile period the Fire Corps cannot proceed with such proceedings. So I have explained to them that since May, now, after a month, the procedures will start and will begin to submit their applications, so that the procedures can proceed in a timely manner and when they are intended to be permanent. There is, however, a percentage of those people who do not meet the conditions, and for them there will be a renewal of the five-year term, so that they too will not lose their bread, but will also serve the needs of the Firehouse. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u59	The year 2017 is the year of permanentisation of five-year obligation fire extinguishers, but Law3938/2011 sets strict limits - for the integration process. I fully understand the financial reasons, but the adoption of a ministerial decision does not entail any financial costs and can be issued in April, the validity of which may begin on 1 May, because, as you quite rightly said, the committee must be convened, the supporting documents must be lodged and - most importantly - not to coincide with the fire-fighting period, because most of them are necessary for the Fire Corps, and that is what they want to hear from you, that the ministerial decision will be taken, in order to start the procedure for submitting the applications in question. Also, Minister, I would like you to tell us - if you know anything about maternity leave and allowance, at least at this point in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Red. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Red, as we both said, very soon, until May, the proceedings will have begun. Indeed, these procedures must start six months before the end of the procedure, and this will be done, they will start beforehand, so that they do not coincide with the anti-missile period, as we have said. I also understand the anguish of these people to ensure that they are absolutely necessary for the Fire Corps and especially for the anti-missile period. So there's nothing different. What I have told them is what we have discussed with their representatives. As far as the benefits of heavy vehicles drivers are concerned, someone who is not a driver cannot receive a heavy vehicle allowance. There are comparable decisions, there are decisions by the General Accounting Office of the State, which I have here in front of me, according to which a driver who has no driver's specialty cannot receive a driver's allowance. With regard to the permits of the mothers of five years of obligation, licences shall be granted in accordance with the conditions laid down by their insurer. Indeed - I will go back to what I said at the outset - the situation is chaotic and we are trying to rationalise it. These are simple modernizations, the ones we are doing. It should have been a long time ago, in order to normalise the situation, because, for example, the commander of a fire station has had the permanent firefighters available all week and weekends, but it does not have the five-year obligation, because they are under another employment regime. Such distinctions also exist with regard to the leave of mothers of five years of obligation. There's a very complicated situation. We're trying to straighten her up. We believe that it is slowly taking serious steps in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we proceed to the debate on the next topical and urgent question, let me make two announcements. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, twenty-two students and students and an educational attendant from the 12th Old Faliro Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after being informed about the history of the building and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 62nd High School of Athens (B' Department). The House welcomes them. The sixth question under number 698/23-2016, first question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the amendment on the regulation of issues of the Greek Horse Horse Horse Routing Organisation (WIPO), is not discussed after consultation of the questioner with the Minister responsible. The seventeenth under number 545/15-2-2016 topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zarulias to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation in the EKA, is not being discussed. Next is the fourth question (No 704/28-3-2016) of the First Cycle of the Member of the Ionian Parliamentary of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the risk of the national network of Amphilokia - Lefkada - Preveza - Igoumenitsa. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction will answer Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, once again in recent years, with all the governments, the JRC has pointed out to the House the danger of the national network - if it can be called this, we call it a'slaughterhouse', carmanila - from Antirio to Iannina, but especially the one that unites Amphilos with Lefkada, Preveza, Igoumenitsa and Corfu. We've been talking about a road that has been built for sixty years. There are no repairs all this time, just some patches, squeezes literally, and as a result this road network today does not meet the current needs of drivers and passengers. We have daily accidents. With a little rain, there's an infinite squirrel, and if someone crosses it, they'll see cars that have been derailed and come out on the side of the road. Many times these accidents become fatal accidents. For example, at a point of three miles out of Amphilosia we have mourned six human lives in recent years and we are talking about a distance of about fifty meters that do not have cliffs and cars derailing are driven to the cliff. This shows the criminal responsibilities of all governments over time, which have not made any repairs to this network. We're talking about a network that doesn't have a separating sediment anywhere. The lines in the centre and side of the road, which are only in one direction, have literally been erased since the years. In recent times, it has been noted that the bushes and trees have not been cut off and have entered the roadside, with a number of signs reducing visibility over 50%. Minister, we ask for specific measures to be taken. Don't tell us, as everyone else has said, that the Ambrose-Aktio road line is under construction. He's a bridge of Artas, he's cancerd. It should have surrendered since 2013. Now we're talking about 2019 and we're watching. And if that happens - and you know it personally - and again this road network will remain in operation and unite several areas. Therefore, we, as a Communist Party of Greece, as well as residents, want concrete answers and concrete measures to serve the needs of the inhabitants of the wider region.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I endorse what Mr Moraite, my good old friend and compatriot, said. I fully understand his anxiety and I do not say it in a pretext. Because these roads really became a carniole - unfortunately - with the responsibility of political leaders at all times. There are delays, which are not always the responsibility of the central authority - to be honest - because delays in expropriation are born, of the claims of landowners in the areas that need to be expropriated, of the stiffness of the Archaeological Service many times. Thus, they delay projects that are not only projects that play a crucial role in the development of western Greece, but mainly are projects which - since they have not gone forward - create the conditions for a lot of blood and sadly blood for young people. Here, too, there are responsibilities for all of us. So there is an abandonment of the national network over the years. Because it is not only that the major projects have not gone ahead, that is, the Olympian road and is Ionian road, but that maintenance is many times delayed, the lack of which also raises additional risk issues. So I would like to say to Mr Moraite, who is asking and really fighting, like all the politicians and all the Members - I would have done so, and I would have done so, perhaps in a much more intense way at some time, as a questioner Member of the region - that these projects should have been completed in 2004 and, unfortunately, we are in 2016 and have not been completed. The government's commitment - and I say it to record it, Mr Moraite and everyone's ears - is for within 2017, with the advancement that has been made. We have already recruited the Ministry of Culture to resolve issues created by the Archaeological Service. We have asked the Ministry of Justice to precede the expropriations for expropriations. They are two parameters, which I honestly have to tell you, which, to a large extent, is the cause of great delays, together with many times with the lack of funding or claims of the companies that had undertaken the projects. I therefore believe that, in 2017, all this axis that will link Greece, this side, with the Egnatia Road and Europe, will be completed. This will, in a way, balance out what we say "Greece is batting towards the East", a complaint from our region is that there are different treatments and so this entire axis remained, in a way, in the second and third degrees. I think it is time, after all these delays and all these fair protests and objections from all of us, finally to go ahead with these projects and to conclude on a specific time horizon, for which I have already been placed and to which I have referred, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u67	Mr Minister, unfortunately, like the previous speakers, you have not answered the crucial issue. Look, because the JRC traveled two days ago in the Prefecture of Aetolakaranania on all the axes under construction, it's a part of what you said about expropriations and archaeology. For example, on the Ambracian-Aktius axis, since this debate is opening, these are not the reasons why. It is that you, like the previous ones, have made presents to the construction conventions and it opens them up the appetite, so that they can ask for even more. Mr Kurubli, in particular on the Ambros-Aktiou road line, the manufacturer requests an additional EUR 25 million, EUR 5 million for each piece. So that's the problem. With the revision of the contracts, several million were granted to these groups, while, on the other hand, we have to say it - all over the construction sector, the cuts have been smashed. Although these large groups took the projects before the price crisis, the cuts today are in the middle and demanding above. And I would mention to you, for example, that the companies "ELLAKOPOR", "AVA" and "TERNA" took several million for the parts of the national road that had been taken in the auctions. We therefore say clearly, Minister, that you must respond to the maintenance of the existing national network, because it is, in fact, a carniol. It's a sacrificial. We grieve victims. Of course, we know what's going on. You cut the budgets on the part of the state, transfer these to the local administration and regional administration that claim they have no money and eventually the road remains in this situation, and not only there but in other regions, and we have these results. We believe that the people's movement in the region, and the people themselves, should take the case in their hands, fight for the streets, not for those who are handed over to big capital with tolls unreasonably. Because, unfortunately, the popular layers pay these roads both in construction and in use, since it is full of roads built by tolls. We say that these projects must now be carried out. And as I said, Minister, in my protology, if the Ambraia-Aktio road corridor is built, a large part of the existing road network will unite whole regions, whole towns. Therefore, maintenance must now be done. That's what you need to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u69	I sincerely want to tell my fellow Member that it must allow us to have the same agony for roads that we, which all Greeks are walking, are walking with our relatives, our friends. That's where I come from. Honestly, I am not hiding you, Mr President, as a Member from the region when I was coming down to my home this weekend. Such anguish holds us all. I think that we all have the same interest in these projects at last, which have been delayed. I shall not go into the same reasons again. The Ambrosia-Aktio road is a road, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, which is necessary to move forward. Already at the moment it has moved to 4/5, and the relevant ministry is trying to resolve issues that I have identified, especially these are such issues. The remaining money will be found. However, we are being delayed by these kinds of issues, in order to move forward and complete this project, which, in fact, will not solve, as we all agree, questions of development. The road to the piece Amphilogy - Vonica is even more dangerous, it is even more slippery. I would like, therefore, to conclude by saying that this commitment is a given one. I would like to assure Mr Moraite and all the people in the wider region who are following us that at last the government has put these great projects on top of priority. We want to complete them in order for the people of this region to feel that there is no different Greece whose life will be jeopardised by such roads. Now, as far as maintenance is concerned, my dear colleague, as you know, it is the responsibility of the regions. The regions have this responsibility. To date, I think that a number of interventions are being made. I have not been asked for any other assistance to be done more. If need be, we're here to exhaust all the margins and help. In such a spirit, I would like this debate to take place, because it is a matter of life, primarily with lives and then with growth. On this issue I think we all have to recognise that we have the same sensitivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 20th under number 661/15-3-2016 a topical question from the Member of Parliament Evros of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Purchassias, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the reintroduction and restoration of a wage-saving measure based on European regulations, is not discussed due to an impediment by the honourable Member. The eleventh question under number 567/22-2-2016, in the context of a second question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the imposition of municipal fees by the Municipality of Patras on professional establishments in the area by decision of the City Council, is not discussed due to a blockade by the MP. We enter the twelfth year under number 466/1-2-2016 a second question from the Attica MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Cassidiari to the Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the "millions shared by the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL to the bankrupt parties". The question will be answered by the Minister of Interior, Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis. Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. This question, although submitted on 29-1-2016, more than two months ago, remains permanently up-to-date, because in fact all the governments and the current SYRIZA-ANEL conflict share millions of euros in all bankrupt parties. Of course, I repeat that the party I represent, the Golden Dawn, with an anti-constitutional law, does not take half of the euro from the public funds. And it is an honour that at this time when the people are falling, we are not getting public money, but we are operating perfectly, even though we do not receive any state subsidies. The delay, of course, in answering this question serves us well. It serves political purposes, which I shall analyse. And it is a great mistake - it does not work in this way - to be at the same time, at the same time, in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and with two months' delay, that the Minister should answer this timely question. And I must be in committee and in plenary. During the period when the question was tabled there were some statements. A decision had just been made to give EUR 4.520,000 to all parties except Golden Dawn. Astronomical amount. A little later, however, Mr. Voutsis appeared publicly, President of Parliament, and said that there was a mistake. He said that it is not only 4.5 million to be given to the parties for this year, but 15 million to be given to the parties. The amount that goes beyond all reasonable, at a time when the insurance policy, which the people are impoverishing, is EUR 4.5 million being made at EUR 15 million. And he had even announced a specific law, through which this 'correction' would be made. This is not a correction, of course. It is a crime to distribute the wealth of Greek citizens, the property of Greek citizens, to the parties. So I ask: will the parties continue to finance the year 2016 at about 5 million, or will we finally have the allocation of EUR 15 million to the parties? My second question - and I will extend to my dentistry too - is whether the crime with the 40% inconsistency of the state subsidy to the parties, through which the immediate bankruptcy of the parties in the New Democracy and PASOK is prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u72	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Cassidy, Mr Colleague, you are a little unfair to the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior. There was no other reason - otherwise I would not come today - but obligations that create, as you can see, the difficulty of the Minister coming. And he has to come, I confess. But I want you to understand that there are other kinds of activities that sometimes make things difficult. As far as the question of the funding of the parties is concerned, this is a major political issue. And this must be a serious debate on all of Parliament's wings, if we really want the parties with anonymous companies - so they must be financed by private companies - or if we want the parties with democratic institutions, where democracy has a certain cost. So you mentioned and ask first whether 15 million will be in 2016. The budget for 2016 provides for the total amount of money to be 6.5 million. That is the reality today, and that is what I can convey to you in all clear and absolute terms. So there are no 15 million. You know very well that funding started from 50 million and has gradually been limited to 6.5 million. However, this is an issue which I believe needs to be discussed. And it needs to be discussed straightforwardly and honestly by everyone about how we want parties to operate, which, as you can see, have some operational needs. Because either we choose other ways of financing, where you realise that dependencies will be even bigger, or we will have decided to find a common place for all of us together to find out what the real needs that the state needs to cover as far as the functioning of the parties are concerned. You talked about the inconvenience. This is indeed a matter that concerns us. I do not hide from you that we are thinking of finding a more correct and reliable way of managing this issue. The most sensible thing would be to dismantle completely. As you know, however, there are also workers in these parties who need to think about them. Perhaps it would be a gold incision to limit it to 20% - I say one case - to ensure at least that the workers are covered. From there on, the issue is open. We understand the objections that exist in various ways in this case. The question is being considered. What I can tell you is that there is a serious concern, at least to limit it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u75	You have just referred to workers for whom we certainly must be sensitive. We did not, however, see such sensitivity to the private sector workers, who were literally inherited from the memorandum measures, which your government also voted for and led to the closure of tens of thousands of businesses and led to the unemployment of millions of our fellow citizens. The constitution says that all citizens are equal to the law. It is not possible for the party, the small businessman, to accept all this pressure from the tax, the memorial measures, to put a lock on his business and the corruption parties to be irresponsible. This is unacceptable and unconstitutional. You make a mistake when you say that we have state funding to the parties so that they are not parties to anonymous companies and are not financed by dark interests. How many millions were collected from the public funds in PASOK and New Democracy, when the millions of "SIEMENS" entered in black bags and Tsukatos put them in the PASOK funds? Then there was no state funding? Of course, there was and he didn't stop anyone from getting black money. Because where there is a lot of money, where millions of people share them, there is corruption and the need for more black money is born. Therefore, your argument does not stand in any way. Even when the parties are funded by the state, even then, they get black money from shipowners, industrialists and foreign companies. In this respect, no investigation was carried out by the ‘SIEMENS’. There is no criminal responsibility for all those involved in this case. We have also seen extrajudicial compromises and with the approval of your Government in the committee called by Mr Stournaras and all parties made him oil, except for the Golden Dawn. The answer to the question that arises, whether or not state funding to the parties should be abolished, has been given by the Golden Dawn Association, which we do not get a franc from the state funds and yet we are fully committed. We have party offices throughout Greece and we are organizing events throughout Greece. We are a party that works perfectly, without even taking half of the euro from the public. So here is the answer to whether the parties should be financed, especially at a time when the people are falling and literally confronted with tolerance and impoverishment. Of course, because we are an institutional party and because we operate on the basis of proposals and a specific programme, we have tabled a very specific proposal for a law, which I invite you to bring here to the House for a vote, where we say: abolition of state funding for the parties. The sum of 6.5 million you are referring to is once again challenging at this time. This money, which exists in the state funds, should be given to subsidise motherhood, in order to combat fertility, to be allocated equally to the young Greeks born. This is the proposal of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u76	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Cassidy, you said at the moment that the Golden Dawn with the law that has been passed does not receive funding. Before the law was passed, however, the law received it. I too think it was right to receive it because I think that the parties should have a funding. So I say to you that there have also been such issues and phenomena to which you are referring. And here we need to find a transparent way to allow political money, which supports parties or politicians, to be controlled. And in this we are all responsible for finding the right way, the safest way, how it can ensure that these procedures are transparent in order to limit both parties and individuals. Now, with regard to what you have said about the workers, I think we have the same sensitivity, at least, to workers' rights and we have sometimes defended these rights, each one of us in his way. The government is trying in every way to ensure that these kind of workers' rights are guaranteed. However, we must bear in mind that in this particular case there are family workers who need to be aware of them. That is why I told you that we agree or consider positive that there should be a restriction on the incompatibility only with the payroll of workers. I do not think we are giving them any privileges more than other workers. I should like to add nothing more, Mr President, but what Mr Cassidy has said about transparency in the funding of the parties. It is an issue if we agree that for the parties the state must have a funding ratio for the parties. And a second question is the transparency that must be in possession of all this transaction from wherever it comes. This is an issue that we need to discuss and find the common place all together because it concerns all together. It concerns the credibility and trust of the citizen in the political world. And I think that in such a spirit, regardless of our political and ideological differences, there are some issues on which we can agree and find a common place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The sixth question under number 67317-3-2016, on the lack of a strategic plan to deal with the refugee problem, delays in disbursement of European funds, and failure to implement the law granting Greek citizenship, is not discussed due to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction's failure, in particular due to his absence abroad. The seventh question under number 680/21-3-2016, raised in the context of the second question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks, Dimitrios Kammenos Kammenos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the removal of Greek citizenship by relatives of the former USSR, is not discussed due to the absence of his Minister abroad. The eighth Question No 678/21-32016 by Mr Kegeroglou on the publication of the award of supplies, services and projects to deal with refugees - immigration - is not discussed due to the absence of his Minister abroad. We continue with our second question with No 1512/27-11-2015 question of Athens, Mr. Georgios Amyras, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the closure of industrial plants that pollute the Asyus, following the decision of the Council of State. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Ioannis Tsironis. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Dear Minister, nature built the river, the ancient Greeks named Asopo and even a divine status, characterizing the son of God Poseidon and the modern Greeks turned him into a toxic dangerous hub. The roots of evil are found in a junta decree, in 1969, which characterized Ashos as a conduit for the supply of treated sewage. And today, half a century later, the situation in the area is known, people cannot use water, pollute the waterline. However, since that incomprehensible public administrative act to date, almost half a century later, we have reached the historic decision under number 3943 of the First Division of the Council of State. This decision, therefore, requires all the co-legislative Ministries to immediately discontinue the operation of those units which do not have a article processing system or if they have not been legally operated and call upon the State and you Government, without any further delay, to take the appropriate measures to restore the ecosystem that has been disturbed. Minister, I have five specific questions: Firstly, when, of course, you intend to proceed with the immediate closure of industrial plants which are illegally operating or do not have the dams processing sector and are constantly polluting the Asyus? Will you implement the decision of the Council of State? You will proceed with the closure of such units or part thereof. Secondly, what project planning exists in order to resolve the issue, even in the medium term, of Aesop's pollution. Thirdly, what concrete measures will you take, Minister, in order to restore the system of the region. Fourthly, what is the final amount of fines collected over the years from the polluting units and the fines have been imposed either by the Ministry or the Region's environmental inspectors. Fifthly, whether or not the Presidential Decree, which will characterise the river basin as a special environmental aid area, will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Amyras, you know that our government and my party, the Ecologists - Greens, have too much sensitivity. Of course, you have made a very beautiful leap from antiquity to utopian law and from the hunant law to today. But, over there I was waiting, because I also know your sensitivity, to hear from the junction until today what went through, because you know very well that there was a period in which the state of scandalously concealed the problem and not only concealed the problem, but had driven the inspectors' chief overseer back then because he dared and said so, dared and did her job and were hunted in court too. So we have reached the day when, at last, we come the State and the Region - in its honour - to agree, firstly, that there is a problem and we need to resolve it. Of course we did not expect this Council of State. Fortunately, then, we have begun actions. I will mention them as briefly as possible in the time available. Of course, it is not my responsibility to close operations, because it is another ministry. So I can't answer when the illegally operating operations will be closed. You know, on this issue we'll be ruthless, despite the fact that I'm answering on behalf of another minister. However, to make it clear - and you know - that the closure of businesses is not the solution to the problem, because at the moment, the simplest for one businessman - and they do so often - is to close the dirty shop here, to save the fines and everything, and they open up with a different label next to - parallel to another shop, which continues and pollutes. This perpetuation of the problem with 'I close - I am closing, I am closing - I am opening' does not solve any problem. It is therefore a question of operating companies taking their responsibilities in this area. With regard to project planning, I mention titles. It's important that biological physicochemical cleansing, which is in the establishment of the business park, not HYTEA. For the first time, we dare and agree that the Hazardous Waste Landfill area needs to be put in the area. In the previous government only two HYTEAs have been spaced. One in Megalopoli and the other in Ptolemais, which is where we have Ptomea, so the residents eat the whole musket of Greece. We in this disagree and place five KYTEAs across Greece, where there is industrial activity. Of course, the right spatial planning and the establishment of the business park is important so that we have the necessary infrastructure. As far as treatment is concerned, treatment has two aspects. One is enrichment of the aquifer. We will proceed immediately with the new NSRF in this "frozen" project of enrichment of the aquifer from Crete. Furthermore, we are moving forward immediately, because the polluter pays, in cooperation with the polluter companies, to start historical waste, first with ELVAL. So we've started this work in collaboration with the IGM. The fines imposed have been from 2004 until now 7,000,000 of our weak services and 700,000 have been imposed by the region. As far as - as finishing - for the Special Environmental Aid Zone, the Council of State does not only consider this tool, it also proposes this instrument, it is also in dialogue, but I think that, with its position in the Business Park, the problem is solved. To close, only by working together between all the actors and the IGM and the state and the region, with alliances between all and the businesses - because I say again, to put them in the game so that they don't run away - it is obvious that it is possible to solve the problem and not simply by concentrating some, shut them down and get them out.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, of course - and I do not recognize - that in the decades between the junta and today the governments that have produced and most of the parties have huge responsibilities, because they have not made a flag of the sustainable environmental policy that this country should pursue and the rivers considered them to be a normal channel to throw anything away, beyond of course their profits or their poaching in what they do. I have to tell you that last week in the Subcommittee on Water Resources, for hearing, among other things, Father Ioannis Economicides, who had been telling us for so many years that no one recognized the problem in the common view, but all of them knew and did nothing. So he is protesting and fighting for the right of residents of a region to be able to drink water from the tap, without suffering cancer, to be able to wash and wash, without suffering sickness, water, and use water like all citizens in that country. Erin Brokovic, the famous film by Julia Roberts, had even come because she had also done similar activist actions in California, in the Hinkley area, for the waterline that had then of course been polluted by hexavalent chromium. Minister, we need commitments, we need specific timetables. So I say to you that the service note of the Department of Environmental and Spatial Planning of the Decentralised Administration of Thessaly and Central Greece, a protocol number 4861/224675, shows that no study has been submitted to the Decentralised Administration concerning measures to rehabilitate and restore the region as a whole. At least that was until the 4-12-2015 we asked them and also got an answer. Today, four months later, what is it? The Decentralized Command will join the ball? She has responsibilities, not just your ministry. Furthermore, the same document shows that its service is unable to know how many fines have been imposed and to whom, because there is no communication with your Ministry. So how are we going to deal with such a big, acid, I would call it a national environmental problem when the two main players at least three or four, if you like, do not communicate? They are, of course, the polluting industries and those that do not pollute, they are the Ministry, the Government and the Decentralised Administration. When these two bodies, the latter, do not communicate properly, how will you deal with the problem as a whole in depth? To conclude, I will tell you this: we are trying to force the government and you personally, despite the great sensitivity you have on environmental issues, on a more green policy, adapted to reality, not 'green horses', realistic, which gives a perspective to both the industries and the inhabitants and to those who believe that the environment is the added value of this country. I conclude by saying that we have many in Greece, unfortunately. Kalamas River in Epirus also begins to become a much larger one, because it is also a greater river, Asyus. What are you going to do, Minister? Are we going to see these in total? We are willing to help, because for us the environment - I say it again - is the great investment for the future of this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u85	Mr Amyras, you really raise a very important issue and I recognise sensitivity, as do you - and I thank you - you also recognised ours. First of all, you quite rightly said at the end that the problem is not just the river, but it is much wider. I would remind you that the greatest crime in the Assohos was not committed by the river waste water, by the pipelines the illegal and the intertwined, but by the fact that waste water fell into the old drilling of farmers, and there the crime was harder to catch and it was very difficult to reinstate. It is therefore a fact that we are starting at the moment in a coordinated way. In January this wide-ranging meeting - of course, following the reply you mentioned to me - was held with Mr Bakoyannis, our Ministry, with the services, so that the working party set up and working intensively can be coordinated. This three-month period has passed, and we have good results, as to what we want to do. Right now we're looking for the resources for who's going to fund this business park. We have already found the resources for the enrichment project. It's, like, locked in the N.R.R. Today, in fact, we are waiting for a meeting with ETVA to see what is going to happen with finance from the point of view of entrepreneurs. You remember Papagiannis and he really deserves the House to hear the name of Father Economy, because he is one of the true fighters of the environment in the region. I would like to conclude, however, because something you said at the end, I think, is extremely appropriate and I think it has to do with the debate that we had in this House two days ago on corruption and complexity. The President of Officerial Response, at the beginning of his secondary speech, said that the government is trying to shift the country's real problems to the "several" problem of corruption and interlocutory. I did not expect a more scandalous wording, because personally long before I became a stateman - and I was an unemployed citizen - I knew that whatever problem this country had, since the depopulation of a country, from agricultural subsidies, from our hydro-headed state, from all of this, it is a manifestation of corruption and interlocutory. And instead of cutting the cord out of all this vicious past - which we do not denounce to touch any party, because it goes far beyond New Democracy and the PASOK and EPE and the junta, because it is old the problem and rooted - instead of hearing that this problem, at least those young politicians who are here, will fight it - and, of course, what you have said - is supposedly a problem, corruption and complexity. All these years businessmen have earned corrupt civil servants to cover up these scandals. You know how many times we have denounced this from Step and Justice, i.e. that environmental crime goes to justice and never swims. Our own inspectors, all fourteen and everyone, denounce the fines, risk their lives, do a heavy profession without a fine, and when crime arrives in justice, it never ends. You tell me why the businessman shouldn't behave like this and cooperate. So our problem is there. We'll shut it down. I accept your cooperation to see and fight it, but we must first see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The ninth under number 681/21-3-2016 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the review of the amount of the fine imposed by the Labour Inspectorate and the IKA - EKA for any undeclared worker, is not discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible abroad. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Before entering the legislative agenda, I propose that we take a short break, about ten minutes, and continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions: (a) Directives 2014/107/EU and (EU) 2015/2060, (b) Directives 2014/86/EU and 2015/121/EU, (c) Directive 2013/61/EU and other provisions’. It is not the Members of Parliament from all the parties, but they are the special speakers of almost all the parties, and I would like us to make a consultation on the procedure for today's sitting. From what I saw in the committee's minutes, with a large majority the parties support the bill and the speakers in the committee were few. I say all this so that we can finish, if possible, by five o'clock, because many of you are taking part in the committee on the immigration bill coming as an emergency. I propose that the draft law should be discussed in a uniform manner and that the speaking time should be reduced as follows, of course always if not many speakers. It goes without saying that there will be tolerance: for the rapporteurs and special speakers in ten minutes, for the parliamentary representatives in eight minutes - also with tolerance, because we will not have many speakers and I do not expect many to be - and for the Members, depending on how many people will be registered, the time will be seven minutes or we will propose a small reduction in time. The amendments so far are three, or rather two have been incorporated. It is three, two in the short term and one in the long term. Of the two deadlines, one of the things I saw would probably be universal acceptance. It is for the withdrawal of cars where a margin is given. I think we'll all support her. The delay is about something about water resources. I haven't seen her. You'll see it. I would also ask the Minister, when the time comes, to tell us what is being accepted and what is not accepted. So, if we move on, I estimate that we will be done at about five o'clock so that you can go to those who attend the committee who starts at five o'clock and draw up the serious immigration bill, which comes as an urgent one. Do I have your first consent? As I said, there will be relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u88	With one tolerance of time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u89	I have already said that, and I think there will be no many Members who will be registered, and so perhaps you will also have the normal time. I'm just saying it's about 17:00, so we're done. So, as a first agreement, we unanimously accept it. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mrs Catherine Papanatziou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law we are called upon to discuss in Greek legislation Directives 2014/107, 2015/2060, and Directives 2014/86 and 2015/121, as well as Directive 2013/61. The bill consists of three parts. The first part shall contain Articles 1 to 7 in Chapters A’ and B’, Part 2, Article 8 and Part Three, Article 9. Chapter A' includes Articles 1 to 4 which introduce Directive 2014/107 and amend Directive 2011/16 on compulsory automatic exchange of information in the tax field and which was incorporated into Greek law by the provisions of Law 4170/2013 and in particular the provisions of Articles 1 to 25. At the same time some of them are repealed or amended. Subsequently, Chapter B' includes Articles 5 to 7 with the incorporation of Directive 2015/2060. Therefore, Article 5 repeals Directive 2003/48 on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments and which was incorporated into Greek legislation with the provisions of Articles 3 to 13 of Law 3312/2005 and which expires from 1-1-2016. In the second part now and specifically in Article 8, Directives 2014/86 of the European Union and 2015/121, which in turn amend Directive 2011/96, are incorporated into Greek legislation. They concern the common tax system applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries of different Member States. Here the amendments aim to retain tax on the source, but at the same time to provide for double taxation. Nevertheless, the benefits of the directive should not confer tax advantages on groups with parent and subsidiary companies located in different Member States compared with groups located in the same Member State. As it is known that, in the form of hybrid loans, several companies seemed to be granting some type of loans and, in substance, transferring profits from one company to another, with the direct effect of not taxing distributed profits between Member States. Finally, the third part of Chapter B' in Article 9 is incorporated into national law Directive 2013/61 amending Directives 2016/112 and 2008/118 on the modification of its tax regime and the application of the provisions on the scope of the territorial application of the VAT and on the French outermost regions. Article 10 provides for the validity of the provisions of this Article. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that cross-border tax evasion and tax fraud together with undeclared or untaxed incomes are of great interest and reason for the situation but also because of the intensity of their frequency. Immediately, of course, there is also a reduction in national tax revenues. On the basis of the above, there is an urgent need for more efficient collection of taxes, both for reasons of transparency and tax justice, but also for reasons of increased tax revenue. In this effort, it is also a useful tool for the automatic exchange of information aimed at combating tax fraud and tax evasion. The current legislative framework already defines the compulsory automatic exchange of information, but only for specific categories of income and capital, mainly non-financial. However, this is not enough, especially in this period, as the existing Union administrative cooperation instruments have become ineffective in the fiscal sector and in the fight against cross-border fraud. Here, with the incorporation of Directive 2014/107, accelerating the process in order to ensure a comprehensive and coherent response to the phenomenon of tax avoidance and tax fraud aimed at reducing costs for tax administrations. One of the most important elements of the bill is the extension of the scope of the automatic exchange of information, according to which Member States should require financial institutions to apply the reporting of data in accordance with the rules laid down in the common benchmark. The aim of the above is, therefore, to deal with situations of exclusion of funds, while facilitating the tax administration of the Member States, in order to identify taxpayers by complying with tax legislation and to properly assess the possibility of avoiding tax evasion without requiring any further investigation. The importance, therefore, of automatic exchange of information as a means of combating cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion has recently been recognised at international level. At the same time, the common standard for automatic exchange of information was developed by the OECD and is implemented by almost all the countries participating in the Agency, while the first exchange of information is expected on 30 November 2017. Another point we must stand down is that the categories of financial institutions and accounts incorporated are structured so that the possibility of avoiding taxpayers from making a statement of transferable assets or investing in financial products which are not covered by the scope of the directive is limited. The information exchanged shall include the balances of accounts in order to avoid the division of accounts, as well as the detailed account movement tab, which shall not refer to ordinary withdrawals or deposits, but only to interest, dividends, returns on insurance contracts, and to the sale of assets such as real estate, shares, etc. As defined by the directive, information transmission bodies will be banks, financial companies, collective investment undertakings and insurance companies. At the same time, it should be noted that the information is provided for natural persons, but with the signature of the real beneficiary's identification for legal entities, whose income comes from interest or from any other income generated by financial assets, dividends and income from the transfer of shares, income from movable assets, as well as income from insurance, banking and other financial activities. However, it is worth mentioning that these arrangements have a double considerable profit for the tax authorities and national revenues, as the information is directly led to control and not to the contrary, so that a tax is found, which was unknown before, while at the same time saving time the revenue of the authorities. As a long-term effect of the above-mentioned tax compliance, as indicated in a 2007 IRS study, where it is argued that the existence of an automatic data transmission system to the tax authorities raises this percentage by more than 50%. The automatic exchange of information therefore opens the way for collecting taxes, as I have pointed out in my speeches in the committees, for the authorities to take advantage of the volume of information and make use of it. We have talked several times about the need to broaden the tax base, since, yes, taxation is a sustainable source of revenue, but not only by increasing rates, and it needs long-term planning and exploitation of all the tools we have or will have at our disposal. It is a social need, therefore, to extend the tax base through the identification of the missing tax matter, which will maximise the tax revenues of the State and indeed of the current economic circumstances. The government has more to give than samples of goodwill and practice regarding the hunting of information and its exploitation. At the same time - and I close with this - an important complementary step towards the repatriation of capital and a more comprehensive picture of the fight against tax evasion and broadening of the tax base will be the enclosure and a stable system of tax rates. We will therefore work on this and with the aim of alleviating the world which was typical of their obligations, with the Greek state and the tax authorities, but that is precisely why they were the only ones who had the burden of taxes, since no one has so far been able to chase the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too. I would remind you that any fellow Members who want to join in order to speak will be e-mailed until the end of Mr Besiropoulos' speech, which I call on him to come to Stepma. Here, Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech from the procedure followed in this bill, which was suddenly introduced in plenary yesterday. It is clear that not only are there no programming in the parliamentary work, but there is no respect for parliamentary procedures. Most of the bills come under the urgency procedure and under summary procedures. There is complete ataxia and confusion. At the same time, the ministers of government show an unprecedented contempt for parliamentary control procedures. They refuse to answer the current questions tabled or deferred their debate at the last minute. This is an unacceptable and unparliamentary practice, both in the area of legislative work and in the area of parliamentary control, which the Bureau of Parliament has to deal with because what is affected is, above all, Parliament's prestige. I take the view that the sudden introduction of the bill in plenary, by decision taken yesterday, is due to the amendment tabled for the extension of deadlines for the issue of netting orders for the public investment programme the end date of which was 31 March. Didn't the government know that before? Was it supposed to be 12 o'clock? This parentheses is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said in the debate on the bill in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the New Democracy will vote for the bill because it is essentially the continuation of the legislative initiatives it took as a government for the administrative cooperation of the Member States of the European Union in the field of tax controls. In fact, this draft law is based on Law 4170/2013, updates and strengthens some of its provisions. The n. 4170, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA had not voted for him. It was the time when Mrs. Merkel was the "Madam Merkel", the time when Mr. Tsipras said "go back, Mrs. Merkel", the time when SYRIZA abolished the memorandum with a law and an article and was preparing to dance the markets, which would play at the rate that Mr. Tsipras wanted. SYRIZA's refusal to accept the incorporation into national law of the directive on administrative cooperation between Member States of the European Union in matters of tax controls and combating tax evasion was due to a deeply anti-European culture that I am not sure has gone beyond. After all, the same attitude had also been adopted on the question of ratifying an agreement on economic and fiscal cooperation with the countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. I was privileged to be rapporteur at L.4170 in July 2013, which incorporated Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation and the exchange of information by European Union countries on tax matters and, in particular, on tax evasion cases and I remember very well what SYRIZA said at the time. Because what the other government partner, the ANELs, is no longer of great importance since the pragmatism that took place with Mr Kammenos and Mr Mouszala. As I said, Directive 2014/107 we are debating today its transposition into national law substantially amends and strengthens some provisions of Directive 2011/16 on which the n was based. 4170/2013, that is the law that we had brought and voted on. The incorporation and adaptation of these directives into national law express the European Union's desire for a single institutional framework to hit tax evasion. Obviously, Mr Tsipras' government has now seen this reality and brings the House a bill, the main predictions of which it has voted against not once, but twice as Opposition. The amendment and the adaptation shall relate to the first four Articles. In Article 2 of the draft law, the concept of information exchange is recast and strengthened, which is now being extended to other categories. Paragraph 3 defines the interconnection sections for the exchange of information between the tax authorities and the services of the Member States. In our country, it is Section F of the Directorate-General for Electronic Governance of the General Secretariat for Public Revenue, as provided for in Article 5 of Law 4170. In addition, the Secretary-General of Public Revenue will be able to designate additional sections of interconnection. The scope of automatic exchange of information in the financial sector shall be extended in accordance with the global model of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. This extension provides for the exchange of information on deposit accounts, insurance contracts with redemption or insurance income, custody accounts, and gross amounts of interest, dividends and other income, or gross income from the purchase or sale of financial assets. Paragraph 7 of Article 9 of Law No 4170 is also amended and the Minister of Finance is allowed to lay down specific measures for the application of the rules applicable to financial institutions for the exchange of data and information. This provision relates to banks, investment entities, insurance companies, custody institutions, i.e. entities which undertake to safeguard financial assets on behalf of third parties. The Secretary-General of Public Revenue is given competence to decide on the obligations of the banks in relation to reporting to the tax administration related to tax matters. In the debate in the House of Law 4170 SYRIZA to justify its unjustified and negative vote used a pretext, the question of the security and protection of personal data. This argument was and is completely pretentious, since the security of personal data is guaranteed through the CCL system, by which information is exchanged and, of course, only relates to cases where there are elements or shades of evidence of tax evasion or avoidance and a great deal of tax evasion, and after a reasoned request has been made. With Article 4 you incorporate Annexes I and II to the Directive into national law. The first Annex concerns the reporting rules and the security framework for the exchange of information that banks and financial institutions are obliged to apply. At the same time, the second Annex sets out the model to be followed for the uniform and effective implementation of the exchange of information in accordance with the agreement on cooperation between the Member States of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The incorporation of the second Directive 2015/2060 aims to protect citizens' rights since Article 5 repeals Directive 2003/48 according to which Member States should 1-1-2016 incorporate into their legislation and within the Community the provisions of that Directive on taxation and savings income in the form of interest payments. The exchange of information, however, made on the basis of this Directive by 1-1-2016, will be exploited. With regard to the retention of tax for this period, however, Member States will protect the rights of those who have income in the form of interest payments and as regards the granting of credits and certificates to these citizens in order to avoid double taxation by a State. In the bill that comes today for vote, there is also the transposition into national law of Directives 2014/86/EU and 2015/121/EU. These two Directives amend Directive 201/196/EEC on the common system of taxation applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries of different Member States. The aim is to close the last windows of tax evasion and evasion. The relevant regulations in Article 8 concern: firstly, the tax treatment of hybrid loans between associated companies, in order to ensure that tax on distributed profits between Member States is taxed. Secondly, dealing with abusive situations regarding the common tax system applicable to parent and subsidiary companies. Third, the inclusion of other types of companies subject to corporation tax and, in particular, of companies subject to the provisions of Polish and Romanian law. Directive 2013/61/EU amending Directives 2006/112/EC and 2008/118/EC concerning areas in Europe exempted from the application of VAT or having a special tax and customs regime is also incorporated into national law. These are now included in the region of Mayotte, France, which, as a remote region, forms part of the special VAT arrangements. We see that other governments claim a special regime with regard to VAT for the difficult areas of their territory, for those regions where there is difficulty in accessing, or where there are particular features and characteristics of the geographical discontinuance. You, with a characteristic ease in the supposed negotiation you have made, dismantled the reduced rates of VAT for the Aegean islands. The Government of New Democracy has also received pressure to abolish reduced rates of VAT on the islands. But he never gave in to them. Why? Because it has had two elements that you do not have, credibility and a result on the financial field. There are also amendments tabled by the government, a sample of the confusion, of the abstention and of the aims with which it legislates. I referred to the extension and issue of netting orders from the Public Investment Programme which we too are voting for, even if you are bringing it on the last day. At the last moment, the amendment you are giving a six-month extension to the provisions of the bankruptcy code for the exercise of the insolvency administrator's powers during the bankruptcy proceedings has also been tabled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. But here, there is a question since the government is attempting to change the provisions of paragraph (c) of Article 2 of L.4336/2015 in full. That article provided that the powers of the Judge, the mediator, the special agent and the special liquidator would be exercised by a natural or legal person who, following registration in a professional register, would have the right to pursue the occupation of the insolvency administrator. But you, with your amendment, remove the concepts of a natural or legal person. Mostly, however, you're removing the obligation to register in a professional register. In other words, you are creating an uncontrolled situation where it is not clear who can practice the occupation of insolvency administrator. There is also the amendment to the registration fees for cars and it is a decision of the European Court of Justice, as well as the amendment to extend the incentives for the withdrawal of cars provided for by exemption from the registration fee of new cars up to 2,000 cubic centimeters, a taxpayer of up to 20,000 euros, since they buy in replacement old cars whose licence has been issued up to 31-12/2001. Of course, I do not know how much this will work as an incentive after the monstrous increase in the excise duty on diesel, which is assumed to be in your designs. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the government has accepted that it must move within European rules. After all, it is very heavy the price that the Greek citizen has paid and paid for the improvisations of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Varoufakis, the promises and expectations you have cultivated. Look around you to see the achievements of your policy. You brought a new and more painful memorandum. You are about to bring in a package of new measures of 5.5 billion euros, which dismantle the middle class and the real economy. You closed the banks, you imposed capital controls. The country became a vast refugee and irregular immigrants' camp, a country with closed borders. Our President, Mr Mitsotakis, told you this clearly the other day. The cost of your staying in power is far greater than the cost for the citizens to decide to get the country a serious, firm and reliable governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u93	The reason is the special speaker from the Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotaros.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Before I began I could not comment on Mr Stathakis's non-proliferation yesterday for the third time by the Greek Parliament, when the judicial authorities are also strongly inclined to come to justice with serious accusations. This shows that the moral advantage of the first time left, which you so much talked to us about, is probably in the trash. And this, in combination with last year's debate at the level of the parties' leaders, about the interrogating, the misconduct, corruption, which was a debate'soup', because for hours the entire government and the Civilian Anti-Civilisation government had names-free classifications, with nothing. And as regards the only names we have heard, the only elements that the Chief of the Golden Dawn brought within the Greek Parliament - not unknown to most people, but also news - no one really paid attention to them. So, what moral advantage can we talk about, and what bills, which will help increase the State's revenue? With this draft law, we are debating another incorporation of Community directives on 'target', the resolution of cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion. In fact, the explanatory memorandum to the draft bill mentions the need to promote dynamically the tool of automatic exchange of information as a future European and international standard for transparency and exchange of information on tax matters with a view to increasing the tax revenues of the Member States of the European Union. We heard in committee - today we did not hear it - from a rapporteur - I do not remember if it was for SYRIZA or for New Democracy, it does not matter - that Europe has rules. Europe has rules, but it also has many exceptions and loopholes so that all these rules are legally violated. And while this bill sounds reasonable, I repeat that the exceptions to this law - and we will come to them a little below - are, in fact, fabulously falsifying you and falsifying the bill in question. We read here the exceptions to this Code, in this bill, which areas of Europe are excluded: ‘The following national territories which are not part of the customs territory of the European Union are excluded: the island of Eligoland and the region of Byzigen of the Federal Republic of Germany, Ceuta and Melilla of the Kingdom of Spain, the municipalities of Livino and Campione d'Italia and the waters of Lake Lugano of the Italian Republic. The following national territories forming part of the customs territory of the European Union (special tax territories):’ It also refers to the Mount Athos, where there is no business and rightly. But the region of Lanzarote, Fuerteventura, Gran Canaria, Tenerife, La Gomera, El Hierro and La Palma, the Aland Islands of the Finnish Republic, the Anglo-Roman Islands of the Channel Islands: Alderney, Jersey, Guernsey, Sark, Herm and Les Minquires. The French territories referred to in Articles 349 and 355(1) are also excluded. 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Réunion and Mayotte. All these regions - as you have seen, almost all European states have tax havens - do not fall under this bill. So, what are we talking about? With a lot of ease, someone who wants to hide money, black or tax free money, will simply go to these regions within the European Union, it will all be fine and nothing will happen at all. I would also like to make a note here, since we are talking about such bills which will resolve tax evasion and fraud at pan-European level. Really, for frauds within the Greek territory - simpler things - why don't you do nothing? Did you ever go to see the Attica Road contract, see the revenue gains, what the state should receive and what it receives, where other companies in offshore style have been artificially built, within the Greek territory, where costs increase and Attica Road pays nothing because all the revenues go to other Bombola companies? Do you know all this? Oh, no. But even if you knew about it and said it once, now we don't see you doing anything about it. Also, if you do not correct the obvious injustices against the Greek people, against many social groups, then this bill will have absolutely no value. You seem inappropriate and improper - and your Government - to the already known lists. So, you don't need this bill to find out information and information about tax refugees or black money. By the way, these lists - you know them all - are full of politicians, of relatives, of canalarchs, of national contractors, of large-scale journalists and, more generally, of all those who affect our country's lives, which you support with a particular vigour. And the New Democracy, however, supports with nails and teeth the cheater, Mr. Papastavrous, who, as the Chief of the Golden Dawn said the other day, is not only what others said and did - this simple and honest lawyer! - and where he found the millions of euros to pay the fines. However, there has also been the conclusion of the micronomists, who are people who did not make their money abroad, but invested them in bonds of the Greek State, for the benefit of the Greek State and who within one day "feed them all, with a haircut which was a kart, it was absurd and which had absolutely no value. If the strangulation of the real pillars of the Greek economy, businessmen, free traders, craftsmen, traders, farmers, all those in a normal society are its pillar, then this bill has absolutely no value. If the returnee tax raids, which in particular in the last seven years with the Memorandums, are not stopped, then this bill has absolutely no value. We read here incredible things: Over 50% of the income of Greek citizens will now go to taxes, contributions and everything else. New measures brought by the government to close the assessment of measures of more than EUR 6 billion. Everything you said by January 15th, 2015, has gone to the trash. You're humiliating, humiliating, humiliating, trying to justify unjustified. We're constantly reading what's going on. We have 78% increase in the closure of companies. For the first time, the companies in our country that close and open much less have been tripled. We have an increase in companies that go abroad in order to be able to survive, because here we can no longer survive, unless they are a mobster, a crook or a friend of some politicians, to get jobs on direct contracts or something else. You need to stop the waste, which the 'first time left' continues, because the day before yesterday we saw that you brought an amendment, so that this terrible economist, Korean Kim, or whatever is said, can lawfully collect hundreds of thousands of euros of euros for the services he provided during the Baroufakis era, where you have done so, but now that you are continuing to do so and have done so black and spidered. If you do not promote the protection of Greek products and of Greek workers, then this bill will have absolutely no value. You were supposed to have said it the other day. The Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, has brought thirteen figures showing her involvement up to a pre-government PASOK - New Democracy and others. Well, remove them too very easily, with a law. Because we heard you say, "You bring shame, you bring shame, you bring shame". Well, you know them, bring new laws, new amendments here to abolish these unacceptable shames. All of this confirms that you are in fact not at all interested in either the house of the countryside or the well-appointed development, which, if ever in this place - and with what you do, will solve much of the problems of the Greek people. If you wanted real results in the direction of increasing the revenues of the Greek state, you would not have done all that your predecessors have done, which you have carved with manoeuvre, warmly and based on this opposition tactic you have become a government, and the world has voted for you, and has also given you a veil, because it was such hatred and envy for the corrupts of the New Democracy and PASOK, which thought you would be better. But with the measures you are taking, you are no different from your predecessors. You should have strengthened the primary sector, as we said. You should simplify procedures and introduce a stable fiscal framework for the benefit of Greek entrepreneurs, Greek free traders, traders, craft traders, farmers and the real investors who want to come here to invest and develop. Taxing capacity should also have defined the tax possibility. You've exceeded every precedent. The Constitution expressly refers to the citizens' fiscal capacity, which is something that you are constantly being destroyed. You should have supported the Greek worker, Greek products, against the poplar of imported and, in particular, from third countries, Asian, African, where we know the working environment very well. Some children there work for fifteen and twenty hours a day and they take a dollar a day and then then the Greek craftsman can handle and compete with these products. 'They', 'they', 'they', 'they'! Too much you could do, but you don't care at all about the Greeks or anything. You continue to be interested in the interests that break this place and which are constantly, like chameleons, shattered and continue to live and rule and do what they want on the ground in our country. Your ideas are dismantling the country. We have seen this in recent months, which is what you have been proving, since you are doing everything for the illegal immigrants and the very few refugees, but you are not doing it properly, with this disgrace that is happening in Idomenis, where the world is in the mud months now and you do nothing about it, and the Greek citizens are literally flying. You have given what you have done by laws and everyone is in favour of illegal immigrants and minimum refugees and nothing for Greeks. We are voting against this bill in principle. Our parliamentary representative will be placed later on on the articles and amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u95	There are only two colleagues here. Therefore, if we continue as we started, we will be done by 16.00 at the latest, so that there will be time for those who participate in the Standing Committee on urgent legislation. Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos from the Democratic Partnership has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this draft law, which ratifys the directives on automatic exchange of information, was shaded by a institutional diversion in our view, as the Democratic Reconciliation took advantage of Article 70 of the Constitution, paragraph 6 and Article 32 of the Rules of Procedure, together with 128b and 132a and tabled a question to the Minister of Finance, to be discussed at second reading of the draft law, in order to inform the committee of Parliament and thus the Greek people of the course of negotiation. And while the government so far finds a number of pretexts to avoid informing the Greek people and doing so only with leaks, the first time the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament clearly violated them, telling us that these are printed on the charter maps, the ones Mr. Tsipras said it was every word of the Constitution. And he does so with a great deal of ease and hypocrisy in order not to respond to a request which is both timely and of course did not prevent the minister present for his own bill - that is the provision of the Rules of Procedure - from responding in the way he would respond. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Conference of Presidents will raise this issue on our part, because it is not possible for what has been introduced to extend the content of parliamentary control, last decade in the House, to abolish a majority of them to institutional aberrations. And that's a big deal. For the rest, which has to do with the substance of the negotiation, we will, in any case, oblige the government to put it in addition to the leaks. Because the government continues to tell us that it will not take any new measures, but we are learning about new measures which will change the family and business planning of a large majority of Greeks. It's not just that they're loading new weights. Unfortunately, this diversion of the Greek Parliament's disinformation took place one day before the working group set up by the European Parliament - by letter from Mr Tsipras, they say - to monitor the implementation of the programme. The Group of the European Parliament, which came here yesterday, passed a decision, a resolution, the previous composition of the European Parliament, following a report by the relevant Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which checked the activities of the Troika in the countries which were in a programme. This report has identified the lack of accountability, the lack of transparency in many cases, institutional dismissals and has proposed that these be corrected by the institutions. And at a time when such a debate is taking place, we, the majority, in other words, destroys the Rules of Procedure, so that it does not inform the House. This is a central issue and I had to raise it because it is linked to the bill and it led us to leave at the second meeting, even though we said that we would vote on the bill. Now I'm gonna say, as simple as I can, what this bill does. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, ratifys five European Commission directives. I shall not mention them by name, one by one, for the time economy, because it is limited. The instructions in the articles and chapters of the bill are given. The European Union started in 2003 with Directive 2003/48, which incorporated the Greek legal order with Law 3312/2005, an attempt to exchange information in order to combat tax evasion, tax fraud and cross-border movements of taxable material, which also affect public finances and create unequal conditions of competition. This framework was improved by Directive 2011/16 of the European Union, which was incorporated into the Greek legal order with Law No 4170/2013. That is where we call with SYRIZA, because he finds every time a number of pretexts not to vote for them, as he did not vote for - I remind you - the opening up of the accounts and the financial prosecutor, again with various pretexts. I will then say where these directives improve the existing framework. I must point out, however, that the international organisations, both the G20, the G8 and the OECD, have then worked out a framework for dealing with tax evasion, tax fraud and black money, which, on the one hand, fulfil budgetary objectives - because all the states have budgetary needs and not only Greece, which is in the budgetary crisis - but, above all, their aim is to combat unfair competition, as you realise how healthy competition and entrepreneurship are affected, when there is a great deal of tax evasion. You will tell me: 'Is these intentions true?' They have a part of honesty and they also have a part of hypocrisy, as all of them, including the European Union, have not so far raised the issue of tax havens not only globally, but also within the European Union. Because the European Union, for example, in indirect taxation has made a relative harmonisation with the VAT directives, is trying to combat tax evasion, but allows preferential tax regimes within it. And that's a lot. It is also in Luxembourg, it is in England, it is elsewhere. So this specific directive 2014/107 that we are going to ratify today is coming to extend the framework for the exchange of information. In addition to the income provided by the previous Directives and the previous legislative framework that we incorporated into the Greek legal order, what does it put in it as a new element? He's putting on an exchange of financial account information. This is a great debate, as it concerns our country. There is a lot of talk about those who have gone their money outside, about the lists of Mr Alexiadis, who will catch the tax evasion and look for "fresh in the straw". If we compare the figures he presents here during parliamentary scrutiny, then there is a lack of tax evasion over the previous years. In any case, it extends this framework and deepens it, establishing the electronic format, which will automatically exchange information and ensure personal data as well. But I have to tell you that Greece, which is often being swamped and its policies are being levelled, is one of the countries that has taken the lead, as we since 2014, in addition to voting on the directives here, have said that we will apply the common world standard together with ninety-seven other countries that have signed it. Of course, it is now up to the current government to go ahead with it, as we, as far as we were concerned, did our work, because these directives are the result of the earlier Greek governments and their interventions and not those which would 'change Europe'. They haven't done anything yet. Also, with regard to the current directives, 2015 repeals the previous provisions. 2014 and 2015 are the ones that define the scheme between subsidiaries and parent, so that there is no double taxation. And is 2013, which is what she's doing? It enables France, because of the very decentralized area of the island of Mayotte, to be excluded from VAT, that is, as we have excluded Mount Athos. That's the regime. This is not a tax haven. This is a region, a territory, a Member State of the European Union, where the common rule on VAT does not apply. The French have done so - they may have had arguments - and we do so. I shall conclude, Mr President, with three words on the amendments and one conclusion. The conclusion is that Greece has an interest in applying these directives to the other States in which Greeks deposited to collect from interest and taxes. What can the Germans expect from us? Are there foreign deposits here in Greece? This is where the Greeks' statements left. So we are right to legislate, which is why we shall vote. And we, as the head of the right legislature, must also seek to legislate and have the results. For the four amendments I would like to say a word for each. We shall vote for the amendment which makes a proportionate allocation of the registration fees for cars with a financial lease, the so-called leasing. We will vote for the amendment that extends until 1-10-2016 the procedures for setting up the Insolvency Manager's Register. But what does Mr. Stathakis do to this ministry? In every bill, whether it is ratification of contracts or directives, it brings us an extension. Well, now it's a bankruptcy law. The day before, it was the auctions. Should some reforms not take place? Can this government put any tax on it? We shall vote on the amendment to withdraw, even though it is lame. First of all, she's lazy, because she's been cutting out a year. Every time we withdraw, we add one year so that the provisions can be uniform. Minister, why until 2001? By 2002 it must go. And, of course, she's bored in relation to the compensation. In any case, we will do so, even though the government has a basic responsibility for the suffering of this whole world at this time, which has been awaiting the withdrawal. We will vote on the amendment to extend the payment orders by one month, from 31 March. Today it was over. And we ask: Why? They're steadfast? Did you scan the available resources and could not make the set-up of the payment orders and now bring the amendment? Why didn't that happen any more years? We will reserve a reservation - unless you give us some clarification - on the amendment concerning the exceptional secondment of officials to the Special Secretariat of the Water Resources. Our custody is not about the secondment. To be a secondment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u97	The Minister will come later, Mr. Kutsuko, and you will listen to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u98	Good. To be seconded, but for the exceptional selection procedure... That reminds me of a little photo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u99	We'll hear him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u100	That is all, Mr President. Thank you for your little tolerance, because you realise that time is too limited. However, I would also like to thank you and my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u101	Be well. Mr. Athanasios Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, may I have the floor, please? I have to submit a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u103	Here, testify. If it's big, don't read it. You're filing it in the Minutes. If she's young, read her.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u104	It is a very small improvement in the legal system. We accept the comment of the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which on page five makes a proper proposal. We therefore accept the proposal from the Scientific Agency. “After the end of Article 9, the title “TETAARTIC PART” and the subtitle “Other Provisions” shall be added.’; That's the legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u105	Well, testify to it, so it can be distributed to colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u106	Mr Vardalis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the incorporation of the five European Union directives, which establish the compulsory collection and automatic exchange of various financial information between the Member States, all the other parties say that tax evasion will be struck, that the basis for tax revenue will be widened and that a better business environment will be created in the single market. You also let it be understood that the future will be won and popular strata. As a party, we believe that all this interest, both in the European Union and in the Euromono street parties, is hypocritical. And that's why? Firstly, once you accept the four freedoms of Maastricht, the freedom to move capital, goods, services and workers, since the hunting of the maximum rate of profit is the pursuit of capital, very little efficiency you will have, whatever measures you can take. Of course, you are all telling all tons of how you want to hit tax evasion. A number of measures have been announced for years, which would have been supposed to combat it. The experience has shown, however, that, as many times as such measures were announced, in practice what we had been further escalating tax raids into popular strata. So the fight against tax evasion was mainly used as a pretext so far. And that's why? Because the liberalisation of capital movements has created more favourable conditions for tax havens. So, on the one hand, you cannot agree with the Maastricht Treaty, you can agree with the Treaty of Lisbon, with the Europe 2020 development strategy, and on the other, you can say that you will hit tax evasion. The new campaign to combat tax evasion is not going to affect large-scale mobile and immovable property, which can tax, because of the free movement of capital, tax havens, offshore companies and the various secrets, but will also lead, as in the past, to new tax measures against people's incomes. That's why we're saying that all of you who say you're going to hit the tax evasion once you're defending capitalist profit, you're never going to face it. You may periodically limit it, but up to there. We believe that the only way to deal with tax evasion is by collision with capitalist profits, with the interests and action of monopolies. Secondly, because big capital, business groups, tax evasion and tax fraud legally. All previous governments have passed a series of laws with incredible privileges, tax exemptions, subsidies and other measures towards large capital, to ensure the profits of business groups. And the current government in its immediate objectives has passed the new development law, a paradise law for groups, hell for workers. This objective also serves the production reconstruction plan, a plan linked to the completion of the first evaluation of the third memorandum and the anti-grain measures it contains. This role is to be played by the establishment of the Development Fund and the Development Council. The government's agreement with partners in closing the first assessment, with additional anti-grassroots measures of over EUR 5.4 billion, has already been made public. What workers have to expect is new tax evasion and subsidies for groups, on the one hand, and new tax on people's incomes, on the other, environmental destruction, procedures - express for privatising state filleting, plundering whatever labour rights have been left. This is also what BSE calls for, for a stable, 'treaty', a competitive tax framework for businesses and investment, for at least 10 years, to strengthen, as they themselves claim, the competitiveness and the extroversion of the economy. Third matter. You all state that you want to step on tax evasion, but no one wants to face the cause of tax evasion. Because the cause of tax evasion is not a Greek peculiarity, nor is it, of course, the inefficiency of tax mechanisms, despite any problems. Tax evasion is a characteristic of the modern capitalist way of organising the economy. This is because tax exemption, tax evasion, tax evasion of large capital are an important factor in supporting capitalist profits. In particular, during times of economic capitalist crisis, a grim picture of profits is created, because the depreciation of productive forces and, first of all, of the labour force is not enough to overcome or pass, if you like, from the stage of recession to the stage of growth. So there is a need, along with the depreciation of labour force, to depreciate some of the capital as well. And then the capital is more interested in the healthy competition that we have heard. And he's more interested, because, yes, he's discrediting part of the capital, but what part of it will be? What part of the capital will pay the judgment? So who's gonna lose and who's gonna win? That is why in this case everyone is asking at least for the game to be played on equal terms. In competition between the capitalists also use tax competition, and the result is that more and more measures are taken that evaporate and exempt large business groups. This aspect, in particular, of ensuring healthy competition, comes to the vote on this draft law, with the incorporation of these five directives. Tax competition and the need, as the government declares, to attract investment will now lead to an overall tax exemption for large capital. The multiplication of the legal tax evasion of monopolistic groups in all sectors of the economy means even tougher measures for workers. Fourth issue. One of the five directives we are debating, 2014/107, amends, as has been said by the previous rapporteur, Directive 2011/16, namely a directive that was adopted three years ago. It took only three years to make the previous directive ineffective. This alone shows the scale of the difficulty and the inefficiency of such efforts. After all, the same explanatory statement states that the whole effort has become less effective, ‘because of the investment opportunities framework abroad in a wide range of financial products’, as the explanatory statement states. In other words, you admit that, while we have modernising legislation on the one hand, capital always finds new ways to get past it and avoid tax. Fifth issue. One will say: 'But again, what is the problem? Even if a small part of the tax evasion is to be taken, that will be positive, because state costs will increase beyond tax justice, we will have more room for social policy." In our opinion, this is a fraud, because even in this case, increased state revenue will go for debt repayment but also for subsidies on large capital, infrastructures that need to increase its profitability, to make the economy relaunch, to bring capitalist growth. There are already new anti-grassroots measures, such as the increase in excise duties on fuel. Prices are being studied in mobile telephony charges, tax revaluations across the range of incomes of employees and retired persons. Reduction of tax, increase in insurance contributions for self-employed, professional craftsmen and scientists, farmers. The new tax-examination is to be added to the reductions in wages and pensions, to the merchandise of health, education and welfare, which deplete all people's incomes. From this point of view, it is not at all strange to identify a full government and opposition parties, because all of you consider that the tax system... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. I'll be out in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u108	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u109	... is also an investment support factor and, through it, is satisfied with the need to create greater capital profitability. The people are not going to see a government on the tracks of the European Union and in a direction that defines the interests of business groups. Do information need to be exploited? Catching tax-gatherers? Of course you do. But in any case, anti-Flemish, anti-Flemish policy against the people will continue. No illusion should have the popular strata that with the extra possible tax revenue they will lessen, even a little, their suffering. For the people there is only the other way of development, without capitalists and monopolies, with labour power, with central planning to exploit all the wealthy sources of the country and the people of wealth, which they produce, free from the European Union and other imperialist organisations, by socialising the means of production and unilateral debt. For all these reasons, we are voting against the draft law in principle and on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u110	Thank you. We continue with the special speaker from Potami, Mr. Harris Theocharis. We are writing you a "Dear", a "Godforth". We need to find a solid report.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u111	They both work. I'm trained, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u112	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, having listened yesterday to hints, whispers, suspicions and cheap setbacks on the issues of corruption, interlocutory and interventions in justice, we have not heard any institutional intervention to shield justice, to combat corruption. Yesterday I made five proposals, which I expected to hear in vain the evening of discussing these issues: institutional safeguarding the independence of justice and the separation of powers, removal of the possibility of defining general secretaries and administrations by the parties - you did not dare to do so - a drastic reduction in the non-controlling powers of the public - so that frequent contacts between public and private - cease at all costs, including secrets, by a special body and, of course, e-government to reduce interfaces and corruption, the possibilities for corruption. After listening yesterday to the Minister of Defence, in full inconsistency with his statements in the discussion of the Heads, to bring in two late amendments on the compensatory benefits and procedures for the supply of fuels from the Armed Forces, we are now coming to talk about incorporating into national law the directives, extending the scope and automating the framework for the exchange of tax information, with the main aim of combating tax evasion, this sacred record, but also the candy, which the political system constantly sucks. We are, of course, doing so with sudden procedures, surprise, without any justification. There was no reason for this debate to come to plenary today, and it was scheduled for next week, except, of course, disrespect for Parliament and incompetence. But in tax evasion your attitude is not much different from your attitude to the issues of corruption in general. You developed with enough noise an entire parafiscality around the lists, with no special results, while at the same time in 2015, although you increased VAT rates and the final consumption expenditure appears slightly strengthened, VAT revenues are unchanged. What does that mean? The tax evasion in relation to VAT has increased, but the announcements made by the Minister, Mr Alexiadis, of course speak of assurances. It is very convenient to speak not of receipts, but only of confirmations. On tax evasion, the government's misrule of words and works is absolute, and I really do not know whether I should consider it politically incompetent or indifference. In fact, the bill gradually expands the automatic exchange of information in new categories of income and capital. It harmonizes the way in which tax information is exchanged at European level. It lays down the obligations of financial institutions. It enables the identification of cases of tax evasion, money laundering and financing of a number of illegal activities, even related to security and terrorism. The framework, however, and access to information are not in themselves enough. They must be able to make use of and not stay in the expressions of impression, exclusively for internal consumption. The government will be judged by its effectiveness to use this information. Of course, we do not institutionalise our ability to use facts, but our obligation to provide information in the other countries. It is the respective draft laws of the other Member States that provide us with this information, of course in the context of reciprocity. I should like to point out that we are probably the last of us who are in favour of this agreement, and we are probably going to do what we have to do. Of course, once again you have decided not to bring another five amendments to the transposition of the Community directive, some of the extension amendments - which have been accepted! - some other ministries, some examples of impotence. Obviously the amendment to bring national legislation into line with Community legislation on the issue of the ending of the classification of cars, which have been installed in other Member States, is part of the country's obligations. The country must comply with the Union provisions. However, with regard to the netting of the PPC, the Public Investment Programme, we again have a case of extension, which could have been avoided. If we go to the amendment on the time-limit for the entry into force of the provisions on the organisation of the insolvency practitioner's occupation, we find that it is not just a matter of delay and governmental inability. With the third memorandum, with your memorandum, the country has undertaken to amend the bankruptcy code and to create insolvency administrators' registers. This amendment postpones the application of all the amendments agreed. At the same time that you show exaggerated zeal to agree to the "Axe" in the middle family, with the measures of 5.4 billion, a measure of purely reformative character put it on ice. So you are worthy followers, the same as the previous governments, who, like you, had allergy to reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, there are, of course, the memoranda, agreements and negotiations, but there are also your choices and these are now clear: taxes, taxes, taxes and far from reform. Regarding the expected amendment to extend the car withdrawal measure until May 2016, I also told the committee that we were in agreement. You left it too late, of course, because it might have caught you in bed and you didn't renew when you had to, and surely you're reducing the motives and making fun of it. I wish, however, that the new measure of withdrawal will work. Finally, in a draft by the Ministry of Finance on taxation you are bringing us an amendment from the Ministry of the Environment on the Special Secretariat for Waters, obviously irrelevant and unconstitutional. This amendment circumvents not only the existing provisions, but also the service councils, gives them an OSH and a simple request from the secondments concerned, and even a lasting one, the right to choose the posted in positions of responsibility, but also the right to convert the posting into a post on request and by a joint ministerial decision. So why is the Public Staff Code being effectively circumvented and circumvented? Because you don't care about the code, because you don't respect public administration. You're interested in regulating all the issues with exceptions so that the employees can be your hostages. This is also part of the normative practice and logic that governs you. Ladies and gentlemen, the picture presented in this House by the Government and colleagues of the Co-Population for the state of the country is a reflection of reality, an eyewitness. We incorporate instructions, we expect the negotiation to be closed. Really, when is that? We hope in April. We are constantly listening to the successful recapitalisation of the banks and the day before yesterday we heard the Deputy Minister, Mr. Juliarakis, describeing the successes in the management of public finances. Instead of hiding, we say we have successes. So let me give you another picture. In 2015, non-performing loans amounted to 117 billion, increasing 9% compared to 2014. Over 40% of these are business loans and borrowers are increasingly reluctant to pay. The information says that the rate has increased astronomically over the past few months. At the same time, household and business deposits are lower than they were in June with the imposition of capital controls. The Capital Controls have entered so that the deposits are no longer gone and we see that they continue to leave, even at a small rate. Today 121,6 billion, 122,2 billion last June. Confidentiality in the banking system has not been restored to the minimum. For people to understand, if there is no trust just to put their money on the banks, how will there be confidence in investing Greek and foreign investors? It is a prerequisite to restore this confidence before we hope that foreign investment will come. 'Cause you have some fantasies that once the deal's closed, then everything's gonna be fine. The flow of bank financing to enterprises is constantly shrinking. In February, the annual rate of change in funding was at the minus 1.6%. Despite your "successful" recapitalisation, the banking system cannot recover and therefore cannot play its part, to finance the economy. You have given us - and this is your great success - only 5.5 billion to the banks. You are presenting it to us as the great success of the recapitalisation. However, with so little money banks, loans that are not served cannot sell them cheaply so that good regulations can be given to the small and medium-sized enterprises that have them. In other words, he won the public in borrowing against the small media that can't pay his loan. This is your success strangling the country and the small and medium-sized one. So you know where this is going to lead? In the frustration of businesses, small and larger, in lock-ups and unemployment for those businesses which, apart from all other problems, have to deal with your ideas about poor capital, bad entrepreneurs who are constantly burdening with new taxes and increased contributions, because that is what they deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, people want solutions from us, solutions that you have now shown that you cannot and do not want to offer. You are part, most of the problem, not of the solutions. You're a barber for the country. The longer you hold power, your anaesthesia for the problems of the world, the more you send the country to the bottom and surely drowning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u114	We get to the last two special speakers. First, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos will speak from the ANELs and then Mr. George Katsiantonis will speak from the Centroon Union. Then the two fellow speakers, Mr Diaras and Mrs Papacosta, will speak. The Minister will be asked if he wants to make his position before the parliamentary representatives speak. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we will be discussing the transposition of a directive and, at the same time, the amendments put forward by the Ministries. The Independent Greeks, as we have said, and all parties as far as I know, except for the Communist Party of Greece and the Golden Dawn, will support this legislative initiative. As far as the withdrawal is concerned, it is a measure that should be taken. I asked the dear Minister about twenty days ago. He's here and he's answered. The amendment has been tabled. On May 20, if I'm not mistaken, it's the end date. All our fellow citizens will have to move to the law's beneficialness, because it is not 31 May, the deadline will end, and on 20 will have to end the process. For the bankruptcy code, these decisions had to be made. So it's too important for there to be clear rules in the bankruptcy code. There are other initiatives that need to be taken, which we will take in time, and we will see them immediately after the evaluation. I do not want to go into this now, but there are discussions on the bankruptcy code at many levels of taxpayers. The amendment of the Customs Code acquiescences the whole situation. And the regulation of water issues is something that needs to be done. With the opportunity to mention, because there were some of the Members who came, such as Mr Loverdes, I do not now remember if he was in the Committee on European Affairs, where we had fellow Members, that I had a great debate on Greece's finances, on the monitoring of the programme, on the role of the European Commission as another pillar to help, monitor, control and transfer our positions. Let me also remind the honourable Prime Minister's letter to Mr Schultz. I'm going to go into some practical details and discussions we've had. When this bill talks about automatic exchange of information, we are clearly talking about automatic exchange of information through the information systems that each country has, for example, the Ministry of Finance has our own Income Management, but let alone the banking system. We must make it clear that each taxpayer's full profile and habits, in relation to his money and how he moves them, where he invests them, only through banks, are not done through a ministry. That's, I think, clear. However, it is the banks that all have this information. This legislation comes also with security folds and procedures trying to bring transparency and clarity to these transactions. Let's go now and see what the problem is in Europe. I won't talk about the global problem. I will also invoke my previous experience before I become a Member of Parliament. As I have raised today in the Committee on Economic Affairs, there are very specific issues and problems in the financial sector. There are, for one thing, different motives. The one who sells the product of his work - to say it popular - is money, has an incentive to sell more money. At the same time, there must also be someone who buys the money. It's like selling water and someone thirsting and drinking water. Here's the key to fraud. I'm going to submit some information about whoever wants and has the kindness to be informed. The biggest research that has ever been done, and we finished it in 2013, when I was abroad, speaks of 21 trillion dollars hidden in tax havens. It's the summary, but whoever wants full growth, I can give it to him, and where they are and why they are. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now let's go to money laundering. When a directive comes to be incorporated into the laws of a State, it is essentially trying to control the origin of money and if the owner of this money is justified to make free use of it or if they are blocked or has legal origin. And the directive comes and automatically controls the money owner if he invests somewhere or legally transfers the money that he holds legally. Money laundering, though, how's it done? I'm going to testify another study. I'll say two numbers to see. It's a big analysis. The biggest fines for tax evasion and money laundering have not been eaten by governments - this is another conversation, great - banks have eaten up. In 2012, HSBC ate 1.9 billion. I'll tell you why. BNP Paris, the largest bank active in Europe, and the second is Deutsche Bank, 9 billion. Deutsche Bank will now eat around five for the Russians. Standard Chartered 300. I have the whole list here. Why? Because when a client changed their jurisdiction or was a customer with Greek VAT and then went and became a client of HSBC or Standard Chartered based in Hong Kong, the bank had its data, but was not obliged to give it anywhere and secretly transferred its funds. It's a very important report, this presentation, for anyone who wants to see it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] When there was no state law to impose on banks the control and electronic footprint of the same client on various jurisdictions, the bank basically - I come to my report - because it wants to sell money and manage money and wealth, because this is its job and earn interest from it, it was diligently hiding the evidence. Where's the money today? In caves? In underwater forests? Oh, no. Who is this man who's the always reader of how you're gonna manage your money, the investment banker or anyone else? They're big consultative houses and the banks themselves. The banks themselves have the mechanisms, because they have to find a way to sell more money. Like water, the company wants to find a way to sell more water. If he can't make you thirst with artificial drought, he'll try to put it in much more places and hide his tactics to put the water on you in many places, so that you can always find it to drink it. But this whole process is done through a bank. That must be clear. That is why, as we have said in the committee, different laws must be made. A state has limited capabilities. He doesn't have the ability to enter the bank to look. I do not know whether or not we should do this - there are supervisory authorities and central banks, there are the supervisory mechanisms and the shareholders and the rules of each bank - but all this black money or what these legislations are trying to catch, monitor it, tax it - probably only tax it and not persecute, because it may not have to exercise persecution - the tax revenue is a tax item that escapes. In my first analysis, the 21.5 trillion dollars worldwide are a taxable material that escapes. That is why the studies are being carried out, which is why they were trying and trying to locate where the money is, so that they could possibly tax them, or bring a large part of them into the system. Now let's explain why the banks are diligently hiding - because this is their job, without being illegal, because all this is legal, is not illegal - the elements of their customers and why they are treated differently from country to country. Consider a simple example, however, which is very positive: Luxembourg in 2014 had at the foreigment investment, namely foreign investment - which is affected by Greece - 6.000% increase from the previous year, Luxembourg, which, apart from the metal mines - as far as I know - and the wood is concerned, has nothing else to produce. It has a debt to GDP of 1,200%. Why are the money going to Luxembourg? It's very simple. Because the legal system in Luxembourg, which helps the financial sector, has allowed capital to be invested, i.e. to transfer money, funds, wealth with low or zero taxation on the basis of a 1929 law which has nothing to do with it now. As far as Luxembourg is concerned, the European Union itself would say: 'Greek may also become a tax haven'. And it is one of the issues that I raised today with my colleagues. Why can't Portugal? Why can't Malta? Why can not Italy or Portugal affected, France? The Netherlands is a tax haven. Isle of Man is a tax haven. San Marino is a tax haven. Germany has tax havens. Monaco is a tax haven. The Vatican is a tax haven. At the border of Switzerland - Italy there are tax havens, in Lake Como and around -. Everywhere there are tax havens. Switzerland, Liechtenstein. Why can't Greece? Why cannot one choose within the European Union to be a tax haven? What does that mean? That I'm going to pay a low tax to someone who's gonna transfer my capital here. And what's the motive? Let the statements come. Because, as we have come up with and come up with in relation to this bill, the issue is bank deposits. The issue, alpha and omega throughout this equation, socio-economic policy, are bank deposits. The guys left us. They left us and went to Germany. You in Germany asked the Greeks where you were and are sending them to Deutsche Bank or Commerce Bank or Hype of the Race Bank? No, you accepted them because you wanted testimonials. If I ask for all the money from the media back, from Switzerland, is it or is it not bank rang at a bank large that can have 500 million Greek misery? It's a 500 million withdrawal. Will the bank accept to turn you back the money that's illegally transferred there? All these legislation is a very, very good start to start a debate. It needs equality, equality and transparency. It is not right now in Europe - as much legislation as we do, which is very reasonable and must be incorporated into all fairs - that there are a thousand windows and a different way of dealing with tax systems in seventeen euro countries or nineteen or twenty-eight or thirty that will be done in the European Union. In conclusion, I should like to ask you why, for example, Ireland can have its own initiative for three months, while it is in the memos, to have a tax of 6.25% on patent management, namely intellectual property? It says to you: "Get me your brand, which is called "anything", to tax it with 6.25%" and that within the Eurozone, within the memoranda. And why am I saying Greece or France not? I say, do you French accept that? Why don't the patents come to tax in France or Greece? Because if the patents in France and Greece are taxed, the deposit will increase...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Cammene, please. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u117	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...the banking system will be refined, we will build NPLs, we will reduce our dependence on the Eurozone, we will have healthy money to provide loans and credit expansion, and ten tax investments will be made. This is all a huge inequality. It is a very good step, but there is too much work to be done both in Europe and in the ministries of finance and in the decision-making centre in the European Central Bank. I'm filing the last panel, which is amazing. On money laundering in 2015, the first is Luxembourg, second, Germany, third, Italy. Greece is nowhere and it's official papers. They refer to money laundering in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u118	We don't have ours here. Are we going to wash another one?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u119	We've got laundry! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, too. The last special speaker, Mr Georgios Katsiantonis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have been facing a very important challenge. The strictly defined national economic environments tend to disappear. When we talk about economy, internationalisation is now an integral condition. The assistance of new technologies and new means of communication and exchange of information is crucial. The people of the market have now become familiar with this new framework of operation, at least in the Western world. Others may be the head office of a company, elsewhere its activity, elsewhere its deposits and elsewhere its owner. In practice, a tax resident of Greece can start a company in Cyprus, provide services to America and save his tax income in cash to any bank in the world. It can now buy shares of any company in the world, actively and investment in any business scheme. The current bill, as we discussed it in the Committee on Economic Affairs, is an excellent tool, but we fear that it will result in the wrong hands or in wrong use. Therefore, this tool for automatic exchange of information has already been found to be a very important instrument in the fight against cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion. Its importance has indeed been demonstrated at international level in G20 and G8. In fact, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has been instructed by the G20 Group to establish a single global standard for automatic exchange of tax information. The Union of Centres is strategically in favour of adopting tools and useful legislative interventions in Europe and the Western world as a whole. We will always be opposed to the delay and the improper adoption of such decisions. We must always proceed to their immediate and effective harmonisation in our national data. The automatic exchange of information and any other facilities subject to it may lead to certain risks to the free market. Yes, although our country is planning to benefit from tax, but at the same time it can be a lever of pressure and blackmail in certain circles of interest. As we have already pointed out emphatically in the Committee on Economic Affairs, if the tool is not used properly by those in charge of our country, then a new cycle of corruption and duplication will flourish. And even more intense and blackmailing. The questions we put to the committee and put to the plenary are as follows: How will we choose the persons who will have access to this information? How can we be sure that these persons will be unaffected by political and party interests? How will we know that they will be so right and honest that all they care about will be the interests of their country and not any interest in either their own or their political leaders? As long as we have confidence in a almighty Minister for Health, who will govern the state machine and its executives? How can this machine and its executive be evaluated in practice? Apart from that, we must also point out: when we do well to start implementing in practice, the financial institutions that state themselves, as well as the sending and recipient countries, are obliged to keep the information for a certain period of time only. This period will be sufficient to meet the objectives stated explicitly in both the draft law and its explanatory statement. We are not sure if we have finally come up with this timescale. Is there sufficient coverage by national legislation or do further intervention? The vote in favour of the current bill, however, from us, does not mean that we give the government a white cheque to government actors and the state mechanism to salivate the private economy, chasing rival victims. Greeks who have business abroad doesn't mean they're also tax-gunkers. It is not tax evasion the only motive for international entrepreneurship and it is clearly not a fraud by the Greek who attempts abroad. This is where the sensitive point lies. We must, as legislators, on the one hand encourage business outwards and on the other hand combat tax evasion. However, if we consider de facto taxly the person who is trying abroad, then not only will we see a foreign exchange influx, but we will force him to become a resident of another country. The procedures have now been simplified in several countries and this is now possible. Instead of seeking an ever-increasing statute in our legislative provisions, we bet more on prevention. To motivate companies to open up here, not to have Greeks look for more favourable legal, accounting and tax environments abroad. This is clearly difficult with the situation in which our country has arrived. The banks, according to Mrs Katseli's statements to the Committee on Economic Affairs, will return to normality after two to three years from now. Taxation is increasing, insurance costs too. Instead of simplifying our tax system, it is becoming increasingly complex. Even a foreign investor to come to invest in our country is looking to find a domestic partner who knows from Greece's legislative, tax and accounting reality. We have too many peculiarities and pathogens, which, for example, seem incredible in the mind of an average European or American citizen. As I have said before, the Central Association is opposed to your delays and hurricanes, regarding the harmonisation of international standards. With an amendment tabled in this draft law, the start of the implementation of specific provisions of the insolvency code is the 1-10-2016 exercise by the insolvency administrator. I note that according to a memorandum, the bankruptcy code should have changed by 1-1-2016. Another amendment provides that by May 2016 the measure of the withdrawal of cars will apply. As expected, new rates of exemption from the registration fee will apply for new passenger cars. This amendment admittedly settles the problem presented by the customs clearance of new cars and facilitates thousands of taxpayers, giving them additional incentives to replace their old vehicles with new cars and more economical. This is not just about the economic part of the case. It is about the general environmental awareness of all of us. The increase in the use of cars in the centre of towns is a major burden on the city - on environmental terms. Our environmental awareness is diffuse both in our planning positions and in the respective positions of our executives. Therefore, when we talk about cars, it should not be our only legislative incentive to introduce tax revenues into the public funds. The environment, ladies and gentlemen, precedes both the economy and our other activities. That is why we also need to encourage people with incentives, as in the present case, to replace their old cars with new ones, which have anti-pollution technology. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again that the Centro Association is not a protest party. We have entered Parliament and the central political scene to give solutions, not to play with impressions. That is why we are voting on whatever we consider positive for the country's smooth course. A path that will always be in the context of the European Union and the reliable institutions of the West. Ladies and gentlemen, the interest of our country, since we consider things rationally and wisely, you find yourself in our unfettered cooperation with Europe and the modern Western world. We support this draft law in principle and in articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much for the brief time, Mr Katsiantoni. We shall proceed with the two colleagues. Because they're two, they won't have to reduce their time. You'll have seven minutes. Mr. Dimitras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is incorporated into the National Law of Directives 2014/107 and 2015/121 until 2013/61. The bill provides opportunities for automatic exchange of information and is important to combat cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion. Tax evasion has taken a great deal of land into our country and is one of the wounds of maliciousness in the country's economy. Obviously, the bill will facilitate the limitation of tax evasion, but it is not enough. In addition, we need good tax mechanisms and well-trained staff. However, we also need the responsibilities of the Greek citizens. Each citizen must understand that when he tolerates his neighbor's tax evasion, it is not just the state that is concerned, indirectly, with him. We believed as Greeks that by dealing only with our homes and not with the public interest, we are protecting our own interests. And let the world burn. But it's not like that. Now we pay this indifference to the neighbor's illegality. Of course, the high theft of public money is done by tax manipulations of large speculators, which are also exploiting workers and the place, by avoiding tax payments. The SYRIZA Government and the partners - I say ANEL, but also the Green Egos, from where I come from - has an obligation on the Greek people to make areas of the tax system. The basic principle is the legal system of taxation, which will lead to a coherent society and a sustainable economy. Therefore, the tax system must take a few of the weak but many of the rich. It is therefore a way of redistributing wealth and supporting weaknesses. And there's support when we have taxes on good hospitals, good schools, good universities, security. Fair taxation takes place, firstly, with the progressive introduction of rates of taxation, with many scales, because now we know that there are a few scales or even publications that there will be three - four scales. Of course, the Minister in a previous debate that we held in committee said that for natural persons what I am saying will be implemented, because we want many tax scales, many rates, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%. We may have ten factors, reach 50%, perhaps more, for the big incomes of natural persons. Because when we tax the great wealth, it doesn't go to consumption. But give incentives to the money that goes to investment. Special treatment is needed in small businesses. My view is that the tax rates of the homogeneous companies must be much smaller than those of the U.S... In the U.N. The professional is involved with the responsibility and risk of losing his personal property, and we know that in the U.S. On many occasions, because the rules are different, they allow volcanoes to play games, with intentional bankruptcies at the expense of workers, suppliers and the public. They often do, when they do public works. The state also needs to finish the project, and they, with deliberate bankruptcies many times, are stagnating the state. Thirdly, the tax system rewards those who put their money to make productive investments and create permanent jobs and prevent luxury and polluting consumption. It was very right for the new colleague from the Central Association to point out that taxation must facilitate environmental protection and put an incentive on the part of those who are destroying the environment. Taxation must motivate young people, who are trying to create new businesses, namely not to tax young people who are creating, either social enterprises or other forms of productive cooperation in the first five years. Fourthly, at the morning joint meeting of the European Affairs and Finance Committees with the European MEPs, another colleague and I stressed the importance of fighting tax havens at European level. This in combination with offshore companies we know is the biggest wound of tax evasion in our country. Fifthly, the expatriation of companies for tax reasons. Here, Minister, we have to do something. When the tax rate in our neighbouring countries is 10% for businesses, when it is 12.5% in Cyprus, we need to find a way to prevent companies from being expatriated to other countries. We need to take the initiative for a uniform tax rate in the European Union - of course, I mean only companies, not natural persons - but also special measures with terms and restrictions in our country to prevent this phenomenon. I think that the government, with its new air, can make sectors in the tax system and other sectors in the economy, so that we can move forward as necessary so that we can change that country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou - has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority and Minister, who represent the government, on the basis of the legislative initiative which we are debating today at our National Representation, in your priorities, unfortunately, is not the resolution of the real problems of Greek society but the creation of impressions. This is not only demonstrated by your current legislative initiative. It turns out from last night's sitting with the House for too many hours, where the only thing that has finally been attempted was unwritten impressions and the total absence of politics has been confirmed. So now you are acting and being common hypocrites, gentlemen of the government. I'll explain that. When criticizing, one should substantiate it and bear the burden of proving what one says. Before I explain it, I will tell you a phrase about hypocrisy in politics, which Lenin said. So Lenin had said that honesty is a consequence of power, while hypocrisy is a consequence of weakness. So, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it turns out every day that you are politically weak, because you have no policy. How does that explain? You are pretending to be interested in the problems of citizens, but in reality you are constantly moving their solution backwards, not understanding the responsibility of political resolution, because you simply have no policy. I am therefore explaining the notion of hypocrisy in your policy, seeing the profile of your legislative initiative. To what is this legislative initiative? It is recommended that Greek legislation be adapted and that European Union directives be incorporated into it. Let's see now for a while what this means to you, the current government, with its composition, as it is known in Greek society. Dear friends Ministers and colleagues of the government majority, this means that once again the government recommends bills, which it itself, as an official opposition, had criticised, rejected, voted against. In other words, with both your roles - which is why I called you hypocrites - you damaged the country. With your institutional role, as an official opposition, you rejected, voted against and therefore damaged the country. In this case, with your institutional role as the government of the country, as the Greek people considered you should be, you are harming yourself because you are delaying the incorporation of the directives and, therefore, with the delay, with the loss of revenue, there is a damage to the Greek public interest and the problems of the citizens are being solved, which is also of no benefit to the Greek society. So with both of your roles you're injurious. But hypocrisy remains in your policy. You are zealous and rushing to solve the problems of the Greek people. Yes, though. No one believes in you because your practice - that is, your policy - disguises you. Now, just listen to what the legislative initiative is: European Union policies and directives, which were voted against to the extent, professionally and consistently, by SYRIZA as an eminent opposition, are currently evolving and returning to the form of amended directives. This party, SYRIZA, together with its government partners, has taken over the country's governance and discovers the realistic world of politics and that the European Union operates in rules, which it must incorporate and is now recommending as a government in our national institutional arsenal. I must therefore tell you that one of these directives is the cooperation of the Member States - very important - in the exchange of information in order to deal with tax evasion, tax evasion, but for days of opposition SYRIZA was taboo and it was impossible to vote on it. Do you know with what argument, gentlemen of the government and gentlemen of the government majority? It was impossible to vote because SYRIZA had great sensitivity on personal data issues. Today, normally, the entire SYRIZA Parliamentary Group should be here, and one - a Member of Parliament, in turn, as he elected his MPs as the first party in the last elections, should be apologyd here and said: 'I made a mistake, when I was in the military opposition, which I voted against and rejected instructions which I recommend today, through my Government, and I am voting for by my absence as a government majority because I have damaged the place'. Nobody! A few are the braves here who didn't even speak. Only one of them dared. So I'm telling you another cryptic. SYRIZA once was unable to speak - he says - in favour of the OECD agreement on economic and tax cooperation. Today, however, it incorporates it and well it does. But I'm telling you something else about the OECD. You do not read there, the financial staff, that we are champions - world champions! - in percentage of employee wages - those who are still working in the country - and are you not studying there to the Government that EUR 6 to EUR 10 - are elements of the OECD, which it publishes - going to taxes and levies? In other words, a worker with two children must tell you that he consumes 43.4% of his wage in taxes and contributions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, Mr President, I shall end with this - and I shall join with the rapporteur, on behalf of the New Democracy, in his suggestion. I'll say there's a second problem, which I want to highlight at the National Representation. It is not only enough to incorporate European Union directives under pressure, with delay, by losing revenue and causing damage every day as low as you are. Even late, you brought it. You need to make sure. And the question I ask the ministers, who are responsible, is: have you prepared the administration to implement them? Because, in the context of the effectiveness of the law, the administration must be prepared. Do you have the staff? Is he sufficient? Have you prepared the services, administration and executive bodies to have the appropriate means to implement these directives? So this is about efficiency in politics, and there I also think you are extremely weak. In any case, Mr President - and I close with this - we, and from the position of the government and the opposition officer, prove that we mean what we believe ideologically and politically and apply them from any position. We apply what Lenin once said - to close as I started - that honesty is a power in politics. We are strong in the New Democracy, we are honest, clean with the citizens, while hypocrisy is a consequence of political weakness and, unfortunately, so far you have proved yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the Parliament is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and two educational sessions from the 5th High School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I will give the floor to the Minister, Mr Paradoxopoulos, to defend one of the two proposed amendments. Is that five minutes enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u127	Of course, Mr President. Thank you so much for giving me the floor. The amendment is an amendment to the recent L.4336/2015 and already amended by L.4356/2015. It is the legislation with which we have introduced a new bankruptcy law in the country, namely the main axes of a new bankruptcy legislation, which has as its main feature the acceleration of procedures and the faster re-entry of the poor into the economy, society and the market. The legislation in question provided that, as from 1 April, a new person with a new function, known as the ‘solvency manager’, would have to be in the position of the old very well-known judiciary and the intermediary. In order for the insolvency administrator to be ready to carry out his duties and duties, there should be a presidential decree setting out the essential conditions for the exercise of this profession, the way in which the profession is organised, the appointment, the cessation and the establishment of a register and other procedures for implementing and implementing the new regulations, which, until 1 April, would not be ready until tomorrow. There has been a struggle, but there has still to be some further steps to make the new system ready. And so, which is foreseen, is that the insolvency administrator will take office as of 1 October 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, I would like to clarify what the Minister said. I can ask him why he's leaving?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u130	Ask for clarification before the Minister leaves because he is involved in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and, as you can see, he cannot be missed much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u131	Minister, because you were away at my place this morning and will shortly be leaving again, in addition to the six-month extension you are giving, you are abolishing the professional register and the registration requirement. If you read, you'll see. Why is the professional record abolished, as provided for in L.4336? It's not just the six-month extension you're giving. Remove and create the professional register and at the same time register insolvency managers. That is what I want you to clarify, so that we can vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u132	As far as I know, as far as the business register is concerned, we have no change beyond this, at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u133	Let us clarify why this proposal has been removed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u134	Mr Minister, you have time until the voting time is over, that is, an hour and something.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u135	Sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u136	Look at it with one of your partners.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u137	I'll make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u138	They'll explain to us whether this was a mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Besyropoulou, that's what I'm saying. Don't substitute me. I say he will give it to his partner and before the voting time comes, he will have answered you so that you know what you and all of us are voting on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u141	I will give Mr Alexiadis the floor with a relative reduction in time and then the parliamentary representatives will begin. I would like to ask them to do a favor for Mr Dannellis, because he must accompany Mr Theodorakis at the meeting with the ACK Cyprus at 15.00 a.m., before going beyond the parliamentary series.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u142	No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u143	I have your consent. Thank you. [[Applause]] Minister, I give you the floor for twelve minutes - you have asked me less - but with tolerance, if you need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll try to be quick. Besides, I think everything has been said. I must thank the Members of all the parties, because in this bill we have a broad consensus, a large majority. I would remind you that the representatives of SYRIZA, the New Democracy, the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, the Independent Greeks and the Centron Association have welcomed them. After all, these provisions create a very positive field for tackling tax evasion and smuggling and, as I have said, it is very important that there should be a broad front at Parliament level on these issues. As we speak of consensus and cooperation, I think it is important, and what the representative of the New Democracy said in his speech, that a solution is being found to the VAT issue in the Mayotte Islands, and that we need to see something similar here as well. Of course, it is very positive that there should also be cooperation on the issues of tax havens and on the issues of tax competition that we are facing as a country, especially at our northern borders, because we cannot simply continue to monitor this situation and we cannot do what we need to do as a country, so that we can taxly protect our businesses. Of course, I will not accept criticism of the issue of VAT and the accusation against the government regarding VAT on the Aegean islands. Let me remind you that VAT for the Aegean Islands is the result of two laws, of Law No.4334, passed by two hundred twenty-nine MPs, and of Law No.4336/2015, passed by two hundred twenty-one MPs. Some of you would be to the people you voted for. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, now that these provisions are being implemented, that we are being criticised, because we are going to implement these provisions that we have all voted on together. And because there was also a criticism of what SYRIZA was voting on in the past in relation to the directives, that is one thing that we hear here all the time. I think we should talk about this for the last time and not come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u145	He's always coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u146	To have as much debate as you want on this issue, namely what we were voting on, what we were talking about, but at some point there must be a response to what we said to them, who voted a few months ago on important provisions and now come and criticise the government, who is trying to implement these provisions. Because at this point we are now. We accept a criticism of the negotiating issue, as if we in the title of our policy were 'taxes, taxes and taxes', which is not true. We are obliged to pursue an economic and social policy, within the framework of a specific agreement adopted by the large majority of this House. And you are now coming to criticise what the government is trying to implement without tabling your own different solution. I have said before that I respect those who reject all the logic of the two agreements and say that we are not interested in all of this, we propose something else, sometime we can see this political account and talk about it. However, those who have accepted this framework are now coming and criticised when we are negotiating this very framework? Because it is clear - and we have said it as a government - that the government is negotiating in the framework of the agreement. We do not do what previous governments have done, and we add other issues to the negotiations. So what we are doing - I will say for the last time the argument - is the implementation of No.4336/2015, which was voted on by two hundred and twenty-one Members, even if some of them today come and criticize us because we are implementing what we have voted on. As far as this bill is concerned, I will say very few things, because most of the Members of the parties and of the majority and of the minority, who agree on this bill, have said so adequately. But I, as Minister of Finance, have to recommend it. An earlier directive on automatic exchange of information is amended by this directive. Thus, we will have no more information exchange through one country's request to another, but we will have an automatic exchange of information, which is an important means of dealing with cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion and will contribute to a more efficient and efficient collection of taxes. In addition, the OECD was instructed by the G20 team to set up a single standard for automatic exchange of information, which was completed in September 2014. Let me open a parentheses here. We have heard criticism in relation to the security of information management. It is something that we take very seriously and we too have too many anxietys and concerns on these issues. This does not mean, however, that fear of the safety of the management of information and databases should prevent us from fighting and to make the databases safer, particularly the movement of information, but also to move forward with the movement of information. For these lists - for which I will say below, let no one hurry to smile - that we have and give us valuable revenue is precisely the result of this exchange of information. In addition, a coherent and integrated approach to automatic exchange of information within the European Union, as well as aligning its scope with international developments, will contribute to minimising costs and administrative burdens for tax administrations and economic operators. The new Directive extends the scope of automatic exchange of information since Member States, in addition to information on specific categories of income and capital, will also share information on a reporting account for tax years from 2016 onwards. This means that the Greek financial institutions will provide the Ministry of Finance with information on natural persons or entities that are beneficiary of an account, on the basis of reporting and due diligence rules consistent with the OECD common standard. I do not wish to repeat what has been said in this House and what has been heard in the Committee on Economic Affairs, but I do not want to take any more of your time. I want to finish with regard to the bill and the automatic exchange of information, with a general observation. It shows us where the tax services will move next time. Because we have identified the great wealth due to tax evasion, smuggling and corruption phenomena that some abroad have and will enable us to locate this wealth, hunt him down and collect the greatest possible revenue we can get from this wealth. Let them be sure that those who are fighting for what they have abroad that both these directives and the actions that we have taken so far and the incorporation in these directives and the new FATCA directive that will start - and we have already done very good action in this direction - create an institutional framework that enables tax services to use and collect very large sums. After all, we have the last time in the Treasury - it was mentioned in the debate the other day - where with documents that have come from abroad, we now have data on large tax evasion cases, on large tax fugitives, who, I see, are very pleased to see, can find their money from loan and pay what is being charged to them by the prosecutors. I will now say about the other articles beyond the directive, namely Article 10. Article 10, as I have said in committee, is the extension given to the issue of net lending orders relating to the Public Investment Programme for specific reasons, for organisational reasons and for others, as I have explained to the Committee on Economic Affairs. It's an ID regulation. It takes place almost every year and I call on you to vote on it. In relation to Articles 11 and 12 on the identification of the issues of the rental of cars, this has come from a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union, where we now have a new framework. We are forced - and it is right - to implement this framework in order not to activate the provisions and to have fines because of not taking the necessary measures from our country and so we are moving forward. From now on, the registration fee for the current passenger cars is imposed proportionately, that is, depending on how long someone will have it in our country. If someone has paid the full registration fee, because he did not know how long he would use the car, he can get back the registration fee when he finishes using it in a particular process. Finally, as far as the amendment on the issue of the withdrawal of cars is concerned, first of all, I should like to clarify a criticism that is heard and heard again in connection with alleged delays. This criticism of me to understand, although the one who tabled it is not here to listen to it, and I imagine it will be briefed by the Minutes, for those who have no idea how a government works. But it is clear that the amendments we bring here are the result of a negotiation. This negotiation does not end automatically one day. This particular story is something that we have started very early but it is now over. For some people who are in a hurry to end something very early, if something ends too early, they will be more unfavourable than what is currently being discussed. So it is a typical example of this amendment that through a successful negotiation - dialogue, we have achieved a measure that gives an answer to these issues. As far as the measure is concerned, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, I would stress that the measure extends the withdrawal procedure until 20 May 2016 with the opportunity to settle all matters until 31 May 2016 and settles the cars that have been bought in the previous period in order to have the favourable provisions of the law. This is a great opportunity for Greek citizens to take advantage of it, because this withdrawal process cannot be eternal. Other legislation will come because it has started in the Ministry of Finance and the Interministerial Committee on Car Taxation is working, and so we will have other provisions that will generally resolve the issues of cars, make the framework more specific, tighter and close this story. We therefore call on the Greek citizens to take advantage of this process and to deal with these issues. I'm closing up with two remarks. We hear an ongoing criticism of the government of incapacity issues. This criticism of hearing it from parties that did not exercise power, of listening to it and, indeed, of bowing to this criticism. But to listen to criticism of the issues of taxation, from officials and from parties that exercised power from New Democracy, PASOK, and Potami? I think that the person who makes this criticism must also testify to a comparison, that is, what we have done in this very difficult year with negotiation, with closed banks, with capital controls, with all these problems and what they have done in recent years. Because some want to forget where we move and say: 'What does the government do in tax evasion, in smuggling?' I should like to remind you that in these areas the Government is implementing a specific timetable set by Law No.4336. In many areas it is good because it provides for many measures to strengthen services and combat tax evasion and smuggling. In some other areas, of course, it has problems that we are discussing in the negotiation and we do not have the logic that 'fast - quickly finish whatever agreement, anyway'. But for the whole tax policy, and because we hear a criticism many times that we do not inform, we do not give the figures, say to us: When have I been following tax matters since 1980 - the House has had so much information, had documentation, tables, replies with all the information on all the issues of tax policy? For those who are still complaining, we have clearly stated to the Committee on Economic Affairs that we will organise a debate, when the helmet of all these issues is over, so that we can have the time and the opportunity to discuss effectively and in detail, to explain exactly what we have done on fiscal policy, to document and say what we are planning. There will also be an opportunity for the finance ministers in various positions - either in the form of MPs or other members - to come and tell us what they did at the same time. Finally, I should like to conclude by saying that I have an obligation to this House. My name was mentioned too many times in the discussion on the 29th of the month. I did not, however, want to delay the whole procedure for one minute, and I did not want to give the floor to this. I did not ask for the floor on personal grounds. With a statement from me today, which has been posted on the website of the Ministry of Finance at minfin.gr, I give an answer to what has been heard. First of all, there was an atom from this Step. A document was filed in Parliament, which, in order to prove the so-called frugality of the government, compares the nine-month period of 2015 with the twelve months of previous years. You know in politics, rush is very bad, whether it's left or right-hand rush. It's bad for some to be in a hurry and bring us evidence here about nine months to compare 12 months. Ladies and gentlemen, the data will normally come from the GDR and from the ILO in the official form of the House for this comparison. What I have to testify to today is that from the data we have from the certificate, that is, from the result of controls in 2014 to 2015, from the figures provided by the General Secretariat of Public Income, not the Alexiadis press office that does not have even - because I do not have a journalist in my office and we do well to do that, we do not have to load our offices - not from a colleague of Alexiadis but from the GDR, it appears that in 2014 after checks on the Lagard list, 26,620,000, i.e. average taxes, fines, surcharges etc. per case of 655,000 euros, while in 2015 we were supposed to be incapable, that we were delayed by a thousand two things, instead of 26,620,000, we confirmed 175,000, with an average attestation per case of 1,772,000. The figures are not just overwhelming but show precisely the result of political will, competence and the organization of services. For those who do not rush to blame any more, I tell them that these figures are 2015, because the 2016 figures show that in this story on the Lagard list, there were taxpayers who were assured of 3.3 million for their case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u147	You normally took your time, but I would also like to ask you, to get the answer Mr. Juliarakis has signed to Mr. Stagira, who says "no, 26 million were confirmed in 2014, 26 million were collected" and even says where they were made. In the broad sense they have been made available to social purposes. For 2015, he says that 4 million were invaded and 3.5 million were made available. The rest of you did not get there because of the financial year and, of course, they did not get lost in the general koruna. He says they've been collected. I read it with my eyes. He says they've been collected.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, if I may, I would like to speak for less than a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u149	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u150	I know very well what Mr. Juliarakis said. He's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u151	Yeah, what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u152	I'll tell you. In the debate that will take place in the Committee on Economic Affairs, all the information will come. We compare different things. The bill, and that's different, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u153	What I saw in the answer, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u154	I'll tell you. As far as the subject of the Lagard list is concerned, because it is a case that several cases are brought to court, which is why I referred to a certificate. I always want to make an account of what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u155	Between attestation and collection, the difference is huge. Is there any evidence from the receipts, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u156	Yes, but I too have explained with Mr. Juliaraki's answer, so that we don't create any impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, we have finished our protagonists. My colleague, Mr Antoniou, as usual, and I think he is entitled to do so, will speak lastly as a Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, because he may wish to reply. Mr. Dendia, we have made a concession to Mr. Danellis because he has to go to a meeting with the ACP and Mr. Theodorakis, before eight minutes and then you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u159	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your understanding and your colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the dear Minister for the criticism he has just made in Potami, saying that we are not entitled to criticise the government adequacy, to remind him that the Potami has not been tested in the country's governance, so we can be critical, because we do not have the opportunity to clear a review.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u162	Well, don't grab yourself in words. All right, he was referring to your rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u163	Yes, but because it is a generalised remark, that is why I wanted to refer to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u164	It's the clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u165	Also, the unfavourable economic environment in which you are moving and for which you are asking for our understanding is, of course, unfavourable, unfavourable. But the extra difficulties created did not come from the good will as a rainbow. The banks didn't close themselves. The Capital Controls didn't have to be imposed by some third parties. So given all this, we have to judge our reality. I now come to what I wanted to say. If, ladies and gentlemen, a third party were to follow us the day before yesterday's debate, it would understand that Greece firmly refuses to reconcile itself with reality. Here on earth’s navel, as we believe, things seem to be moving differently, at other paces and with other priorities. It is no coincidence that the new director of the Athens and Epidaurus Festival, Jan Fabre, at the press conference he gave yesterday, converted the Greek festival into the Belgian presence of the Minister of Culture, which certainly did not have any argument, as it proved to be supporting Greece's cultural identity. The crisis in Greece is very flat. I think we all accept that, because we have said so many times. It is not only economic, it is above all cultural, and in this context the Ministry of Culture should be working for years now - timely is the issue - for an integrated cultural policy, instead of playing with impressions and heavy transport. These are lost opportunities like this, which we once again postponed the real debate on justice, and we have confined ourselves to a bad impression theatre. Instead of looking for institutional ways of dealing with inter-terrorism and corruption, since, of course, it is a timeless problem that is burdening the backs of our political system, instead of insisting on strengthening the separation of powers, which is a key feature of the functioning of democracy and the independence of the institutions between them, we have once again proved contemptuous that micro-party purposes are the ones that have the absolute priority. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you say you want to hit the complexion and corruption. In this war, you have the greatest weapon, the good legislature. I, too, risk being handwritten by other colleagues, such as the President-in-Office, who kept saying "Carthago delenda est" but my own "Carthago delenda est" is the "legislate right". If, indeed, you want to use it to protect transparency, democracy and ultimately democracy. You are, after all, an absolute legislative initiative. You have had and had the opportunity to do everything that others didn't do in the past, and you rightly criticise them for that. For example, instead of mocking the 'DENMARK' today, we are expanding it. But you're still on the known pattern. Protesting bills, legislative acts that we are bringing to the House in a retrospective sense of legality, a multitude of unrelated and many times delayed amendments, even in the incorporation of directives, or like yesterday's sanctions for contracts. These are unprecedented institutional diversions that make the legislation of the previous governments seem exemplary. Of course, the pattern 'complexing is of others' is no longer convinced by anyone. But also your attitude to direct intervention in the work of justice is angered. There have always been attempts to influence judicial authority by the executive, behind-the-spot, dark but sporadic, stigmatized by the respective rulers who attempted these interventions. This time, however, evil seems to be extrapolated. It seems to be a central political option, but it is far from the government's practice in the mature democracies of the West. These statusal concepts are more reminiscent of Latin American democracies or newly developed democracies in the former Eastern Europe. It is incomprehensible that any ministerial intervention in the decisions and work of justice officials is incomprehensible. Have you not yet learned that public speech, particularly those with institutional positions, is of particular importance and creates a climate and trends? Just as the Minister of Finance's statements can suppress the Stock Exchange or upload the spreads by confusing the economy, just as a statement by the relevant Minister can create irreparable damage to justice. The Ice Bay prosecutor cannot be forced to respond to unfounded objections and unfounded complaints by a party chief and minister involved in the government. This is a red line, which, from the perspective of the executive, must never be invaded. The constitutional limits must be complied with without delay, otherwise they are created with a fait accompli, which promises the proper functioning of the constitution today and tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that we can only agree on the minimums, giving a very bad example to society. Politics has an important educational role in society and in the public, and we do not take this into account. However, on the one hand, the unreliability of the political system is widened and, on the other hand, we are making people believe that complex problems are solved with blocs and mud launches. We are harming Parliament with the picture we are giving as a Parliament, as it seems that we are not aware of the difficulty of times and the criticality of moments. The Qualified Opposition considers that we have the luxury of talking about elections, because it seems to be in the public eye. She does not wonder what will happen in the middle or immediately thereafter with all the issues open and what exactly has changed in these fourteen months for herself, which will make her more prepared to govern. What contradictions did she solve? Are the counter-motion of roles within the adequate treaty of successful rulership, or is it following the swept, closing the eye on the citizens, with inexpensive promises? Reflecting the rotation of parties in power is not enough to promote reforms, which is our big issue, our great void. Also, opportunism is not the best counsellor. How else can I interpret the fact that on Monday, March 28, presenting ideas for the Revision of the Constitution, it was in favour of stable electoral circles, while on Tuesday, March 29, in the pre-dated debate, Mr Mitsotakis asked for an election of six and a half months only after the last? I think that such tools are not available enough for the way out of today's deadlock, except for the occupation of power. We still consider self-awareness to be an enemy. It is a general situation which does not concern us. We must admit that we cannot yet speak the language of truth, how much more we should address the Greek people, informing him of what we have in front of us and what we should do. Minister, where are we in relation to the other, the big issue, the major issue today, the refugee, immigration? Of course, I imagine that we should all understand that such a problem is not solved by charity or by words of support. Or do we still believe that the participation of the solidaritys, which have taken on the main role of all kinds of solidarity, solves the problem? I'm afraid the mixture of naive confrontations with various dark types is starting to become explosive. Yesterday's incidents in Idomen, Piraeus and the path of immigrants in the center of Athens through a dangerous manipulation and use, prove this. The use of despair can lead to very dangerous and uncontrolled perverts. Take this into account and take full account of your responsibilities before things catch up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u166	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, has the floor. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all I feel obliged to begin my position with praise for you, in your style, at least, at the National Representation. I note - and you will allow me to note - that you always sit in the second row, in contrast to a number of your fellow Members, who are the Undersecretaries, sitting nicely in the chair of the Prime Minister of Greece. I would like the modesty of your presence to be combined with the modesty and modesty of yours. That's where I'm afraid I can't continue the commendation, I'm gonna have to cut him off. First of all, thankfully, the President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr Kaklamanis, saved me from having to point out the difference between receipt and confirmation. You know her professionally very well. But besides, if anyone listened to you, Minister, I think that with their eyes closed, and if it had no sense of time and space, he would think he was in another country. You have sought a comparison with previous times and you have said that we are doing much better. Where? What environment? And you have invoked the capital controls and the closure of the banks, i.e. failures, errors, damages, which your government has brought to the Greek economy. You really remind me of the children's anecdotes of Bombu, who, to go on an orphanage trip, killed his parents, and when he was arrested and taken to the juvenile court, asked for mercy because he was an orphan. These aren't serious things. Do you close the banks and then tell us you're operating in an unfavourable climate? Or are you questioning that you closed the banks? [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] The overall situation in the country - you were told before the River Parliamentary Representative - I think it is a little tragic. Mr. Mitsotakis from Stepmas yesterday described Greece and described it sufficiently. The northern border is closed. The eastern border open. Idomeni, where the humanism of the Greeks sinks into the mud. The moral advantage of your government has already sunk in the mud. The security issues of the country under discussion. Generally, a situation of general tragic nature! Also, a treatment of the Greek citizen as a tax balance. in which the only solution is to impose new taxes and new taxes and higher taxes and new insurance contributions. You did try to weight these provisions, to place it under the shoulder of Vice-Population, Officer and Elise, because you said: "You have worked together and voted, in any case, in the summer to save the country. So it means that you've given us a white check, to impose taxes, it's too much." Targets have been passed, Minister. No policies were adopted. I have to tell you this. You haven't made a single cut in public spending so long. On the contrary, you are depleting your humanism by hiring ounces - of different kinds of subordinates - and then sending the bill through taxes to the Greek citizen. That's your policy. However, because I am not only reasonable to blame the government, I have to tell you that there have also been mistakes and many mistakes in our day. If you want, too many tax provisions on both our own days do not seek honor neither in the law of our country nor in our government. Also too many Circulars of your Ministry do not seek honor either in our law or in our government. But you repeat the errors in the hands. The Government is hereby revoked for the continuation of the limitations. Are these serious things? In which country can the limitations be extended continuously? Where do we live? Or the way of tax controls on the circulars that have been passed on the days of ours. Is it possible for a country to create a sense of trust for its citizens with this regime? The time I have does not allow me to extend to them, but you know them. You know them well for me. They have to change all these things, and in any case you have to decide what model economy you want. Because they're talking to your executives. Mr Tsakalotos, who has new - Marxist perceptions but strange practice to implement them, shows that the problem of the Greek economy is a problem of demand. There is no - he says - enough money in the economy. That's not accurate. It's only partly accurate. Of course there is not enough money in the economy but primarily the problem of the Greek economy is a problem of supply. There is no production of sufficient products. That is why every time money falls on the market, what happens is that exports and the problem remain. However, let me temporarily adopt your model of demand. Yes, sir. If there is a demand issue, namely a lack of liquidity, how do you impose new taxes and increase insurance contributions? How are these two things compatible? Where will economic growth come from then? From the investors who will come to Greece, after you have increased all the tax rates? Who in the minds of the international investor can trust a government that contradicts so much in its thinking? The problem here is very deep. It is an economic model problem and you must be honest about it. It's also a problem of management adequacy of your government. Also, you must be honest with that. Because that government is in no way favorable, no matter how diligent one wants to see it, no matter how sympathetic one wants to see it, he does not have any achievements, which he can produce and for which he can boast for fifteen months now. This is unfortunately the reality. I would point out twice that, unfortunately, I was one of those who sincerely wished your government every success. So we need to find a solution to the drama. Because I have listened carefully to the President-in-Office of the Council, who has indicated his incompatibility with Mr Mitsotakis, how he is in favour of the stable government and on the other hand asking for elections. The answer is one and only. The salvation of the patron is the supreme law. We have appreciated after 15 months that your waiting in power is more detrimental to society, to the place, to the country, to the citizens, than to your removal. Of course, quick elections are damage to the place. No one says anything else. Of course, it's a turbulence. Of course, it's uncertain. Your stay in power, however, is not only unrest and uncertainty, it is also a constant and lasting disaster. And what you bring here is just another stone in the grave of the Greek economy. Of course, this piece of legislation, which we shall vote on, is not your legislation. It is a directive that comes, a directive which, when it came up properly on the days of our government - this is the amended version - you, your party, voted against it - if possible! - because you voted against everything. You voted against what was at stake, what was proposed. You have voted against the provisions on asylum, on the protection of immigrants. You have voted against everything. You have just voted against, as you are actually voting in favour of. What the Quartet - former troika gives you - you are voting in favour of it and you are pretending that you are negotiating it, which you are not negotiating. Time is delaying and the arrangements that are coming are constantly worse than the previous ones. I'm sorry to say - and I'm finishing - that country is in a dead end, in a total stalemate! We will continue as a Qualified Opposition to do our constitutional duty to rely on what we can on the government to save the country, society and the people. That is why we are voting today. However, on the substance of the matter, what we are addressing is no longer a request but a universal request from society, it is one: go! And if you don't want to go, you don't believe it, let's go to elections to get kicked off by the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u168	Mr Paradoxopoulos has the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. It is a clarification of the amendment which I proposed about an hour ago. Mr Teddy and other colleagues have made it clear that the text which is currently being proposed from my side, beyond the time limit of 1 April on 1 October, we also have the removal of a condition that is to be registered in a professional register. That's true, but regulatoryly, nothing changes. With the abolition of this condition, the adoption of a Presidential Decree now applies in general terms. It lays down formal and substantive conditions for exercising the operator's profession, which also covers the register as a prerequisite. However, it also covers two other conditions, which are already in the shape of the Presidential Decree, namely the existence of a licence and the verification of the conditions for the issue of that licence. It will therefore continue to apply the professional register provided for by the Presidential Decree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u170	Then why...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u171	Because there was fear of controversy. Since only one formal condition was mentioned, there was a fear that they could not be introduced by a presidential decree on the basis of legislative powers and other conditions. That fear moved us, Mr. Teddy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u172	We will accept it in your statement. We don't have time to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u173	We will accept this in your statement that the professional register will be provided for by a Presidential Decree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty two students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th High School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Evangelos Karakostas has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u175	Transparency and tax evasion issues. And they speak of those who have created these issues! It would be advisable not to talk about them, because everyone except the Golden Dawn is exposed to the eyes of the Greek people. To speak specifically, to use the famous lists - a result of zero. Memorandum memorial measures are coming, which should not only be charged to SYRIZA - ANEL, but also to those who voted in August 2015, deceiving the Greek people and saying that, if we do not vote for a memorandum, the country is destroyed. And now, the Greek people, and not the political class that is tyrannically dominating our people, will have to pay the marble. They are therefore measures of 5.5 billion and 6 billion which come and include, of course, increases in taxes, increases in diesel fuel, gasoline, at the end of the traffic. And it's a long list. So what's going on? What is happening instead of saving the country, which was supposed to come with your memorandum, is the economic equilibrium of every production activity in the country. And where does this economic equilibrium lead? It clearly leads to the disappearance of the free professionals - that is, craftsmen, traders - but also farmers, the backbone of the Greek nation. You are mocking the world with constant extensions, which do not solve but displace problems, which - as I said before - you have created. And what each is aware of is that you are not just amateurs but extremely dangerous. And that is not just about the country's economic issues. The Deputy Minister of Citizen Protection, Mr. Toskas, a few days ago, confirmed that following the terrorist strike in Brussels there is no question of Greek security. What do we see today? There are episodes, terrible episodes in all the hot spots and those that you call "refugees" and we "broken immigrants", we see them solve their differences even with knives. And the good news isn't that these witnesses report them without evidence. There are photographic documentaries. Get into any media today and see photos. There are serious injuries, therefore, in the property of Greeks, individuals, but also damage to public property. And what's the police doing? He's just an observer. Why? Because he has clear and explicit instructions from the government. He is, therefore, an observer of developments. We ask: Why doesn't the police apply the law to hot spots? Are these hosting centres - 'hosting centres' which the reason says, because here we are not talking about hosting some people for a certain period of time, here we are talking about a timeframe before their permanent establishment in Greece - is a state in a state? A clear question, so that we don't lie down and say things vaguely and generally. We, as Golden Dawn, render the reality experienced by Greeks every day and tell you that you have made Greece a paradise of the immunity of illegal immigrants and a kingdom of terror and economic impoverishment for Greeks. The only political force that can and has the power to prevent the upcoming destruction, which is certain, is the People's Association - Golden Dawn. We heard the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative before. He spoke to the SYRIZA - ANEL Government as if he did not bear any responsibility for this sad fate of the country, for which he is, of course, responsible and his prolongation along with other political forces for forty years. And in the end we blame the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, because, as we have said before, it is not the new one, but the scoundrels of the New Democracy and PASOK. To tell the Greek people the truth! So the neo-democrats have the courage to ask the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to leave. We nationalists, listening to the will of the Greek people, say: "Get away all because you are all the same and do the same non-national crimes". We therefore call on the Greek people to support the Golden Dawn for finally taking our homeland back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the dates of the adoption of the directives we are currently in force here, you will see dates in this case 2013, 2014 basically and corresponding other ministries, other issues similarly. What are the instructions? Are the legislative texts adopted by the institutions of the European Union which simply come here to political forces, governments, to the House, which have not made any contribution to their adoption, in order to approve them or not to approve them? No, obviously not. The most recent Member knows that what is being introduced as a Community directive is the product of a government for each country - member of the European Union and in this respect our own, as is the case with the other Member States. On this issue, which is about exchanging information in relation to tax matters, the work we are doing here today is a previous government's work on the dates that come from the very body of the text you have here. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? That is why we are all saying 'yes' here today, some have worked in a previous phase of pre-confliction, with the opposition in the bars shouting and saying things like what is heard here today by some people. We are therefore talking about compulsory exchanges of information on tax matters, as the previous government agreed to adopt a directive on this subject in the field of the European Union. These are our jobs, our things, our policies, which have taken the form of regulations with the specific instructions of the civil opposition at the time to throw stones and to blame us. Do you mind if we remind you, Minister? We can't help reminding you. It's a recent memory. It can't be done. We will recall that because we have to draw a good conclusion here, which we will have in Greek society, a Greek society that experimented with you and must not be experimented with another magician, who, according to his arguments, will manage the financial problems of the crisis by providing a tenth-third pension and so on. Our magicians are over, Minister. And the so-called magicians' complaint will be made here every day to be inspired. And it would help so much if you asked for an apology. You were told by some people who left when you brought the memorandum. They told you: "We have contemplated our political opponents. Why? To bring in a memorandum?’ We have to finish with the demagogues. But to finish, assumptions must be made. We are not simply finishing because we say a few words to Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just the work done by previous governments, the crisis in the European Union. There's what we did here. Ladies and gentlemen, when we think about money we get from taxmen, who were on lists, do you understand through what mechanism? You have understood - you know - the MPs of today's majority that there is an established system that enables a competent prosecutor to negotiate with the person identified on a tax-free list and say to him: ‘Will you pay? Give it to me. Are you going to set up? Set it up. If you pay, you're free. If arrangements are made, we'll see them with grace. If you don't set it up, you're going in.” And from this threat, people pay. When did this happen? In 2015? They've happened for these days. And you were hitting us and you weren't voting for them. When was the institution - yesterday - in the debate on corruption, the speakers were invoked by the economic prosecutor, the prosecutor against corruption, whom you have constantly invoked? When did this happen? This was done by previous governments. And this measure was taken on the PASOK government without any cooperation. When the measures were taken - did Mr Koutsoukos say so - to remove bank and tax confidentiality? From you? You voted against it. They took place on our own governments. When did the property tax which were the main offshore companies? Nowadays this has been done. When did the Independent Anti-Counterfeiting Authority become a criminal actor? From our own governments. In order to get to grips with some other issues - they are not here Members of the most philosopher, but in the air, Greek party, but I have to say it because it is a party that mentions names and is being taken over - when was it brought before the justice of more surnamed public persons? When? Between 2009 and 2011. But we're not prosecutors. We're politicians. We are not dirty politicians, who are doing here the smart meddling people who are still indicted. We're serious politicians. We're doing our job. We helped justice take her action. And he took it. And we're proud to say that what they were blaming us for was wrong. Despite all the problems of time hesitation and scandals, which are the consequence of power, we have in our CV to say that on the government of PASOK and Minister Haris Kastanides and Miltiades Papaioannou, most of them were brought before justice rather than ever names. To make things clear and to be explained. What are you doing here? I do not want to blame Mr Paradise, but today he has brought us an amendment to postpone the application until October 2016 of a regulation relating to the register of insolvency administrators. Is it a question of corruption? Oh, no. However, it is a matter of normal functioning of a normal state that this register will be valid. Yesterday what did we vote here, colleagues? Yesterday we voted against legislation against the legislation in force since 1995, for twenty-one years, on the supply of the Armed Forces to fuel? That's what we did. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Minister told us that this was because, he says, PASOK did not send a representative to the relevant intergroup on procurement, which exists within the Ministry of Development. And, indeed, he spoke very badly. Please testify to the FEK in July 2015, where we have appointed a member. And if there is a problem - if there is - because none of us were aware - there will be for the current year, where there may well be a weakness, to complete it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As has proved, however, from the course of the parliamentary debate yesterday, where a party does not define it, it is covered by the Court of Auditors. And if, in any case, the Court of Auditors, with what has been done in its yearbook, is reluctant, we, if we have not defined, shall nominate a representative tomorrow morning. Will you get back to the fuel supply provision in the way that the majority of the House yesterday, with the complaint of the entire Opposition, voted? What else did you do yesterday? A rapid night arrangement for compensatory benefits, which is the wound to the problems of the Armed Forces with regard to corruption. What else did you do? The Ministry of National Defence without competitions - not even short, quick - supply of all the products they need - and food issues - to cover hot spots and other centres where refugees and immigrants are gathered. You already have a record of opacity institutions, Minister, in your own situation - not to repeat them, because my time has passed - on the performances, on the control mechanisms for the Lagard list. A recent table was also given by Mr. Juliarakis. And you have the Prime Minister say other things. Your Minister, Mr Nikoloudis, before you eat it, said that it is very difficult to get money from tax evasion. What do you think? When you blamed the others? I'll take first-year delays for the Lagard list. But we must consult in this Chamber. The class exchange doesn't lead anywhere. But we also need to have a whole mind. The Greek public administration has its problems. And this administration oversees any political leadership that the people show...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u178	Come on, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u179	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u180	Shortness is wisdom.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u181	Well, however, there are too many issues, and abbreviation is censorship, Mr President. I'm not saying you're doing this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u182	Am I judging you with 50% more time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u183	And as you say, the Chamber is empty, the Chamber is talking with great courtesy and without conflict, it is overcoming last night's fiasco and you must give it the opportunity to express itself. Few Members have spoken. We're given time. You can't want to interrupt me. Anyway, I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote for the ratification of the directives. As far as the amendments are concerned, our position was determined by what Mr Koutsoukos said as rapporteur for the Democratic Alliance and will be specified in our position during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister, Mr Alexiadis, a moment ago, speaking from this Stepma, claimed that the incorporation of directives into Greek law would form a very positive field for the fight against tax evasion and smuggling. Of course, we are dealing with an update of directives already in force. So a reasonable question, Minister, which is not only addressed to the Greek Government but also to the European Union, would be as follows: what were the results of the implementation of these directives so far on the issue of combating tax evasion? A report by the competent services of the European Union and the General Secretariat for Income. What have they done so far? Because the publications that exist are that the tax evasion of large multinationals in recent years has been gigantic. The tax exemption, the tax evasion of large multinationals, and at the same time, are created within European territory, as mushrooms, areas with special tax regimes, so-called 'tax havens'. From this point of view, is it not a hypocrisy of all this shape that you are trying to create, not only you but the European Union as a whole with regard to the tax evasion of big capital, multinationals and monopolistic groups? We say very clearly that it is hypocrisy. Why? For a number of reasons. I'll briefly report them. The first reason is that overall - and if we look at the evolution of tax rates and tax systems, not only in Greece but also at European level - a very favourable environment is being created for multinational companies, for monopolistic groups. Even in countries with high tax rates, typically high tax rates for large capital, such as the Scandinavian countries, their multinationals or other multinationals operating on their territory enjoy a special tax regime with very low tax rates. From this point of view, therefore, and in the context of overall tax competition - which you have also mentioned - which, for example, make countries north on our borders or Cyprus, for example, this development of things has gradually led to and overall has flowed into a framework that shapes evolution as follows: we will have ever greater reductions in tax rates for monopolistic groups and multinationals. We will have more and more new tax exemptions, which will be provided by the governments concerned in the name of attracting foreign investment or maintaining special tax regimes, as in Greece there is the scandalous, indeed, for decades of special tax regime enjoyed by shipowners. That is why the special tax regime enjoyed by the shipowners, the puppies, the puppies of the system, the Chrysayites, the neo-nazis, are not saying a word. They are doing the special tax arrangements for shipowners, because they are not going to mess with their fed bosses. So, basically, there is a legitimate one by the governments and laws that shape tax evasion, avoidance and tax exemption for large capital. The second factor that is hypocrisy is the free movement of capital, not only within the European Union established by the Maastricht Treaty. So this framework of freedom of movement for capital creates a framework that enables the large capital to move wherever it wants in time, without controls. This legislative framework, Minister, did not all those who made their money abroad benefit from the previous time, even the statements made by the Greek banks and took them abroad? What other legal framework did they create? Besides, all these transactions were made through the Bank of Greece, which led to huge reductions in deposits in the domestic banking system. Thirdly, I mentioned it just before, at the beginning of my speech, is the existence of tax havens. And don't go looking for tax havens in some offshore areas. It is within the borders of the European Union. It's not just Luxembourg. They are regions in Belgium, regions in the Netherlands, regions in Great Britain, where they have just formed a special tax regime for these regions and businesses that set up tax seats in these areas to have huge tax exemptions. And that's why it's not called anything. As is also the case within the United States of America, similar regimes exist in a number of states. Fourth factor, Minister, is the actual demonstrable transactions between the parent and the subsidiaries or other affiliated companies. Delicious dealings! What is the aim of all these transactions, Minister? Just to be able to have a very large tax evasion, a very large reduction in the tax base for multinationals on which tax rates are imposed. The day before yesterday there was a post in the “KATHMERINI” where he said how the French banks distributed their profits to various tax havens so that they could reduce their tax burden. This is a revealing post, in the ongoing publications that exist, the existence of known foreign companies, of offshore. So, in such a context as to favour the action of multinationals, big capital and monopolistic groups, you have the illusion that you will be able to step on tax evasion and smuggling when the various secrets are still in place? From this point of view, therefore, we say that in this context that you, as SYRIZA's government, do not question it, so you accept it, are hypocrisy the various declarations on the fight against tax evasion. But it's not just hypocrisy. The most dangerous of all is that all these announcements - and in the past they have also been made by other Governments and by the New Democracy and the PASOK - have led with mathematical accuracy to the escalation of the tax raid towards the people's layers, against the employees and pensioners, against the free professionals and the self-employed, against poor medium-sized farms. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. But even if you have some poor results in dealing with the tax evasion of big capital and multinationals, that is not going to lead, Minister, to reducing the tax burden on the Greek people. After all, this will lead to the closure of the third assessment, which the government has carried out with the quartet, the so-called institutions, the troika, as it used to call it. So this agreement on evaluation, not only will it bring relief to the people, despite the ambitious efforts made by the media to cultivate a climate of optimism that will be done and the evaluation will be completed - so what good! - on the contrary, the completion of the evaluation and the agreement with the quartet will open the way for further escalation of the anti-population attack to further deterioration of the position of the people's family. In this respect, therefore, we do not have any illusions, Mr Minister, as to what needs and what needs to be done. Not only must the people be vigilant and not rest, but must organise the struggle by participating in the activities, such as the Evening Storm of the Pan-Attagonist Front, but also in the escalation of the struggles and the organization of the struggle, so that they can in the first instance prevent the anti-Fraud attack from escalating, alleviating its position and forming the field for more comprehensive ruptures and overthrows that are necessary. For these very reasons, Minister, we cannot vote and we will not vote for this bill, because we regard it as an abstraction of hypocritical statements, simply. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-eight students and students and two their teachers, from the 33rd Municipal School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Antoniou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President, I will be very brief. On the need to vote on the provisions of the bill we are debating today, I think there is the consensus of the large majority of the House. It regulates issues that need to be regulated and can help to exchange information on combating tax evasion and tax fraud within the countries of the European Union. I also agree with those who have spoken in relation to the extension of these regulations, as well as to the issues of tax havens, which are not affected by this directive and must urgently come and form an issue that will be dealt with by the Greek Parliament and also by the European institutions, so that the black money that is moving within and outside the European Union can be more easily captured. However, I would like to make a few more general references to a number of issues that have been raised by some of the rapporteurs and speakers concerning the refugee and the government's policy on this issue and other issues to which I am going to refer. First of all, the refugee is not offered for easy demagoguery and consumption or opposition krone, because it is a very serious issue and we have to deal with it in this way. I think that the government is dealing with the issue with a wise and sound policy and on the basis of the humanitarian values that our country has to respect, but not just an obligation. He is also our people of solidarity and he shows his solidarity with these people every day, whom war and flames of war have thrown them out of their homes and brought them to our court. Already, at the moment, the situation is normalising. The necessary hosting centres have been established. The situation is certainly difficult in Idomenis and Piraeus. We are trying to convince these people that the situation has changed, that the borders have closed and that they should go to hospitality structures where the conditions are decent and civilised. A number of things have been heard here, tax raids and so on. I think some people are in a hurry. It is very close to the time when we will have the results in relation to the prerequisites for ending the evaluation. The messages we have as a government are positive. The institutions are already converging around these positions of the Greek Government. Financial data for 2015 closed with a primary surplus of GDP of 2% compared to the IMF calculations, which predicted 6% and 7% reduced the primary surplus. From there there there is a positive balance of about EUR 1 billion. So all the policy of the government - that is the battle we are fighting - is the burdens of any adjustment until 2018 to be shared fairly and balancedly between very high incomes and to reduce middle and lower incomes. This will be done and it is a commitment of our own government. Finally, I would like to make a reference to some surrealistics that have been heard here. They're reading Lenin from what I see in some of the officers of the L.A.P.D.'s. That's good. It's progress. But when we talk about a historical personality of the size of Lenin, using a cheetah in a speech in the House and especially in the wings of the House and Members who have consistently served a harsh class policy over all these years that have ruled to the benefit of big capital and to the detriment of working classes and poor populaces, I think this sounds rather like a joke in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to table this amendment because Mr Chironis has informed me that he cannot come because he has an extraordinary problem. I shall speak about the amendment in question. I think that the amendment with order number 300 and number 77 has been distributed for the Ministry of the Environment and Energy Special Secretariat. It is simply the content of the amendment. This Special Secretariat for Water must be covered with staff, which has a very important role to play. If you read the report, you will see that the staff left in this Special Secretariat are too little to meet the very basic needs. Let me tell you that this special secretariat needs staff. Today they are serving in the twenty-nine of the forty-two organic posts and of these twenty-nine, twenty-one are covered by regular staff and eight by regular officials from other bodies, whose time of secondment expires in April 2016. As far as the subject of the amendment is concerned, therefore, the amendment has precisely this logic, namely to strengthen the Ministry of the Environment and Energy Special Secretariat, because, unfortunately, the policies pursued in previous years have reduced the public sector by a very large number. At some point, we have to talk here about these reductions in staff, because in very basic services such as tax services, customs services, but also other services, nursing establishments, health facilities and elsewhere, while there is all this misinformation and propaganda for a large public sector, when we are going to compare officials who serve in these services with the corresponding officials of other European services, we see that here we have a very small number of officials who cannot respond to the basic needs. So we have to find a way, and that is what this amendment does, that is to say, enables these needs to be covered by secondment. We are not talking about anything else, not to start the misinformation or the various publications or reports that we 'our own children' and various other nice articles are heard. We are talking about a possibility of secondments and transfers to the Special Secretariat. There's no camera. It's a normal process to settle this whole thing. Mr Chironis, as I have said, cannot come because there has been an extraordinary problem and, unfortunately, he cannot be here. On this occasion, Mr President, I should like to say, in order not to waste any more time, that we accept Amendments Nos 297/75 by Mr Stathakis and Mr Paradise for a transfer to the 1-10-2016 implementation of specific provisions of the Banking Code, Amendment No 298/76 by Mr Tsakalotos and my own on the incentives to replace old-tech cars, the extension of a withdrawal, and the 300/77 to which I have just referred. Since I have taken the floor, and with absolute respect, also in the climate of consensus, which exists today in the Chamber, but also in your time, I only want to say two things. A review of what the government is doing in terms of taxation and smuggling was heard by a spokesman from the New Democracy. I said it again and I will repeat it: do not rush. In addition to what we have submitted to the House through the parliamentary process of answering to topical questions, data, etc., which we are answering to all - there is nothing we have not answered, there is nothing in the Ministry of Finance that I know and not to have been tabled to Parliament, and we will continue to do so, because for us transparency is a component of our policy - apart from that, I said it again: I, some things I want to say last time in the House, do not want to repeat them, although some have the same tape that goes on. There will be full information from the Committee on Economic Affairs with full account of what has been done in the Ministry of Finance and full information on the planning of the Ministry of Finance. There is no concern about this. But there remains one question, which I have tabled many times, and I am afraid I will keep tabling it, because there is no answer. It really has to be answered sometime. That list of Lagard, which was lost in 2010, in 2011, and reached the hands of the IAS around November 2012, where was it lost at this time? Will anyone finally assume political responsibility for delaying checks and for the risks of limitations? Because, good criticism, good grumbling, we listen to it all the time. At some point, we must also have a political commitment to this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u192	Here you go, Mr. Kutsuko, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u193	I would like to speak for a second, on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u194	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u195	Thank you. Political issues and the bill have been adequately covered. I will not extend to the economy of time. After all, the Minister will have a long time to apologise for what he does for tax evasion if the people claim him and remain in this position. Mr Minister, you have presented an amendment to us because Mr Chironis cannot come. So accepting this weakness and not raising it as a major issue, as it could be pointed out. No one refuses to strengthen a service with staff, which needs it. We agree with this argument. We had done so at the same service, that is to say the General Secretariat for Waters. Here, you do two additional things: one is that you give them the opportunity to transfer, contrary to what is happening in the rest of the public sector, and the other - I am sorry that Mr Vernardakis, who is the custodian of a rating and an official code that we have recently voted on - you allow them exceptionally to be elected to positions of responsibility, directors or directors-general. In other words, there are some people in a service waiting for their time to take responsibility and the seconded person, who is the Minister's choice, because the procedure is exceptional, does not obey either the service councils or anywhere else - to be head and take the place. Isn't that a picture? That is why I said that we cannot vote for it. The others will be voted on and I will see you in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, I would not have taken the floor. Following the clarification of the Minister, Mr. Friday's, on the amendment we had on the issue of insolvency administrators, but also because I would like to answer Mr. Alexiadis, because he left a reproach on what we were doing for the Lagard list, I would like to remind him, in order to restore the truth, that the list of Lagard was just sent to the office of the then Prime Minister, Mr. Samaras, was sent on the same day to the Financial Prosecutor on 2 October 2012. The second cd of the list, as soon as he was received, was sent on the same day to the Financial Prosecutor. We, New Democracy, took over the country's governance in July 2012. The same applies to foreign and Luxembourg intervention lists. The first one was sent to the financial prosecutors on 5 September and the second one at the beginning of September 2012. The sixty-five cd list, Minister, was created at the request of the ILO at the beginning of the mandate of the Government of Samaras to the Union of Greek Banks. That's for restoring the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u200	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u201	In relation to the comment on the amendment to which I referred earlier, I do not want to insist anymore on what has been heard about the comparison of the past, of the present and so on. After all, we will have the opportunity for the Committee on Economic Affairs to discuss them in detail. However, with regard to what has been heard about the staff seconded by the rest of the public sector to the Special Secretariat for Waters, Mr Kutsuko, we will not do what has been done in previous years of governance. We're both from the Treasury and we've served the trade union. In other words, they are considered to be general directors and heads of large-scale services with papers given to them by politicians, without having gone through the process of the FEK and the procedures provided for by the law, with well-known remarks, which we all know were given to favour some who, as chameleons, can be with all governments and all the situations in the central and other services of the Ministry of Finance. ‘ Not all of them, because the Treasury has skilled executives. But since we are both from the same space and we know people and situations, I tell you that we have not done and will not do what has happened in the past. If you have not even reported an undeclared movement of an official from part of a department in the Ministry of Finance - Mr Theocharis is here and can, with his experience, tell you whether we have even one on SYRIZA, because I have hundreds to report to you for the past few years - to report it to us and to deal with it. With regard to what you said, however, I am reading what the provision says, because we will transfer staff by seconding from the rest of the public sector to the Special Secretariat: "The seconded staff shall have the right to participate in the proposed selection procedures for head of Directorate-General, address or department or other organisational unit of another service or the institution of origin, and in the event of selection, an act of interruption of the secondment shall be issued."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u202	Is this the case in the rest of the public sector? That's what I said. Leave the stories now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u203	Wait a minute. Mr. Kutsuko, in the stories you took me when you dived in the past by choice. We'll either make a general valuation or not. For me, take responsibility for what SYRIZA has done, a one-year government with the conditions we have. Who will take responsibility for all the previous years? As far as this is concerned, therefore, given the problem of the service and given that, as I said before, from the twenty-nine positions that are now, only twenty-one are regular staff and already the eight are seconded and we have to go up to forty-two, which are the organic positions, in a service that is forty-two people, it is not possible to take part in the process only twenty-one. So so that we do not have any problems, that is why there is this provision and they will follow the legal selection procedures envisaged.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset and on the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions: (a) Directives 2014/107/EU and (EU) 2015/2060, (b) Directives 2014/86/EU and 2015/121/EU, (c) Directive 2013/61/EU and other provisions’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u205	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u206	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u207	Therefore, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek Legislation to the provisions: (a) Directives 2014/107/EU and (EU) 2015/2060, (b) Directives 2014/86/EU and 2015/121/EU, (c) Directive 2013/61/EU and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u209	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u210	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u211	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u212	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u213	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u214	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u215	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u216	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u218	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u219	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u221	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u222	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u224	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u225	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u227	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u228	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u230	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u231	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u233	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u234	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u237	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u239	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u240	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u241	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 297 and a special number 75 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u243	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u244	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u245	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 297 and a specialist of 75 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 298 and a special number 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u248	The amendment, by a general number 298 and a special 76, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 300 and a special number 77 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u249	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u250	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u251	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u253	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u254	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u255	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 300 and a special 77 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u257	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u258	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek Legislation to the provisions: (a) Directives 2014/107/EU and (EU) 2015/2060, (b) Directives 2014/86/EU and 2015/121/EU, (c) Directive 2013/61/EU and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and in the articles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u259	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u260	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u261	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u262	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Adaptation of Greek Legislation to the provisions: (a) Directives 2014/107/EU and (EU) 2015/2060, (b) Directives 2014/86/EU and 2015/121/EU, (c) Directive 2013/61/EU and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u264	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-03-31-S1-commons.u265	With the consent of the House at 15.46' the sitting is closed for tomorrow morning on Friday 1 April 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda to be distributed.
