ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Accreditation of the quorum shall begin. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 25-7-2016, PRACTICAL PRACTICE's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau at its meetings of Monday, 25 July 2016, with regard to the resolution to the whole draft law: “Framework on safety in offshore oil exploration and exploitation, incorporation of Directive 2013/30/EU, amendment of the report. 148/2009 and other provisions’]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Discussion and decision, in accordance with Articles 68(2) of the Constitution and 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, on the proposal made by the Chief of Staff Representation and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Members of his Party, to set up a committee of inquiry into the reasons for the imposition of bank holidays and capital restrictions, signature of the third memorandum and the need to recapitalise credit institutions. The debate on the proposal for a committee of inquiry shall be held in accordance with Rule 144 and with the appropriate application of Rule 137(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In particular, with regard to the organisation of the debate, I would suggest that the procedure should begin with a first circle of eight speakers, one of each parliamentary group. First, as usual, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group MEP, who has tabled the proposal to set up the Committee of Inquiry, in accordance with Rule 144(4) of the Rules of Procedure. Each MEP will be given the floor for ten minutes without a secondary right. At this point, I am opening up a small parentheses. In consultation with the President of Parliament, Mr Stourras and the rapporteur of SYRIZA will have increased time - and this is customary - 15 minutes each. Also, the parties have already submitted statements of speakers and a single list of speakers has been drawn up by the service, in proportion to the parliamentary power of the parties, as has been applied by parliamentary practice in the past. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will be laid down in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, namely, the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officerial Response will be given the floor for twenty minutes and the other Heads of the Party for fifteen minutes. The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, if he wishes, will be given the floor for ten minutes. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotos, will be given the floor for 15 minutes of the hour and the Deputy Minister, George Huliarakis, will be speaking for 10 minutes of the hour. Parliamentary representatives are self-evident that they can intervene after the first eight and one per parliamentary group will change. Of course, they should speak, so that they do not limit their time, before the parties' leaders speak. In consultation with the President of Parliament, we have said until 18.00 - and we have time to do so, since the time has been observed, because the other speakers will be six minutes - that all this cycle be over with the ministers, colleagues and parliamentary representatives. At 18.00 a.m. they will start with a reverse time, that is, from Mr Leventis, and we will come to Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras, the speeches of the parties' Heads of State, so that now, shortly before, shortly after that, you know that they do not enter the moroccano - to finish the debate and go to the roll-call vote. Fatally, this is the suggestion and procedure, based on and what has been done in the past. So if there is no objection...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u3	Here you go, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because it is not the first time that we have been discussing similar parties initiatives, it is the following: the first speakers, all the parties, have the same time and not special treatment for the first two speakers and the rest of the different treatment. After all, the rapporteurs and special speakers have the same time in the legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u5	Okay, well, this is not a question of legislative work, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u6	I am also talking about proposals for the setting-up of committees of inquiry. The first cycle of all speakers has the same time. There can be no double standards for the first two speakers from New Democracy and SYRIZA 15 minutes for the rest of the ten minutes. We must all have the same time, fifteen minutes, so that they can fully develop their views.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, it's done in the process of questioning and you know it's not what you call it. However, it is self-evident - I wanted to make it clear from the outset - that there will be some tolerance for other colleagues, the first eight, because that is where you object from what I understand, in the rest you agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u8	Same treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u9	There'll be a little tolerance. Just beg to finish, if possible, at 6 p.m. before the chairmen of the parliamentary groups begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u11	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, in general terms, the proposal you are proposing is acceptable. Mr Karathanasopoulos' point of view, and I think that you, as the Bureau, should take it into account and take it into account. But I ask you to speak for another purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 68 of the Constitution setting out the questions of committees of inquiry, as specified in Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure, does not allow parliamentary groups such as our own to exercise this form of parliamentary control. However, since December 2015, we have tabled a proposal from all the Members of the Democratic Integration calling for the examination of the things and the people from the country's accession to the euro and to date, with a special reference to the period of capital controls obviously. We also expressed this view in the previous part of the House when it was on the initiative of SYRIZA that time a proposal for a committee of inquiry which was voted on by our vote and by the vote of the New Democracy and the River, if I remember well. So the proposal was to go to an examination of things to find the one and only fault, the PASOK. We've been talking since 2002...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u13	It's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u14	Don't worry, Mr. Mada. I have to say my arguments. If I'm wrong somewhere to fix me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u15	Say it for this, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Mada, wait a minute. Don't waste time. A minute or two, it takes Mr. Loverdos to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u17	We went to that committee of inquiry. We have worked courageously, with determination, I must say, but, Mr President, this procedure was interrupted because of the elections. We asked for the new period of Parliament to continue its work and the majority did not accept it. The Qualified Opposition is now coming and it is tabling its proposal. As we voted on SYRIZA's proposal, we will also vote on the proposal from the Officerial Response. I wonder, though, is there no one in this Chamber who wants to see the Greek economy from 2002 onwards? If there is, and if experience has made us leave the polluter's theory of one and only fault and enter the period before 2009, Mr President, and enter the period since the country entered the euro, we have tabled this proposal. I would ask the services of this House, despite the fact that the proposal is known, to distribute it to the parliamentary representatives of all the groups and to see, by the end of the process, the formation of a voting issue, Mr President, which is the real quest for the truth, the real examination of persons and things for the entire phase of the existence of our country within the euro. I am not asking for anything more than the sincerity with which the political forces must stand and we are waiting - by putting this text - for every Member of the House or of the opposition who speaks, for every parliamentary representative and for every Chief to take a stand on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u18	Soon, just a minute. Firstly, the procedure that was interrupted because of the elections cannot continue after that. The Rules of Procedure are clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u19	By decision of the House, he can.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u20	Oh, no. Again, from the outset, not the same person who was interrupted. You know that. You've put it badly. Second, really...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u21	Mr. President, excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Loverdo, I'm not having a dialogue with you. Excuse me. I have heard you and the Bureau is answering and it is as I say. Secondly, on 22-12-2015 you tabled this proposal, which you requested to be redistributed. That's not bad. After you submitted it, I said that it should be copied, distributed and that the parliamentary representatives should be given a copy. Thirdly - you know that, you are an old colleague, and if not another professor, who is a specialist in these matters - the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry in the New Democracy is currently being discussed exclusively. It is not possible to conclude with another proposal, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the House. On whether there are Members in this Chamber who agree with your proposal, if I am not allowed, in any event, at a governmental time, Samara, I have, for example, been placed in public. We're closing it, then. Mr. Stavura, call the Step. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today - it is true with great delay - the New Democracy's proposal of March to set up a committee of inquiry into governmental manipulations in the economy in the first half of 2015. I would like to make it clear that the New Democracy has no intention of hunting witches, nor of incriminating unfounded political opponents. But it wants to be consistent with its institutional role, to put uninterruptedly on the basis of reasonable manipulations, which cost the country and the citizens a huge amount of money. These are unresolved governmental manipulations, which led to the closure of banks, capital restrictions, a new recapitalisation of banks, additional fiscal measures and the third memorandum and raise a number of questions that require answers. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in the first half of 2015, committed a series of errors of unprecedented extent and gravity. Among other things, it was based on unrealistic assumptions without any documentation, such as that it would be accepted by lenders or that it would obtain financial support from other sources or other countries. He ignored the negotiating rules, and thus mistakenly considers that as long as time goes on, the partners will retreat. It was carried away by dogmatisms, ideologies, maximalist rhetoric. He kept talking through the media, cultivating an environment of creative ambiguity. He used the country as a case study for the empirical verification of the theory of games. He consumed significant negotiating chapters and time on procedural and material issues, focusing on communication rather than on substance. It moved to the logic of political negotiation to avoid the truth of the numbers, which, over the months, became more and more grim. The incoherence of the referendum, an initiative that is destructive, both in terms of content and of the timing of its use, was culminated. But in addition to these errors in the country of faults, it seems to be developing at the same time by members of the government a scene of conflict with the partners and exiting the country from the euro. Some were preparing plans B and wished that the obligations on lenders should not be unilaterally met. Others developed invasion plans in the Mint and others were talking about a parallel payment system and the creation of an informal double currency. Ladies and gentlemen, the result of these acts and omissions by the government in the first half of 2015, which took place in the obvious, but also in the gray, if not the dark, was painful for the country. Recently, the estimates of the Governor of the Bank of Greece and the head of the European Stability Mechanism raise the cost of supposedly heroic negotiation in the first half of 2015 from 86 billion to 100 billion euros. I shall submit to the Minutes the document number one, these estimates. Why this cost? First of all, precious potential wealth has been lost at this time. I will submit for the Minutes the document number 'Appendix 2', the relevant reports by the European Commission, because they have been printed on public cash. I shall submit for the minutes the document number 'Confidential 3', the Public Debt Card, because the government's outstanding debts were increased by 83% during this period. I will submit for the Minutes the document number ‘Confidential 4’, the relevant General Government document, because new budgetary measures have been added now, according to the supplementary memorandum that has not yet come to Parliament, EUR 9 billion by 2018. I shall submit for the minutes the document number "Confidential 5", the extract of the additional memorandum, because the sustainability of the public debt has been burdened. I shall submit to the Minutes the document numbered 'According 6', the latest report by the International Monetary Fund, which confirms a 30 percentage point burden on GDP because capital restrictions were imposed and because there was a need for a new recapitalisation of the banks, exclusively the responsibility of the current government. I will submit for the minutes the document number ‘Annex 7’, all the reports of the Bank of Greece, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, confirming that the costs of the new recapitalisation are solely due to the negotiation of the first half of 2015. I shall submit to the Minutes the document number ‘Appendix 8’. Recapitalisation that brought great costs to taxpayers and huge losses to the shareholders of credit institutions, small and large, private and public by changing the ownership structure of banks. Indicatively, the value of the participation of the Financial Stability Fund has plummeted below EUR 2 billion from EUR 12 billion, which was at the end of 2014, losses far higher than the negative performance recorded over the last four years. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the current costs, which everyone has to admit, in and out of Greece, the costs to be investigated, there is also a number of questions about the government's actions and omissions calling for answers. Indicatively, firstly, why did the government not complete the assessment in February 2015, especially when it was written in the Eurogroup minutes, as the then Minister of Finance distributed them, did the government express a particularly positive opinion on the primary surpluses achieved by the previous government and committed itself to the election promises that it will also apply 70% of the memorandum? I shall submit for the minutes the document number ‘According 9’, the relevant suggestion by Mr Varoufakis to the Eurogroup. Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis Why did the government not complete the assessment in time, while it was aware of the adverse consequences for the country? Incompetence, inappropriateness, deceit or design? Mr Galbraith, Mr Varoufakis' close associate, writes in his book that on 8 February - hold this - the then Minister of Finance wondered whether the citizens would still be with him when the banks close down. I shall submit to the Minutes the document number ‘Appendix 10’. In fact, at the beginning of the new government, the then Minister of Finance knew that the banks would close? Did the banks plan to close? What did the Prime Minister do by seeing his Minister lead the country to the edge of the abyss? Obviously, the answer in the context of an interview is not enough, especially when the Prime Minister has designated the former Minister of Finance as ‘asset’ of his Government. Third question. The Governor of the Bank of Greece stated, in an interview on January 12, 2016, that he had information on invasion plans in the Mint and the creation of an informal double currency. I shall submit a document on the Minutes. According to evidence, such plans were developed by government members during ministerial councils. What were those plans? Fourth question. The Ministry of Finance seems - and is confirmed by evidence and facts - to operate a negotiating group with two completely opposite strategies. What was the Prime Minister's attitude to this quarrel? Fifth question. Mr Galbraith in the same book refers to the payments made in May to the International Monetary Fund, when the payment stops. Attributes he writes: "The Governor of the Bank of Greece had contact with the Greek Executive Director of the IMF and arranged that the payment of 700 million dollars be made on special drawing rights found in the Greek account to the IMF". Hold on to what he then says: "The Minister of Finance was not aware and while we were prepared for a posteriori, we were occupied out of touch." So did the then Minister of Finance and his colleagues seek the bankruptcy of the country? I shall submit for the minutes the document number ‘Appendix 16’. Sixth question. The same writer in the same book argues that Mr Varoufakis at the end of March asked him to begin the preparation of a B plan which would be a brief description of what we would do if the negotiations were to take place and Greece was forced out of the euro. What was the complete B project delivered by Mr Galbraith to the then Minister of Finance? Seventh series of questions. If, in fact, it was a B plan, why did Mr Galbraith - I recall that he was a close associate of the then Minister of Finance - in July 2015 was supporting - and there is in the book, I put it in the Minutes - that the available tools seem sufficient to make the exit very fast and perfectly smooth, with the payment system ready to work almost immediately? And why did he argue in another article that the message will be clear to the citizens of other peoples? A message that “return to cash as soon as possible and get out of the euro as quickly as you can”. One more thing. According to the conclusion of the conclusion of Plan B and restrain this: "There is no need for Greece not to succeed in a national currency free of the doctrines of the Eurozone and having adapted its policy to national needs and conditions, to recover financially and finally to become more prosperous than today". This is the conclusion of the finding, as shown in the book. I shall submit for the minutes the document number ‘Appendix 18’. In other words, for some in the government and their partners, Plan B was Plan A? Eighth series of questions. Referendum, big chapter. Why did the government proceed to the referendum, knowing the negative effects of both its conduct and its possible outcome? He knew that banks would close down, that capital restrictions would be imposed, that there would be a catastrophic impact on the banking system, the public, the taxpayers and the real economy. How is this confirmed that he knew? Mr. Tsipras, quoted on November 30, 2011 in the referendum that Mr. Papandreou planned at the time, said: "If the Prime Minister attempts to raise these issues, bankruptcy will occur, as will the collapse of the banking and financial system, long before we reach the poll." Why, then, did the Prime Minister proceed to a referendum, and he knew the negative consequences for his conduct? And not just that. The Prime Minister knew, as I said before, since May, Plan B, which contained, in the event of its implementation, a declaration of the country in an emergency, nationalisation of banks, recapitalisation with a new drachma, issuing promises for payment of wages and pensions, of public officials. So I repeat, since the Prime Minister has known these since May, why did he decide a referendum in July? He knew the adverse effects of the referendum. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll tell you one more thing. The decision taken by the Prime Minister and approved by the Ministerial Council at the end of June, placed a referendum five days after the expiration of the country's loan support programme. In other words, the Prime Minister knew that his decision was taking the country off schedule. He therefore knew that since that time the European Central Bank had been forced to suspend the granting of emergency financing. This would result in bank closure and capital restrictions being imposed. That's the way it happened. In fact - I will submit to the minutes the document numbered 'Accorded 19' - in an interview with SKAI on 19 January 2016, Mr Varoufakis asked whether at the time the referendum was decided they knew that the banks would close, he replied with the word 'obviously'. So, I repeat once again why did the Prime Minister proceed to a referendum, and he knew the negative consequences of it? Finally, we avoided the worst, because the Prime Minister changed attitude to what showed him the result of the referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the cost of the first half of 2015 is huge and the questions are many. We need answers in order to learn the truth, to look for responsibilities and not to repeat the same mistakes in the future. I believe that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, will contribute in this direction if you wish to be consistent with last year's vote on the proposal for a Committee of Inquiry into the previous Memorandums and the work of which was totally stopped before the elections by voting on the third Memorandum last summer and, of course, without end. For example, in order to refer a little back to the past - I will submit in the minutes the document numbered 'According 20' - in April 2015, when the Prime Minister developed his proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, he said: 'The result of previous recapitalisations was the bank shares of the Financial Stability Fund to be sold against a lens table, with immediate damage to the Greek State and at the same time a burden on the Greek debt'. Does that remind you of anything? And he goes on to say: “It has not been many years. We remember them. Light we want to throw all of this into it." Finally, he concludes by saying: "This practice, ladies and gentlemen, you know, in the international financial system has a name. It is called 'dilution' and its legitimacy is more than doubtful in this case. Then you voted for that reason. Now will consistency prevail, or will you make one more cubicity, so will you confirm that all the issues are dealt with solely on the basis of the interest of your party? We are waiting, without any illusions. These have been nourished for years, continuously and serially, Mr. Tsipras. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u24	I should like to inform you that, in consultation with the President of Parliament, if there is no complaint about non-equivalence, if the other seven of the first eight so wish, they can speak for fifteen minutes and customarily, if he wishes - and from what I understand it, he wishes - the debate this evening as customary, again in consultation with the President of the Parliament, will be closed by the Chief of Staff and by the President of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis. Here, Mr Balaura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. If I put a title in my speech today, I would say the well-known 'Look who's talking'. Those who talk are the ones who brought the Greek people to despair, those who reduced the country's wealth by 25%, who filled the society with millions of unemployed, who sent our youngsters to the new German and Belgian pamphlets, the stadiums that dissolved the country's productive base, which gave loans to the peoples, the media, their parties, who went bankrupt and built rich fireplaces. Now the entire rot is coming out of the committee on loans to the media and the parties, which exists and operates within the House. The proposal of the New Democracy was submitted two days before SYRIZA's respective proposal for the Committee of Inquiry into the loans to parties and the media. So the New Democracy tried to divert, when the whole world, all the media dangled that there would be this proposal from the SYRIZA side. Objection. When's the distraction coming up? It happens when they do not have positions when they choose regular movements from the essence of politics when they choose disorientation. After all, the proposal of the New Democracy has been judged by the Greek people. For the first time in the political history of the country - I stress for the first time - we went to elections in September, knowing the Greek people exactly what has been agreed and where we are going, we have not hidden anything at all, unlike the entire political history, not only of the country, but also internationally. Therefore, your fairy tale, colleagues of the New Democracy, no longer has a dragon! You're talking about plan B. I won't say much in answering Mr. Stakoura. I will say what your former Chief of State, Mr. Meimarakis, said - and rightly said it - many of us here, from the Prime Minister, to any member of the SYRIZA - that yes and plan B and plan X would be built in order to deal with the torture of drowning that were trying to force us. Let me just say a rhetoric question. We won the referendum. I'll come back to this later. So, as you say, plan B to leave the euro. So why, since we are mighty, did we get a 63% proud of the Greek people? We have also had the technical data of Plan X, or whatever you say, why did we not leave the euro? You are relying on narratives, which are interesting to spend on holidays, but they cannot support political positions on them. However, I must say and I must admit that there was indeed a plan B for the country to leave the euro. Yes, it is! It was Shoeble's. But you never said a word when it came out publicly and said it. You didn't say a word, you didn't report it. But you don't dare just denounce it, but you don't even dare comment on it. Mr. Stavros said that Mr. Stournaras informed the IMF that he would pay from the special drawing rights deposited with the Bank of Greece on behalf of the IMF. It's not true. The Deputy Prime Minister has received a recommendation - and one of those who recommended it was me - for special drawing rights, long before they were submitted to the IMF. It was therefore the government's initiative, not any other institutions or any other bodies. Fellow colleagues of the New Democracy, your strategy, the European Union's dominant conservative circles strategy, for 'left parentheses' has collapsed evenly. You had invested in this, that in two, three, four months - where is it going? - they'll fall and leave us the ground again, they'll let us party the endless to continue. That's why you didn't finish your fifth evaluation, which you should have done seven months ago. From autumn 2014, you did not go ahead with it. Why is that? It is said by your former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, "we have not closed the evaluation to load it on to the next government." And that's how it happened. The Samara - Venizelou government, seeing that SYRIZA is going through, did not even ask and took the instalments to strangle the new government from the lack of liquidity that we were seeing at the time. Capital control. War has begun. Such a war, Mr Stavoura, I really would like you to answer me - even in private - when such a war took place in Europe? I think you would know that similar wars and other means at the same time only occurred in Latin America. Such a scenario has never occurred in Europe by strangling, by not providing liquidity from the European Central Bank. I ask again, Mr Staikoura: Did it allow the Statute of the European Central Bank not to grant liquidity to Greece, the Bank of Greece and in general? Where does it say it? On the contrary, it says that the European Central Bank has the responsibility of operating the financial system as a whole and for each country separately. So here's how the blackmails were playing. In fact, in order not to create a domino for the banks in Europe, what did the European Central Bank do? He gave little and expensive money in order not to collapse the Greek banks and to lure the others through ELA. The explanation given to us by the European Central Bank was that we were not in the programme and that is why it stops liquidity. Mr. Stavura, you were in things at the time. For two months the Samara - Venizelou government was not in a programme and not even a single euro was cut off from liquidity. For two months! So why this differentiation? Let a good observer interpret this differentiation between us and you. You exercised, along with the black propaganda and exercised white terrorism. The then Prime Minister Samaras - Prime Minister, please - said: "From the day of the government's takeover, the ATMs will be closed". Yes or no? Did the Prime Minister of the country say so on the eve of the January elections? The Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr. Georgiadis, gave the signal that he will make his money out when the SYRIZA government comes. Mrs Bakoyannis - let us not forget - with her self-esteeming prophecy, she said that banks would close on the three-day day of the Holy Spirit. And what they didn't say! International media, domestic "pads" for debt cuts, bank bankruptcy, will come and dive us by our ears. On 19 March, Mr Dieselblum, President of the Eurogroup, spoke of the Cyprus scenarios and restrictions on capital movements. Why, why should I? So the next day, what was the result? We had 300 million euros out of Greek banks abroad, 300 million euros left the next day from the statements made by the notorious Daiselblum! Let's take a look at the evidence. In December 2014, the outflow was EUR 4.2 billion. When terrorism began, in January 2015, before we took over, it was EUR 12.8 billion. In February 2015, it was EUR 2 billion and continued to fluctuate between EUR 3 and 4 billion each month. And most of the outflow at that time was for the chests, as the Bank of Greece admits. We were therefore paralysed, illegally and expelled, by capital controls and even one week before the referendum. Perhaps - I put it as a reflection - we should have imposed the capital controls earlier. But it was a message of goodwill to many recipients, particularly the European Central Bank, and we did not go into this scenario. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you of the infamous Tomsen and his revealing conversation about a new case of drowning the Greek economy in order to kneel again on the last assessment made. You said, Mr. Stakoura, things. But you forgot to say something, reading the novel of our friend Galbraith. Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras asked for a short-day extension of the programme in order not to proceed with the closure of the banks? We did everything we could. I would remind you that we did not pay the IMF and the European Central Bank because we did not want to deprive the Greek people of wages and pensions. So we went against falsehood and the propaganda of the media. You remember what happened in the referendum. Even skeletons from the wardrobes, even prisoners for corruption, made the channels to support "yes". Yes or no? Remember, then. And yet, an entire people proudly voted against the overwhelming 63% against all of them, leaving your European patronages to speak out, and desperately so, and glorifying the movements of Europe and the world, I would say. I have said before that the story of the referendum should be taught in the political history of universities, about how a people move forward and stand up. You say it was a disastrous referendum. Why is that? What was the alternative to 'yes' or 'no'? The 'yes' was the Commission proposal, which had heavy measures like yours, as you had agreed on in the programme that you did not complete. We rejected this ultimatum. Of course, we didn't make it in the line we had, in the place we were. But we continued and still have the support of the movements, despite the fact that you mentioned about states, etc. There was a painful compromise. Besides, history is full of such compromises. What should make us think about is whether in the end the battle may be lost, but whether victory is war or not. And we succeeded after the referendum, 20 billion less than taxes and primary surpluses, unthinkable primary surpluses. We have managed to ensure that there is no zero deficit clause that literalised the pensions for the eleventh time. I remind you what your Minister, Mr Hardouvelis, has said, who said that their assessment - yours, that is - would not be completed, except with the acceptance of huge surpluses that did not come out. He said so, your Minister, the first economic minister's class. Recapitalisation. You're on the subject. But who are you about? The ones who turned up the banks with sarcasms. As a sarcasm of the Middle War, they worked. Zombies who were sucking blood, taking hot blood to blood the continents, paid by the Greek people with the same administrations, who did not even take into account the openings to red loans. You recapitalisationed and did not calculate the impact of the red loans. You say, Mr. Stakoura, the bank shares have collapsed. But you didn't tell the whole truth. Because in September the banks' shares held by the Financial Stability Fund were 16.5 billion. In December, they had fallen from 16.5 billion to 12 billion. Therefore, the big fall had occurred with the government yours, i.e. depreciating bank shares was yours by the government. Today the banks, Mr Staikora - and say that too - have the best capital adequacy index in the European Union. We prevented - and, of course, we did - the recapitalisation by 1 January 2016 in order to prevent the risk of the deposits being haircut. You see what is happening now in Italy. We're all talking about it. You and the former Minister and current Governor of the Bank of Greece are talking about negotiating cost 86 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask to have the same time as Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u26	You are not entitled to him because he is the principal questioner. But go ahead and close in two minutes at most.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u27	Where do 86 billion come from? Two-thirds arise from debt refinancing. I mean, we won. The remaining 25 billion were calculated for the recapitalisation and only 5 billion were used. The seven of them - not from the five out of all 86 you say - will go for the outstanding debts of the batsidian state that you made with PASOK, who did not fulfil his obligations. While the citizen and business were paying, you weren't paying them. So we took 7 billion to pay the openings you had. And finally, analysts, foreigners, serious analysts with prestige, say that with this story there was a debt write-down of 40 billion. Today, colleagues - and I am ending with this - the machine for exiting from the great size of the crisis took place. There is a positive balance now in the business world. Previous messages are that new, that is, clean of those that closed and of those created, seven hundred and thirty more companies have already been created, plus two hundred thousand new jobs. It's a 20-year-old record since 2001. Why don't we tell the Greek people that? We're not happy. We got unemployment at 27.5% and it is today at 24%. We can't say we're happy. But they're messages. 'Corruption - Tax evasion'. We open with a few people, but with great will, the doomed lists. We have already collected 1 billion euros. I say this again, we have received EUR 1 billion from the lists. Where are your silvers? It wasn't even thirty, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u28	Mr Balaura, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u29	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Papastaurans and the Slavs, the flesh of your flesh, will multiply. It will reveal the great feast, the corruption party with the media and the parties. Your story no longer has a dragon. But history has a dragon, a popular nemesis for the country's destruction, for young people, for rags, for looting. The caravan of the government is on its way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u30	Mr Ioannis Aivatidis is called to the Step on behalf of the Golden Dawn. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. On 30 March of this year's New Democracy document with the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, I would like to observe three things. The first is that there was not much in introducing this proposal into this House and in plenary and it was delayed about three months. This may involve a sense of guilt, embarrassment and inaction from the government. The second thing I would like to note and are related to the first is Mr Tsakalotou's statement in Brussels in June, that the Memorandum brings new budgetary measures and the new financial measures bring in a new memorandum. In essence, therefore, it confesss to a vicious circle of memoranda and financial burdens for the people of measures, while serving them. In other words, they are also complainants and servants of the Memorandums. It is, then, SYRIZA and ANEL's renowned policy. The third point I wish to make - and it is truly paradoxical to me - is that the New Democracy calls for a committee of inquiry and for the signature of the third memorandum, a memorandum which it actually co-signed. On 27 June 2015, Sunday, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government decided by law to establish checks on capital movements, known capital controls. What are the consequences, as they have been recorded, a year later? Before I say that we all know it very well, we experience it that the market and entrepreneurship are almost dead. On the other hand, the movement of black money is favoured. So the consequences of capital controls at about one year after their establishment: decrease in exports by 11.7%, a recession of 1.3%, deinvestment of 2.7%, a drop in consumption of 4.3%, a fall in the economic climate of 89.7 points, a loss of twenty-six thousand businesses, a loss of six jobs in competitiveness. What does that mean? That capital restrictions are inconsistent with growth. On the contrary, they lead, with mathematical accuracy, to recession. With regard to the recapitalisation, I would like to remind you that a preamble to this was the aid given by the Minister, Mr Haloskoufis, in 2009 by law to banks. The first recapitalisation took place in spring 2013. It was about EUR 50 billion, drawn from the Financial Stability Fund. While banks would have to go through public control, the course showed something very different: they ended up leaving and being led to the hands of foreign capitalists. The second recapitalisation took place in spring 2014. The Financial Stability Fund has resigned and opened for the banks and their leftovers. The third recapitalisation, which took place in the autumn of 2015, which caused further damage to the insurance funds of 1,5 to 2 billion - to recall that the PSI had led to damage of EUR 12 to 13 billion - was an extremely aggressive neoliberal privatisation, which of course has nothing to do with the left policy mark that the government claims to have. I would remind you that the shares of the systemic banks were for Eurobank EUR 0,01, for the National Bank EUR 0,02, for Piraeus EUR 0,03, for Alpha Bank EUR 0,04. I would also remind you that the SYRIZA - ANEL Co-government and the New Democracy - PASOK have addressed each other criteria for the legislation they have introduced. The New Democracy accuses SYRIZA and ANEL of not having set a lower selling price for those shares, and SYRIZA, with the help of the ANELs accusing the New Republic of allowing the sale of the shares at a price below the purchase price. These intercategories mean just one thing, that they are co-responsible. Recapitalisation means, as has been done in our country at least, that the state has received a loan from the International Monetary Fund, from the European Central Bank and from the European Union, which it has actually granted, has in some way donated bankers, while the citizen has been charged, in the sense of increasing public debt. The result was the grievance of the banks, since foreign funds are now taking the lead. And the Balkan banking miracle proved empty content, a utopia. I'm going to make a brief retreat to the sinful stories of the two-conflict parties. The ELSTAT scandal cost practically EUR 210 billion, the PSI scandal EUR 12 to EUR 13 billion. The Baroufakis era, where we saw the behaviour of the government with Mr Varoufakis and Prime Minister, of course, Alexis Tsipras, has effectively damaged 80 to 100 billion euros. A simple explanation that could be given is that Mr. Varoufakis envyed Herostratou's glory. I have heard SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Balaoura, take note of the referendum and the obvious victory of 'no', but the SYRIZA - ANEL government has turned the Greek people's proud 'no' into a humiliating 'yes', following a romantic policy, which is still under way today. I recall Mr Tsakalotou's statements at the Brussels Economic Forum in June, as I described earlier. As far as the consequences of the memoranda are concerned, it is well known to everyone. Unemployment: Greece owns the capital in the European Union with an unemployment of at least 24%, with youth unemployment of more than 50%, while the average for young people in the European Union does not exceed 18.8%. Let me remind you that unemployment in Germany reaches 7%. Unemployment, then, fleeing professionals and scientists abroad, intolerable, poor, suicidal. The two conflicts are co-responsible for all this. As Golden Dawn we will say 'at present' to the proposal of the New Democracy, and that is because we are asking, we demand a committee of inquiry on all the matter if it is done from the time when the country entered the euro. So in response to Mr Loverdou's proposal of the Democratic Alliance, we see it positively, but all scandals must be included and there must be no persons who have immunity. What I have to stress is that the two conflicts, SYRIZA - ANEL and the New Democracy - PAOK, are the sides of the same currency, a grim political currency, which on both sides has the Nightmare pictured on both sides. The Greek people will withdraw this currency and a charity in their efforts, a catalyst, I would say, will be the Golden Dawn Association. A national government of the Golden Dawn will rid the country, the nation of the downright, burdensome, ethnic-corruption memorials. The party of the parties, however, uses a part of it which is antimony, the Communist Party of Greece, as a repressive mechanism against those who react, against Golden Dawn. In any case, all parties together, the party of the parties of the falsified constitutional arch, exclaim, gentlemen, "memorandum über alles", while the Golden Dawn exclaims "the Nation above All". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u32	Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos from the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is an opportunity for the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR - Citizens' Movements - to present its proposal on 22-12-2015 on the establishment of a single committee of inquiry, which would investigate a certain and secure basis, namely from the time our country entered EMU, the evolution of all the budgetary figures, those that led Greece to need support programmes, the known memoranda, and how all this has evolved. In order not to be part of this game of superficial bi-groupism, we want to say that the sincerity of every intention, as recorded by the proposals for committees of inquiry, is judged every time you put yourself in, if this period that you propose to be investigated is your concern. I would therefore like to tell you that we propose that the period 2000-2004, which led Greece to EMU, with data that are not disputed - because Greece entered EMU with its sword - should be investigated at a time when Greece had the highest growth rates in Europe and a period of time, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - where Greece, by its vote, did not allow for measures to be imposed on Germany to breach the budgetary stability pact. Ask Mr Christodoulakis, Minister - you have him in the ombudsmen for ministering - to confirm that to you. We are also asking for this period to be investigated, so that we can then go to the period from 2004 to 2009, during which the financial derailment has led to the need for the memoranda, because the crisis has brought the memoranda. And then let's see how we managed the first memorandum, how the second memorandum came, and how we drove to the third, most prestigious and cosmopolitan memorial. This is an overall proposal, which can be based on financially reliable data. You want the Bank of Greece? Do you want the Greek Statistical Office, which is under the supervision of Eurostat? Do you want the OPE? Do you want anyone else? Let's see how things turned out. Because so far proposals for committees of inquiry have been exhausted to a micro-party confrontation for micro-party benefits. That's what's going on. Of course, the New Democracy's proposal on the grounds of leakages and reports about Mr Varoufakis' responsibilities and Plan X has a value, because it takes a period of time, a period that we say has been a great disaster in the Greek economy. SYRIZA says "we are to blame for everything." Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, it is not all your fault. It is, however, because a period during which, after the labors and sacrifices of the Greek people five years ago, a course of exit from the crisis appeared, as we had initiated it, you overthrown it. We are entitled to make this criticism when you were in the squares and the others were in the Zapez. First, we cost ourselves the cost of getting Greece into a orbit that would prevent violent bankruptcy. I would remind you that at the end of 2014 there was a prospect of growth for 2015, 2016 and the coming years. It was confirmed by international organizations. There were primary surpluses. There was the plan to leave the memorials with the preventive credit line, using the 11 billion CFSF, which our partners took from Mr Varoufakis' hands - I do not know if he understood when he gave them or gave them consciously - and out on the markets. This plan overthrow it and we went to a tour, which brought the country to the edge of the cliff. According to Mr Stournara, it cost EUR 86 billion, with Mr Reglingk EUR 100 billion, with the Lisbon Institute of 45 billion. Put the numbers as you wish. I say 20 billion and more than a loss of GDP, 40 billion lost deposits, 12.5 billion measures, taxes and spending cuts. Do the same as you want the bill. It cost us two years with new burdens on the people to get back where we were in 2014. There is a discussion about the sustainability of the debt. I want you to see the study of the International Monetary Fund on how this course undermined what seemed to be a conquest, namely that Greece had the cost of serving the public debt of 15% of GDP and all these measures will be needed to get back where we were. Obviously Mr Tsakalotos knows this study, I submit it in the Minutes because it may be useful to the majority Members. I am also tabling our proposal for a committee of inquiry. It's the one Mr. Loverdos asked to be distributed. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, there has been the need for a new recapitalisation of banks at a huge cost. It has to do with the frustration of the banks and the loss of the values of the Greek State. I would remind you that in 2014 after the recapitalisation, the value of the Greek banks was 31 billion and the value of the shares of the Greek State was 18.5 billion. We intended to discuss these in Parliament on a question we asked on 30-11-2015, but because everything is working well in this House has never been discussed. I testify to her in the Minutes, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From there on, ladies and gentlemen, the leaks led the Ministry to a political defence, I would say. The leaks, Mr Varoufakis' interview, Mr Galbraith's book on the government's responsibilities, then - which had a double plan, as it turns out, which may have dismayed your attention - led Mr Juliarakis to the Committee on Balance Sheet and Reporting of Parliament to make a confession - an apology. Because many attacked him when he said from this Step "who is Mr Galbraith?". Mr. Juliarakis said so, Minister. Mr. Juliarakis said, therefore, in Parliament's Committee on Balance sheet and Reporting, that "it was another group that we discussed about a serious negotiation and that was another thing that Mr. Varoufakis did." If you'd like to study them, I'd like to present them for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why, obviously, you cannot hide that all of these people have participated in discussions on the so-called plan X, which was done on the Prime Minister's mandate. And, of course, this fraudulent rally led to the referendum, led to the July agreement and the tough measures that our country is now experiencing. This period should therefore be considered. But, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the proposal you tabled here in March 2015 to investigate the period of the memorandum from October 2009 to January 2015, is not a good opportunity, now that we are discussing the New Democracy's proposal, to return to supplement what you do not dare say? And here's the big question. You dare not say how Greece arrived in 2009 to have these deficits and this debt that became unserved. Because in your previous proposal, which you had tabled 5-9-2012, Mr Manda and Mr Famele, representing the majority, you cling to the 2008 crisis. The words ‘Karamanlis’ and ‘New Democracy’ have not been put in your mouth. Now, in 2015, in the proposal you tabled, it is as if this period did not exist in Greek political life, as if these people were not there. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the European Parliament's report on 28-3-2014, which speaks of statistical poaching, bear in mind? You've supported her. I remember when the representatives of the European Parliament came here to judge how the troika acted - which is the result of this European Parliament resolution - you supported this working party. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Are you choosing to make your policy? Have you not read page 8, which says how the data has been historically falsified since 2007, in 2008, in 2009, to get where we arrived? Did you forget, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Barozo, Mr Karamanlis' fellow Conservative, took Greece out of surveillance in 2007 just to make an election in the middle of a fire and to win them by jeopardising? And immediately afterwards, Greece, of course, entered custody. So will you take your responsibility to talk about all these things in substance and close a period of objectivity and honesty? Because, ladies and gentlemen, this period, 2000-2004, which was the best of Greece, and which Mr Karamanlis and his government received from him, ended in 2009 to have 35 billion deficits on an annual basis, 15.4 % of GDP, and 320 billion debt, with waste, revenue reductions, expenditure increases and well-known twin deficits, i.e. budgetary deficit and balance of trade, which led us to the point where we were led. So the issues are being raised, ladies and gentlemen. They resolve with honesty and terms of historical objectivity on the basis of the evidence if you have the political will to make such a decision. Listen, I heard the majority rapporteur - he is absent - who spoke about the story with the dragons. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, would you like to support the dragons and ghosts to be selective and to create a climate of confrontation with the other small-party partner in this game of power and to maintain these psalmies that have made the people swept through the country's most creative period, the historically longer peaceful period, the post-mopulation? Is that what you want to do? To deserve your policies towards those who destroyed Greece, but to use them selectively? So our proposal is very specific. And because Mr. Tsipras spoke yesterday about the change of the page, the change of the page does not take place outside the courtyard of the Parliament, the change of the page is done here, with the agreement of the political system and parties. Because that is the only way we will go to a re-population in terms and conditions that will conquer the institutions against the contagion that has been suffered and on your own responsibility, which, many times, your rhetoric was the same as the extreme right before the history of the political system with all these slanders and slanders. So if you want to be here. We, anyway, have the advantage you don't have. We have the moral advantage because: Firstly, we have a committee of inquiry that has ourselves. Secondly, we have voted for all the committees of inquiry. We also voted for SYRIZA and we will vote for the New Democracy now. We voted first of all on the proposal for a committee of inquiry concerning our own party, which you did for the well-known reasons you have done. So with this advantage that is the moral advantage in politics, putting yourself in the crisis of history, I invite you to agree to change the page, otherwise you will stay on this fake confrontation that reproducing something that we all want to change, but, unfortunately, with our practices not just change it, but we are reproducing it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u34	It is always said - although I was not in the House at the time, but if I remember well and I think I remember well - in February 2010 the then New Democracy Parliamentary Group submitted a request for a committee of inquiry to the House for the period 2000-2010.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u35	Let's vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u36	It's time to vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u37	I say that it has already been tabled - to invoke it - from New Democracy in February 2010. Mr. Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor. Your request has been accepted from what you understand. You've got 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much. History - a big man said - is repeated either as a farce or as a tragedy. And today we have both of these traits. The New Democracy's proposal to set up a committee of inquiry is both a farce and a tragedy at the same time trying to cover up. And it is a farce since they are trying to deceive the Greek people once again and to disorientate them, but at the same time also a tragedy, because they are trying to cover up the enormous responsibilities they have as both the government and as Dedicated Opposition, by voting on all the memoranda and law on the problems that the working class and the wide folk are experiencing today. This is therefore essentially a proposal for a parody. So, as a JRC, we consider it to be the corresponding SYRIZA-ANEL proposal to set up a committee of inquiry for the first two Memorandums last year, about a year ago. This very word we used in the specific examination of SYRIZA, and it is quite a travesty because it seeks to cultivate disorientation at a time when there is a broad consensus between the parties of the Euro-money, whether they are parties of the government or of counter-population, in terms of options, policy being pursued, a broad consensus, a conclusion and agreement on strategic choices such as this extensive agreement was ratified last August by voting on the part of these parties in this third memorandum. And precisely this conclusion and strategic agreement is based on the need to serve the conditions, priorities and needs of capital, on the basis of the need to implement the planning of the urban order in our country, where you agree, to implement the strategic choices of the European Union, which are not called into question by any of these parties. And all this policy must be implemented and implemented in conditions of the sovereignty of monopolies, not only in the economy, but also in society and in the governance of the place. So, then, the debate on the setting-up of this committee and what effect, whether or not it is, makes it easier to elevate a pointless confrontation, the well-known cohorts, with which there is a clear objective, namely, to encapsulate popular discontent between Scylla and Harybdis, between the two poles, who want to form, the management of the urban system in conditions of capitalist crisis, between, on the one hand, the SYRIZA and the ANELs, the co-government parties, which implement a barbaric, anti-liberal, class policy and, on the other hand, the other hand, the pole, which, on the other side of the New Democracy, blames the Government for failures to manage or on issues that have little to do with reality. But the main problem is not the creation of disorientation. There is a more general, deeper target, at the core of the New Democracy's particular proposal to set up a committee of inquiry. Who's that? To obscure the real leaders of the problems facing the people today, to obscure the character of the capitalist system as a deep rotten and exploitive system that lasts the life of both the wide folk layers will worsen day by day. It is precisely because it is not only the conditions of the capitalist crisis that accelerated the implementation of a deep anti-grassroot policy in the name of its management, which marked a totalitarian attack on the living level of the people by increasing taxation through the reductions in wages, pensions and social benefits, but also, at the same time, transformed the ground in order to create precisely these mechanisms which, through reforms, in the next period and in the biennial period, will produce an increasingly cheaper labour force without structured labour and insurance rights and at the same time extend the immunity of the great capital. In conditions of capitalist development, fate for the people, for the working class, is not going to improve, for precisely because the logic of the armoring of competitiveness and capitalist profitability is the key factor in the absoluteness of a number of parts of our people, but also of the relative deterioration of the position for the rest of the people. From this point of view, because the logic of competitiveness and capitalist profitability is not something that has an end date, so the sacrifices made today by our people are also without an end date. Because today it makes the sacrifices so that capitalist recovery can come and tomorrow, the same parties, i.e. the political staff of the ruling class, will call on him to continue his sacrifices to maintain competitiveness, capitalist growth and capitalist profitability. That is why they are measures, which have come to mark the heart, the lives of the working class and the rest of the people's population, if they do not change with their own fighting the working class and our people the situation radically if they do not actually conflict with these responsible ones. Of course, overlap with the nature of the system also helps to cover up those responsible. What does New Democracy say today with the proposal for a law? It says that it is the governance of SYRIZA - ANEL and the negotiation that we have made in the capital controls, the recapitalisation, new measures against the people and 80-100 billion extra measures at the expense of the economy. In other words, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is responsible for the problems and not for the fact that what we are seeing here today is precisely the result of the very capitalist crisis. Really, does the state debt only increase in Greece? In the rest of the developed capitalist economies there is no increase? State debt has increased by 20% over the past five years, overall. Why did that happen? In order for the State to be able to take measures to'saving' large monopolistic groups. The various states, in other words, took private debts and turned them into state, whether they were the financial sector or the automotive sector, or a series of other large monopolistic groups. I come to the second element, which they're trying to cover up. Is this a situation in the financial system only presented in Greece? There are the corresponding examples of Ireland, Cyprus, Spain and today Italy. What's the matter with them? Is it because of mismanagement on the part of the governments concerned? The scrubbing of the red loans, with a large number of Italian banks today, but also Deutsche Bank and a number of other large business groups located in the red where it is due? It is precisely because of the overcompensation of capital, in that they provided unsubstantiated loans for everything in their efforts to prevent the capitalist crisis and that this overcompensation of capital has shaped the specific bubbles of red loans, i.e. the fictitious capital that needs to be "dried" must be abolished, so that the profit rate can be substantially increased. Of course, any recapitalisation of the banks, the two previous New Democracy - PASOK governments, and the third recapitalisation were carried out with different characteristics? Didn't they have any common attributes? They didn't charge the people a new government debt? The cost for the people of the first two recapitalisations, which were made by the New Democracy and the PASOK, and which "bought" state debt, was 39 billion. These 39 billion are now being dismantled, they will never be recovered. I am referring to what the Financial Stability Fund has offered as capital for the recapitalisation of systemic banks, for the first and second recapitalisations, and today the state - SYRIZA and ANEL - have contributed to the recapitalisation of banks. Did all this lead to lowering the debtd households? Has their position changed? Oh, no. The overcharge remains with government policy, and the auction-protection sweater for overdeclared households with first home auctions and the rest of the tools that popular mattresses may have as assets. This recapitalisation of the banks did not lead to even greater merger and concentration in the financial system? There are four systemic banks left and may be fewer. And this concentration in the financial system that was launched by New Democracy and is being completed today with the SYRIZA - ANEL - its first phase, and we will then have and will then - did not result in any worsening of the position of the bank officials? You're both responsible. Both the New Democracy and the PASOK and the SYRIZA - ANEL. Finally, this huge flight of deposits, which was imposed on capital control, was only a feature of SYRIZA - ANEL governance? And your governance wasn't hugely escaping deposits from the financial system? And is the freedom to move capital that you defend with nails and teeth all the parties, a feature of the Maastricht Treaty? In other words, everyone has the right to transfer their funds where they want to be integrated into the European banking system and there is no problem at all. So, as you think, some people took the deposits abroad, protected their assets from the system, the capitalists and led to the bankruptcy of the financial system through these moves, bankruptcies called on the Greek people and the working class to pay it. And for them, neither cat nor damage. They will suffer nothing legitimately, based on your civil law and the agreements of the European Union, they have made their money and have secured their huge assets abroad. Of course, the government policy of SYRIZA - ANEL, which we followed last year since January 2015, was nothing different from the government policy of the New Democracy and PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u39	That's too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u40	We had continued on substance and this continuation, Mr Tsakalotos, was sealed with the agreement of 20 February that you extended the second memorandum and the loan contract for four months. Therefore, the negotiation of the SYRIZA - ANEL on Greece's membership of the European Union has not been called into question. He never questioned that thing. In fact, from the outset and ahead of the elections in Genoa, Mr Tsipras said that we will respect our obligations towards the European Union, we will respect the strategic choices of the European Union. So when did you question these? Have all this ever been questioned? And precisely because of the fact that this position of Greece has not been called into question and because Mr Varoufakis himself had stated to Mrs Lagard that we will serve the state debt in the dilemma, where were you led after the agreement of 20 February? To resort to internal lending, to pay rejoicingly the government debt service. So, the tough negotiation you have made, you have not done it with a view to alleviating the people, but you have done it with a view to addressing the weaknesses and shortcomings of the previous memoranda, as you have pointed out. And who were they? That they could not quickly lead to the recovery of the economy, i.e. the capitalist revival. So who did you make this negotiation for? On behalf of the capital and the monopoly groups. That is why you have had the support of BSE in your negotiation process, because through this process you want to shape an even more favourable ground, so that the business groups in our country can develop and open the way to recovery. So that was the other mixture. The other mixture was how we would give the state mix warm to the capitalist groups and not to serve the state debt. On the substance of this, your negotiation was part of a more general negotiation which was being conducted and is now continuing between the imperialist centres, the United States on the one hand and the European Union on the other hand, on the most important part of the capitalist crisis and the management of huge government debts. That's the point. That is why the International Monetary Fund is the constant need to cut off state debts not only of Greece but also of the rest of the states that have high government debts. In this context, a wider competition dispute between the imperialist centres was integrated, taking part when or when with the other imperialist side, the negotiation you have made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u42	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, the conclusion, which comes out, is that no matter how hard negotiations within the walls, under conditions of capital domination, and by accepting the strategic choices of the European Union and Greece's participation in them, it will never lead to a relief of popular strata. This was reflected in the first assessment you made, and the second assessment that the government will make in the autumn of the year to implement the Memorandum. From this point of view, we say that the people must show no tolerance. He must immediately organize his struggle, fight against the government, claiming not only relief, but also the overall break and overthrow. From this point of view, Mr President - and I would like to close with this and thank you for the tolerance of time - the JRC will vote 'at present' in the creation of this committee of inquiry, as we have done in the SYRIZA proposal - ANEL on the establishment of a committee of inquiry into the Memorandums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u43	Thank you. Mr Jason Fotella has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot forget what happened in our home country in the first half of the governance SYRIZA - ANEL, from February to July 2015, not from a sense of vengeance, but because the consequences for the economy and society were disastrous with the failed negotiation of Mr Tsipras and Mr Varoufakis. Besides, the Prime Minister himself admitted it a few months later that it was a bad choice to delay the conclusion of the agreement. I present in the minutes his interview on 3-9-2015 at the radio station of SYRIZA “In Red”, where he clearly states, “Since February 2015, we should have finished negotiating”. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, we must look back at this period, because, as I said, there have been negative consequences for both the economy and society, from the climate of division that the Tsipras - Kammenos - Baroufakis government has caused. But let's take it in turn. With your election on January 25, 2015, you rushed to form a government with ANELs and inaugurated, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the inclusive tough negotiation with the institutions. In this context you have cultivated expectations that there was supposedly another policy, where all by magic will be solved. They'd get tired of debts while you knew that would lead us to unscrupulous bankruptcy, they wouldn't pay HNVIA, while you knew it was impossible to find money from elsewhere, the pensions would increase, while you knew that you didn't have the opportunities, that taxes would be reduced and that only the wealthy would be paid. You also cultivated hatred in society against Europe. I am tabling a photograph of my colleague and MP, Mr Dimitris Kammenos, who compared Europe with Dachau, while, at the same time, putting out, through irresponsible spirits for supposedly billions of euros, who would enter from third countries, the Russians and the Chinese. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, you didn't want to sign a deal, smuggling anyone who inclined you back then. I remember what you said to our leader, Mr Theodorakis, and to our MPs every time we told you to close an honest agreement: Understood, compromised, troika people and others. But what happened to the real economy? The bank outflow has gradually increased because of the insecurity that you have cultivated. The 47 billion, who winged from the banks in a few months, was not the money of the wage earners or the micro-retired. It was, especially until March 2015, the money they made from the occupants. The so-called tough six-month negotiation gave you all the time and the opportunity to make their money out, those who had high deposits, forwards and liquid investments. Thus, in June, insurance funds and various organizations left, payroll and movement money for businesses, some over-aged deposits and people with few deposits, that is, who did not have time or could no longer send out his money. The climate of optimism evaporated in a few months and the agony returned again. The conclusion of the so-called negotiation is well known. The referendum - fiasco, the closure of the banks and, at the end, the signing of a third memorandum, the toughest of all, which you are now applying against everything that you have promised the citizens, with exterminated overtaxation for them and for businesses. Not only did ENVY leave but also increased, VAT went to 23% and today to 24%, privatizations took place for a hundred years, pensions not only increased, but decreased - further reductions are coming in the winter - and the ESS has been cut. For the first time, there have been so many lies and promises that have not been kept. The banks, especially after you closed them down as a consequence of your policy by deciding and signing Tsipras and Varoufakis, imposing restrictions on the movement of money, lost their value and needed new funds, with several additional billion euros to move on. The Greek economy came back into recession for 2015 and 2016 and the lower surpluses, which you supposedly have achieved, constituted a feathery. As much as you're trying to change the agenda by electoral laws or consumables for the constitutional review, this reality doesn't change. You are already experiencing the wrath of the citizens for your political exodus and the promises that have not been made. The love relationship Mr. Tsipras said he has built with the world abruptly. And the worst is in front of us in the winter. So these were the consequences of your policy and you are accountable for it. As Mr Galbraith has revealed, you have recently prepared cooperation with Mr Varoufakis, but also with the military, with Mr Kammenos, an alternative plan for the relief of the state with creepy details, which, fortunately, the Prime Minister did not act on at the end. We demand answers to the raid plans at the Mint, IOU version as payment mode, and the role of the army. Mr Tsipras and Mr Tsipras in particular - you must account for the plan A that you have finally implemented and led us to adventures. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry in order to shed plenty of light on the case and to account for responsibility. After all, Mr. Tsipras had accepted the establishment of a committee of inquiry into the memorandums. Do you know that the only committee of inquiry that has not yet been completed, which has not yet come to an end, is the committee of inquiry for the memoranda? I remember the big words, the heavy declarations, 'it will be abundant light','responsibility'. Suddenly we opened the drawer, put it underneath and go for more. Really, now, do you have anything to fear from considering the conditions from which we led to the vote of your third memorial? The Greek people must be informed exactly what happened at the time, especially about the bad game you played with the life savings that the world was in danger of losing. But you have also done, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said above, an extra evil in Greek society at the same time, for which you are also accountable. And it is never too late to apologize to the Greek people. You sprinkled the microbe of division in Greek society with a culmination in the week of the referendum - parody. Remember that week, early July 2016. Dividing week, foolishness, hatred, week that could have been dyed with blood and civil conflict. They were days of your unresolved government, which after dismantling the economy and the prospect of social coexistence, casting on Kaidas all the previous sacrifices of the Greek people, built a new division instead of the necessary understanding. We, in contrast to your divisive policy, have taken a stand of principle since the beginning of our presence in the House. We told you from the outset - although we were mocking, as I said at the outset - that you should have reached an honest agreement in order to move forward with the necessary reforms and to change them all for the benefit of the citizens. Now, however, this is the time for explanations, which you must give to the House and to the citizens for all the suffering you have caused and for all the suffering you continue to cause to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. We proceed to Mr. Dimitris Kammenos, Representative of the Independent Greeks. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a year and a half in the House I have been present in too many debates, I have made several suggestions and have heard too many arguments in relation to the country's finances. We've made budgets. We've checked budgets. We've made reports. I participated in the committee of inquiry on how we entered the memorandum, which was stopped because of the elections. But they had enough conclusions on it. I shall submit a number of information today from the previous committee of inquiry. This government, when it took power last year in January, had a mandate and continued our re-election to the government in September 2015. It was the country's salvation as an equal member of the European Union within the euro - the mandate was clear and clear - by invoking the law. And here I am going to give a parentheses, not of forced law or of the law of need. I think we understand what I mean. There has been a decisive negotiation, with too many arguments technically, technically and politically. There were clear suggestions at the table. Let me remind you of the debt exchange at low interest rates. We discussed this last April. We had made costing swaps with debt, with the ESM and the International Monetary Fund, for trans-national debts, for EFSF debts at that time, for 52.9 billion. Our aim has always been to protect sensitive groups and nothing more than that. The effects of the first two Memorandums were clear, unresponsive and in absolute numbers - I will say it briefly - extraordinarily for any government who took the country's governance at that time. We had to relieve poor layers of Greek society. We did that. We tried to open up some business. The latest data from EUROSTAT are not available because they are not of interest. Unemployment fell from 27% to 23%. But we received ninety-eighty, eighty-eighty thousand young people and thirty-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two. For a country's management, economists know the basic: All are transporting containers. For example, the nine hundred ninety - eighty - five thousand unemployed, created by the PASOK and New Democracy governments, had a direct impact on insurance contributions. We had reduced contributions of 8.3 billion for unemployment. That is, they've cleared the funds. And then the PSI came in and dismantled it with another 12.5 billion, along with the banks. In last year's debt negotiation, as well as in relation to the cost, which has been analysed many times, we have succeeded very quickly - and here at least we had to listen to a 'bravo' set of counter-population - the 54.5 billion, which was the three-year outstanding debts, the debt-solving debts, which were delivered to us by PASOK and New Democracy, instead of paying for three years, we took them to thirty-and-a-half and the 3.8% interim interest rate of the International Monetary Fund - which exceeded 4% - we went to 1%. As Mr Venizelos says, a constitutional economist, this in net present value falls below 20% of the value of 54 billion. A 'thank you', a 'bravo' we did not hear. And I said to Mr Moschovisi - and he agreed - that Europe has already accepted a cut in Greek debt, with the restructuring of the 54 billion that this government has achieved over the coming years. We got a wall for the banks we didn't use. We took 7 billion more and 2.5 billion more for payments to the International Monetary Fund, which we were negotiating is not the International Monetary Fund - and even - within the agreement. Last year, Mr. Shoeble had different views and wanted to get us out of the euro together with Mr. Diaselblum and the plan Z cage." I'll close my speech with Plan Z last year. I will testify the debt profile for everyone, with the end of June 321 billion, with all the analysis, to know where we are and what we received. I now come to the matter with the banks, because it is the big deal. Here, we have a lot of issues and I ask the PASOK and the New Democracy Government for formal and direct responsibility. Financial Stability Fund, the 'our heart fund', the fund that received bonds of EUR 25 billion from EFSF and the total recapitalisation capital of the banks of around EUR 41 billion, which it put into the banks instead of recapitalisation. I will testify from the financial situation of the CFSF - not my own figures - that on 31-3-2015 - that is, we had one month government - the cumulative losses, the impairment of the value of the shares of the public, that is, the credits taken by the Greek people and delivered to us by the Government of the New Democracy and PASOK, were 30,169 billion. Damage! We had lost 30.2 billion in March 2015 from the capital we had put into banks, from thirty-nine. In this context, the Commission considers that the following elements are relevant to the assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market: (i) the assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market; (ii) the assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal I'll testify. They are the official evidence, all the impairment of the value of the property of the Greek people. For this disgrace, who's going to do an examination? Who was responsible for the depreciation of 30.2 billion shares? Our governance? We weren't government on 31-12. We were a month government in March 2015. Here's a nice responsibility and a nice proposal for an examination. Where did they go 30 billion and why did they get lost? From what governance? What mistakes were made and we lost 30 billion by March 2015? The impact of the previous measures in Greece - I have a double page to present, with full analysis - is EUR 61 billion, EUR 58 billion, the amount of measures 2010-2014 and the footprint on GDP 61.1 billion. It's the full analysis for anyone who wants to study them. Here I will also leave you a table of latexes, because unemployment, padlocks and dues, together with the increase in red loans - I will also present this table for the Minutes - because we have gone to 79 billion from the 22 billion. Within four years we have increased by 53 billion red loans. Add all this. And our government is coming to give it a solution. In other words, we have added 55 billion red loans together with increased 27 billion outstanding debts. It's all the month-on-month analysis. There's no lie. It's from the State General Accounting Office. A bomb! At the end of 2014, when Mr Samaras' government failed to complete the negotiation - it is not now, of course, the place and time to analyse this - he told us about development and the developed economy. I mean that the depreciation of the Greek economy from September 2014 to December 2014 was such that Greece was on the verge of bankruptcy in 2014. Here's the risk premium table, how they ejected in December 2014. The markets told the government of Samara that we would go bankrupt. This was the success story that we received and elections took place after a month and a half. Here are the CDs of the five-year-old Greece. Look what's going on December 2014. I'll testify to that, too. We are now going to the inaccuracies that we heard about how good the negotiation was and what a fine agreement it would have given us or would have continued if there were no elections. Preventive support line. How many of you have heard the terms and have seen the term C that we're talking about? What is the preventive support line? It's a support line provided by the ESS. I'll testify to you all. In paragraph 4.2 I have sloganed it - it says that it is prerequisite for the preventive line of support. They're ESM papers Mr. Samaras would sign. That's what they hid, 'cause they didn't want to tell you what preventive is, that it's the pillow. I mean, they were talking to us about free money. I don't know, I never even had free dinner in my life. There's a price. The price is the signature of a memorandum - clear term, prerequisite - signing a contract with IMF participants - without the IMF there is no precautionary support line if you want it - and will apply as long as the precautionary support line is in force. In Article 5, it says it in English very nicely. ‘Enhance surveilance’, i.e. enhanced supervision with the IMF, the ESM and the Memorandum Programme. That was the preventive line. Of course, no one knows the terms of the preventive line. I will give them with all the article and the Statute of the European Support Facility to see what we have been through. That is, they took us directly to a Memorandum with the IMF, with an agreement by November 2015, and if so! At the same time, they also agreed on the secret measures - which were not secret to us as we read - in June 2014 in the IMF report. EUR 7,566 billion was unspecified, plus six lines above the IMF programme, in Table 12.1 it also has an increase in both contributions and insurance funds. All together, around EUR 11 billion was made by 2016, not in 2017 and 2018. The banks were therefore destroyed in PASOK and New Democracy. This has also been demonstrated by the depreciation of the shares in the Financial Stability Fund. I will be tabling the practical questions I asked Mr Pantalakis, who was Commander at the Agricultural Bank of Greece when the PSI haircut was made. I ask him: "Tell us your opinion of the PSI and what you've been mocking." He replied: "I found 4.2 billion Greek public bonds by Mr. Miliakos in the bank portfolios. Ultimately..." - be careful, please! - "Other 4 billion bonds were added from the conversion of loans and deposits, totalling 8.2 billion. Of these, the bank’s cost of capital was EUR 4.5 billion.’ I'll testify a piece of the Minutes from Mr. Pantalaki's statement. What does Mr. Pantalakis say here? That during the volunteer PSI took cash, deposits and loans from government agencies, which were not bonds, made bonds and, together with the 4.2 billion, arrived at another 4, that is, 8.2 billion, and "finished"! Examination Number 2, after the first 30 billion. My proposal is clear. To become an exam for the PSI. And I will continue with the PSI because it was, in my opinion, one of the biggest crimes - if not the biggest - that has taken place in Greece. Here they have hidden some other evidence. At the time of the 'haircut', the Government with Minister of Finance, Mr. Venizelos, - if I am not mistaken - took money from the Deposit Guarantee Fund, from the Treasury, from the Treasury, took the bonds of 'MARY LIDES' and gave them to the banks of Mr. Laurentiadis, the 'New PROTON BANK' and the Postal Treasury. A total of about EUR 1 billion was provided by the Deposit Guarantee Fund. I'm filing these out of the board of CECE. He's not mine. The fund guaranteeing the Greeks' deposits took money and, in my opinion, illegal recapitalisation to banks in bonds of "MARY LIDES". To be another inquisition, then! Why did you get money? With what right did you get money from the Deposit Guarantee Fund of Greek citizens?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u47	Let's vote on it. Let's see everything together!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u48	I have to say it, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u49	It is clear that it is addressed to the government and has requested four examinations so far!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u50	Of course! Here I have the full analysis of the depreciation of insurance contributions from all the insurance funds during the PASOK-New Democracy administration, which I shall submit. From 20,600 billion insurance contributions we reached 8,402 billion. This is another hole. Let's go again to the PSI. I'll testify all the painting. We lost 12,450,000 euros from the insurance funds. Excellent! We've lost it! About the three recapitalisations and where the money went, 41 billion put the public and 7 billion put the private sector together, to a total of 56.4 billion. I have here the full analysis of whoever doesn't know it. It is a neutral organism, ‘GOLDMAN SACHS’. It's all the analysis that took place last summer about where the money went and how it changed and the mixture was made. I heard friends here talking about bad governance. When we entered the memoranda, Greek public bonds were 218 billion. It was not 78 billion that the German and French banks tell us. It is a full analysis of the 'ARCKLAYS' report which I shall be tabling in the Minutes. We saved their banks and volunteered and destroyed 38 billion in the banks, 8 billion in the agricultural sector, as Mr Miliakos said. We took the cash and made bonds voluntarily, so that we could 'turb them'. The damage to the banks was EUR 37,733,000 from the PSI. It could be that Mr Miliakos said, rather than "tiring" these funds, that we use them to recapitalise the banks. At that time, the bank had 18 billion euros of deposits. Nevertheless, we preferred to save European banks, funds, insurance companies, a few American banks, for 218 billion Greek bonds. I have not heard anyone talk about Mr Simitis' s swaps. Of course, friends from Potami and New Democracy, late friends and others, all hugged Simitis. Even Samaras had an election with Mr. Simitis. Mr. Simitis, the financial guru, swaps, brought us to thirty-seven, 19 billion. I have the full analysis. But I am not presenting it at the moment, because it has no substance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] He did "BLOOMBERG" an appeal to Mr Trichet and said "I want the Minutes, because Mr Simitis stole and deceived Europe". And the European Bank says, 'I do not answer you, because if I answer you, the balance of the euro will be assured.' These are in the minutes of the trial, of the BLOOMBERG. We haven't learned anything about Mr. Simitis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u51	Close, Mr. Cammene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u52	I shall close, Mr President, in a minute. We heard about the non-payment of the IMF. To return and say again that a default or a delay to the IMF - I had written them since last year - is not a bankruptcy, in no case, nor a payment stop. We're falsifying the truth here. We failed to pay and did not pay them - and we did well at that time - because there was no way home would go bankrupt, so we were in a safe environment. The most important consideration that the New Democracy should ask for would be to the European Union. I'll deposit the full plan G Our European friends were ready with Mr. Düsselblum, Mr. Asmussen, Mr. Symble to throw us out of the euro. It was ready. It was at least one of the footage they had for Grexit which they wanted. They had put all the IOU study on it. That was the team, Mr. Asmussen, Mr. Bootie, Mr. Thomas Vizer and Mr. Thompsen. This is the team that made Plan Z, Greece's exit plan from the euro, and they built the IOUs, like Argentina. They built the coin on the basis of a study by the American army.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u53	Finish, Mr. Cammene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u54	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's clear. It's all the evidence here. These people had prepared Greece for an exit, they had studied the IOUs, they had studied to close the ATMs. He says it all in, I've written it down. They were studying to close the ATMs in Greece, throw us out...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Kammenos, I can't let you talk any further. Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u56	These gentlemen would also close the interbank transactions. It is a technical term that I will not analyse you now. Greece wouldn't have had a way to make any swifts send money anywhere. For Plan G of the Friends Europeans, who have known since 2011 and 2012, Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos have done nothing. We have come to handle a ready-to-date exit plan with IOUs and closure of ATMs from the European Union. I would ask everyone to study and see who at the end of the day is responsible for all this. Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And with regard to assets we've heard...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u57	You're closed. There is no longer any more written in the Minutes. The abuse was justified, because the President of the Party, Mr Kammenos, who is abroad, will not speak at night, so time went a little further. Mr. Georgiadis has the floor and we close the circle. Let me just say that the Minister was asked, and he said he doesn't want to speak right after the first eight. We shall then enter the circle of the rest of the speakers, with a speech by Mr Loverdos, who said that, whether or not the Minister will speak, he wants to make use of his speech as a parliamentary representative. I would also like to inform the other Members of Parliament. If they wish to keep their speech after the Minister's speech, or if they want to, they can intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u58	I'll speak at 13:00, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Just a year and a half ago, unfortunately, an incredible adventure began for our country, a destructive course, a modern roaming misery to the unknown, that is, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government! And if the great epic of Homer ruler was the capable and merciful King Odysseus, who, of course, made the greatest contribution to the occupation of Troy, and in ten years was to return to the waters of Ithaca, in our time we are left behind in the mercy of God, the winds and the lenders, without serious leadership - bad lies - which inspires and gives hope to the people that salvation is near, even in the next decade. In this year and a half we saw everything from the "First Left". The people who tore up the memorials got caught up and voted for the third, which is probably the worst of all. And now comes today the Civic Opposition to bring forward a proposal for a committee of inquiry into the works of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, on what happened last year: capital control, a negative climate, a new memorandum. But why, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, can we only investigate how we arrived in the third memorandum? Didn't the first of PASOK, George Papandreou, and the second Samara - Venizelos? Those were the good, smart, and productive memos, and now we're in the bad memos? Indeed, the SYRIZA - ANEL scheme showed tragic irresponsibility and extended our country's unfavourable economic and social climate. That is what we have to agree with you. But you, now, gentlemen of Officerial Response, are introducing a new kind of populism and demagogic tendency. The proposal to set up a Committee of Inquiry will seek responsibility for specific persons. But aren't these responsibilities known? We know and who were responsible for the financial staff and who were in the leadership of the government. What do you want to look for now? For a special counselor or secretary who made a particular mistake and did the negotiation go wrong? And to tell you everything, what negotiation are we talking about? Recreational trips took place. Secondly, we are talking about political responsibility. That's the most important thing. The whole strategy was wrong in the first place. And what didn't we hear? We heard about intercepts at the Eurogroup. We heard about 'dou' in the Mint. We heard about printing and distributing promises for wages and pensions. And in a stable and protected European financial environment, we managed to drive banks to temporary closure, to impose capital restrictions. We even arrived in the summer before the Prime Minister, the former Minister of Finance, told us about Californian promises, the so-called IOUs, for stocks in fuel and medicines for a certain period of time and so on. The world watched all these criminal developments numb and incompetently. On the obvious side, of course, they were talking about allegedly negotiating red lines, supposedly seventeen - hour meetings, trying to justify the truly tragic loss of six precious and favorable months. They even reached the point of advertising their own memorandum as if it were the only guide of survival that leads to growth and misrepresenting the rest as maps that lead to destruction. What should one first say about the inhuman character of all three Memorandums? Labour relations have been overturned, thousands of people have left without work, families have been destroyed, taxes have multiplied, and wages have fallen to half. Most of our fellow citizens suffer or are desperate because they are in danger of losing their home. So when you have as a party and as a government sign a Memorandum against the people, when you have cut pensions from poor people, when you have put a padlock on thousands of businesses, when with a signature you've fired employees, how courageous do you have to ask to investigate the causes of your opponent's memorandum? Eventually, however, it seems that in this country only a great deal of enthusiasm is spared. There are no philosophical and anti-linguistic memorials, ladies and gentlemen. All three so far were literally aimed at the front of the low economic strata, microprofessionals, employees and pensioners. So do not repeat to us constantly that the famous e-mail Hardouvelis included supposedly mild measures - "works", as you call them - and that the lenders had accepted them fully, because if you wished, there was a comfortable time to sign your own memorandum before the end of 2014. What is to blame for your memorial, is to blame for the memorials of PASOK and SYRIZA. Decades of unreasonable expenditure, appointments, rhetoric, over-exemption and tax exemptions for having are the main reasons for all the Memorandums. Of course, SYRIZA has not ruled for decades, but it is only a few months to be like you, because the truth is that last year our country was at risk as much as ever - to say and turn it right - and things happened in the first half of 2015. Corresponding Chinese advisers, other known and unknown worldwide, outside the official government system, were allegedly introduced saving plans for our country. What is their common feature? They were members of the secret working group set up by the former Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, then always the Prime Minister, with the task of planning and organising a series of extra-institutional actions, with the ultimate aim of leaving the country from the euro and the Eurozone. And what we didn't hear about Plan B, Plan X or whatever you wanted to call it! We have heard of the country's declaration in an emergency, of the printing of promises to pay wages, of the granting of coupons for key types of emergency, of the state-of-the-art banks. Even for the use of Internet money, we have heard - bitcoins - or for eternal recruitment of civil servants and many other crazy people. Calculations refer to the loss of the so-called 'Varoufakis negotiation' of EUR 86 billion due to the leakage of deposits, the recapitalisation and the sale of banks and the more general deterioration of the economic climate, without taking into account the thousands of redundancies from the tens of large known companies that did not withstand state pressure. Who will compensate the Greeks for their cuts and wages, for the'slaughter' in pensions and degradation once again of their level of life? Perimeter proof is that these astronomical amounts were loaded on the backs of the lowest economic order, the so-called 'poor layers', is the third memorandum you signed - and you all signed it - a real tomb for each tomb - in introductorys - Greek, which is likely to receive a salary or a pension of more than 600 euros. Thus the SYRIZA - ANEL Government fulfilled its promise that the measures aim at the rich Greeks. The EUR 600 per month will henceforth be the threshold not poverty, as we have been promised by now, but wealth. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last year's evil that we suffered as a country from the SYRIZA administration - ANEL with the unresolved negotiation with Europe that led to the third memorandum, may be over ten years to overcome it, and surely responsibility must be attached to those responsible. But, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, your proposal to set up a committee of inquiry is not complete, firstly because we all know who is to blame for our Greece and they are not all the governments of the last forty years and, secondly, why you and PASOK have huge responsibilities for all the Memorandums. We consider it unacceptable and hypocritical that your proposal for a committee should be limited to investigating the reasons which led to the third memorandum, but also to the oxymoil, since you voted for it last summer too. Our proposal is to set up a committee of inquiry on the overall causes of the crisis at least from 2004 onwards. She's our suggestion, that's what we want. We in the Central Association do not make discounts and thus de facto this individual and fingerprinted proposal of yours cannot be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too, for the brief time. Ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues Mr Theophetto, Mr Javarras and Mr Famelos will precede. Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Dendias will be followed, who was left. Then they will speak - I say the names of colleagues to be notified - Mr Panayotarus, Mr Spartinos and Mr Dimas. Mrs Theophevette, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are being called upon to discuss the proposal of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group on whether or not to set up a committee of inquiry into the facts of our government last year. As we know, in January 2015, our country was in front of a suffocating financial cord. The Samara - Venizelos coexistence had not completed the fifth evaluation of the second memorandum, which had already expired on 31-12-2014. There was a two-month extension until 28-2-2015, with the fifth assessment incomplete since summer 2014. The aim was obvious that the country should be suffocated into budgetary suffocation, that the new government should not be able to move forward and submit to what was agreed by the previous government or collapse politically. It was a blackmail game with a line "do what Samaras didn't do and then we talk about the rest". What was involved in this fifth evaluation? First - first included primary surpluses: in 2015, 3%. In 2016, 4.2%. In 2017, 4.5%, and so on. What is the case today after the 'destructive negotiation' of our own governance, as New Democracy claims? For 2015,-0.25%. For 2016, + 0.5%. For 2017, 1.5%. For 2018, 3.5%. That is by 20 billion lower primary surpluses. Everyone today recognises the importance of lower primary surpluses. Even those who signed the 4.5% surplus recognize that reasonable primary surpluses are around 2%. Here, of course, you don't have to be SYRIZA to say that the Greek economy could not withstand such primary surpluses. As our rapporteur, the then Minister for Finance, Mr Hardouvelis, said in an interview that these surpluses did not come out, because they were not realistic. The government negotiated until the summer of 2015, where it was faced with the proposal of the partners, the Yunker proposal, which was put in a referendum on the Greek people. What did this proposal include for those who forgot? Tough budgetary measures, which we are dealing with today, but with a fundamental difference, financing the country for four months, until November 2015, and beyond that no one knows. However, most likely it was a new Memorandum of Understanding, as the four-month period was too small. The Greek Government negotiated a new agreement covering the country until 2018, an agreement with its weaknesses, but also with significant advantages, if compared to either the fifth evaluation or the Yunker proposal. Let us not forget that in the 2015 negotiations Greece, despite political change, required the same policy to continue. Every point improved in the negotiations was won with great difficulty, since the partners considered the fifth assessment to be a basis for discussion as a basis for discussion as a basis for discussion. But let us come to the heart of the New Democracy question on critical issues. Capital restrictions were imposed in the country on the next day of the referendum announcement, an unprecedented attempt to terrorise the electorate and with an obvious aim of riding the result. We can remember statements by top officials of the Officer of this time about the risk of deposits, assisted by publications of domestic and European economic elites. The Prime Minister of Greece and while he had announced a referendum, he called for the existing programme to be extended until then for fifteen days so that the country would not proceed to a referendum in conditions of strangulation. The request was rejected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can I have a statement from the then Head of the New Democracy, the PASOK or the river that refers to the issue? Okay, so did the lenders reject the Greek request for an extension of the program or badly? So the fear scenarios continued in the wake of "reliable" polls. If you remember, the most optimistic prediction of "NOI" was 51% -49%. The result was 62% and this gave the response that was appropriate to the whole old political establishment and was the main negotiating paper following the government's efforts. In these circumstances again with "reliable" survey data, the September elections followed, and the people again gave SYRIZA the momentum of the first year and trusted us. And this is the most clear and democratic response you have received to the request for a committee of inquiry, the people told you on 20 September 2015. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Even the economic indicators show that what you say is undisturbed excesses. The Greek economy had almost zero growth in 2014 and almost zero recession in 2015, in fact it was 0.2%, when only three months before the estimates spoke of a recession of 7%. And something that didn't come in 2015, but it came in 2016 and I think it's worth repeating it. In 2014, in the 2015 budget, New Democracy and PASOK sought viability certificates for the debt. Today and while there is a 15% higher debt repayment cap, which was not there at that time, more and more are discussing the further process of reducing the Greek debt. That's why she's never gonna be self-critical? Debt has been discussed for the first time by our own government. The economy has stabilised in its macroeconomic sizes, unemployment has started to decline. It's obviously still high and we don't celebrate, but it's deviating. In 2015 Greece broke record in the absorption of European funds by occupying the first position in the Eurozone with 97.1%. Two million uninsured have free medical care. The humanitarian crisis is being tackled. The health budget has been increased by 300 million, and six years later, recruitment has been made. For the first time we have results in the fight against tax evasion and in the investigation of foreign deposits, the well-known lists that had been forgotten in drawers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u63	Your Honor, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u64	I shall conclude, Mr President, apologise. From the outset our negotiation has been within the euro, within the European Union. There have been plans from the side of your political space, the Symble plans, and today the European Union is shrinking from the irresponsible choices of British right...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u65	Mrs. Theopevette, you're finishing up. You've already got 30% more of the time. Six minutes is the speaking time and you have already spoken eight minutes and thirty-nine seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u66	Wait a minute, Mr. President. So the European Union is crumbling from the irresponsible choices of the British right, which a part of Mr Johnson has made with Mr Farrand's popular right-wing right. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] I mentioned this because they are a reality which we must not forget. And we call on this examination to explore, among other things, policies which have not been politically selected, ultimately have not been implemented and have not produced results. But we have to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u67	Mr Constantine Javarras has the floor. Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. And in order to continue where the previous colleague, in fact, has left, ladies and gentlemen of the League, you are progressing. But go on with a walk that has unprecedented and unprecedented features, judging by yesterday's fiesta, which took place outside Parliament. And, of course, on the basis of the principle of informal political action that the Prime Minister has long adopted, the process of constitutional revision was under way. However, it has been done outside Parliament, despite the fact that Article 110 of the Constitution stipulates that the need for constitutional revision is to be decided by Parliament and not by the Prime Minister. Secondly, this is done within Parliament. And it is done within Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, for a very simple reason: because in Parliament all the people are represented, that is, opposition and pluralism. And that's exactly what's of great value. Because if it is something that the Prime Minister is suffering from yesterday's inter-democratic invitation, it is precisely his desire to neutralize opposition from this dialogue. And here, of course, his democratic sensitivity is worth mentioning. Because if it is something worth living in what is called a democratic culture, it is his obligation to respect and speak to the contrary. It is only Parliament that ensures that. And there is another issue: yesterday there were thousands of words worn down by use. We have heard them for many years and from other lips of other Prime Ministers. More importantly, some phrases of these are very historic, such as what the Prime Minister said, that it is starting a dialogue with the people, a dialogue on a new constitution, a dialogue that re-establishes democracy - with many wonderful things - and, above all, a dialogue that creates the state, this effort by the people, with the people, for the people. It's a phrase that we all know on November 19, 1863, Abraham Lincoln told her. It is the famous word of Gettingberg, when burying the first dead of the Civil War and during the Civil War he said this anonymous phrase, that the government of the people by the people for the people is what should be left forever. So what the Prime Minister has to do is rule by the people for the people. Unfortunately, not only do we see this, but much more today than I have heard from the previous Members of Parliament, all other things are available within Parliament to implement what Abraham Lincoln said at the time, of course, meaning the very great and important features of representative democracy rather than direct democracy. So in representative democracy there is opposition, which was absent yesterday. And for the sake of this opposition it is that the provision of Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of which this request for a committee of inquiry is being discussed today, the legislator - and the constitutional provision of Article 168, but also the one who made the Rules of Procedure - recognises the opposition to request that a committee of inquiry be set up to examine a matter of public interest. The fact that this reference to the prerogatives of counter-population is, of course, clear. It says this in Article 2, which requires a maximum and minimum number of 1/5 Members to sign the application and, of course, at the end of the day, the decision shall be taken by a majority of the Members present, who may not be less than 2/5 of the House. So, as far as this particular provision is concerned, but also from a historical point of view, as it is a provision proposed by Max Webber, in the work of forming the final text of the Baimar Constitution - and that, of course, was the philosophy of the provision - you are here today asking to show how democrats you are, even when something has been preceded by you as a commitment. You have already called for and decided that the House should be a committee of inquiry in order to investigate the first two memos and we voted as a Qualified Opposition. Today, therefore, precisely because it is precisely the reason it imposes today's Committee of Inquiry, you are obliged, if you really want to be democrats, to vote in favour of it. Otherwise, I'm going to agree with my friend Mackey the Balaura who used to talk about fairy tales. But this fairy tale you've given us the opportunity to live, especially you, for a year and a half is the story of a virtuous red-haired buckle against the evil blue wolf. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Socrates Famelos from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the first half of 2015, it was indeed the most crucial semester of post-state Greece. Because a three-fold bankrupt country, with two credit events, with empty funds, but also with dislocated society and economy, decided to go against the wave, go against the weather, stand up and up from the swamp in which the previous governments had thrown it. But let us see, in turn, the events that led us in the first half of '15s. Failure of the first assessment, December 2014, an evaluation with indicators that Mr Hardouvelis himself said, did not come out. His statement was clear to the ‘HIS FM’. All the negotiation of the government was on the air. The famous assessment that would bring us to growth was not achieved by acceptance of large surpluses, that is to say, with the obligation of new, heavier measures. But also Mr Samaras was clear in his interview with REAL, where he said that the lenders did not give our government the 7.5 billion, because they did not want two and a half months later to find this money in the hands of another government. Although he knew that the SYRIZA government was falling apart and came, he evaluated the country with tougher measures, while at the same time he left the funds empty, so that they would not find this money in the hands of a government elected by the Greek people. Its aim was to force the SYRIZA government on a left-hand parentheses, which was widely accepted by too many New Democracy officials. We had been depriving ourselves of funding too. The funding had been stopped, because very simply as bad students, we were leaving the evaluation. They had completely failed in their own scenario. Mr Stavros also admitted it when he said here in Parliament that the funds could not really pay the salaries and pensions of civil servants at the end of February 2015 and even the deficit amounted to 452 million euros. That was the invention of the left parentheses. We remember Mr Samaras at the Summit of the European People's Party along with Mr Rahoi negotiating against the interests of the country, at the expense of the Greeks, and of course, many officials here also assisted this. Others were urging us to buy health papers and others committed that end February will not live in Greece if there is a government of social salvation. But we are still here and we are standing, because we have endured and endured a system of power to go against the will of the people, a system of power at all levels of public life to question the mood and the decision of the Greek people to change the old, to go forward. And it is true that the previous government of Samara - Venizelos has sedated Greece - not the government - and the interests of the next citizens for its own small-party benefit, to regain the chair of power and redeem the conflict. But what are the questions of the New Democracy? Asks us on the first page of today's placement: "We have chosen not to complete the evaluation of the existing programme at the time." Obviously. So, do you want us to complete an assessment, as Mr Tsakalotou said, of 25% GDP reduction, of 27% unemployment, of 33% poverty, of 20 billion immediate measures, of the sale of housing, of the sale of public property, of redundancies, of all labour rights? We have ignored and ignored the European rules on negotiation and technocratic negotiation. Do you not understand exactly what is going on in Europe? This is the problem of European bureaucracy, which is isolated from the popular will and the functioning of societies. Obviously, the policy had to go back to Europe's debate. We have chosen not to use existing and available financial resources? It's a pity Mr. Samaras disguises you. He said that the money didn't get into the funds and Greece didn't have any money, and Mr. Stakoras confirmed it. Do you need to know better when you write texts? We are now being blamed for the fact that we have chosen to end the programme and not to find the public within protection. Do you forget that at the summit on 21 June the Prime Minister tabled a proposal - which I remember when Mr Dieselblum came out and said that 'yes, it is a basis for discussion' - and if the agreement of the Conservative Europe then was not to throw us into extortion, would there be a solution on the Greek initiative of our Greek Government? But for us it's clear. And the proposal today is part of your purpose that is to defend a structured and suffocating system of power, which was dominated by all public functions, not only in politics, but also in the economy and society, in the control authorities, in the banks and throughout the government. This is a system of power, which has been designed for two reasons, firstly, to take care of your children with ruffle, which is why you have made this anarchist, irrational public and, secondly, to renew this public system of power. After all, this fueled the slogans of Genaris. Didn't you then hear the society that wanted more democracy, more justice, more dignity? And every day we fall out of the clouds, because there is another scandal that is linked to your own political command. The news you bring now is that about EUR 60 billion to EUR 70 billion have been irregularly, taxed to foreign banks, with your own coverage. This is because they also probably left a bank where you did not agree to take the foreign deposits - Mr Samaras - where he was in charge of the development sector until the day before yesterday, who resigned without you to say a word and who was responsible for it and you were also in the Financial Stability Fund. We now, in cooperation with international audit bodies that you did not accept, underestimating the interests of the country, are trying to shed light on cases that have afflicted Greek society. For decades, however, a caste of untouched wealthy businessmen had moved black money and escaped, because very simply New Democracy and PASOK had no intention of disturbing their friends. We inform them, then, that this time of lawlessness, collapsing and giving to him and taking with the tax-railers has passed away. And if that bothers you and you make a proposal today for a committee of inquiry, you do well to bother you, and you do well, you do and you fear, because you are pulling this system of power. You cannot go ahead with scripts, and that is why you might put this debate before, because for today and tomorrow you have no proposal to say. You blame us for an exit prepared by Mr. Shoeble for a plan of alternatives, which Mr. Meimarakis himself said that you had discussed in the past and we had to discuss. You're accusing us of all the things we've saved from the trap you've set up. But we are still waiting for you to take a position on the coup, which while all the world was being trampled by the hashtag "This is a coup" you did not say a word. We ask: Did you want to accept it? Any funding, just new measures, difficult surpluses and a new memorandum? Because that was Juncker's suggestion. But you also mind the referendum. We know that you are absent in all forms of society. You want society from outside the decisions, the citizens of an aristocratic political leadership. This is demonstrated by the debate that is taking place on the simple analogues and the Constitution. But you do mind, because you cannot accept the result. Difference 26% in a referendum that you had with you all of systemic Greece and across society, which she wanted to decide for her interests and life. We made it clear. It was said "The Dawn" headline: "Agreement on Tuesday, within the eurozone, dominated by popular sovereignty and Greece". And that's what we've achieved. We will follow the urge - and I conclude, Mr President - that Mr Stakoura has told us not to make the same mistakes again. Because that's your stress. Never again do honest, proud, patriotic negotiation and claim. So we will continue, because it is clear. The function of the New Democracy is numerously detrimental to the country. And before and after the January elections, he succumbed the interests of the country, and that would indeed lead to the setting-up of a Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u71	Colonels don't even say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u72	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Colleague, we've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u74	But don't worry about it. The best Committee of Inquiry into your policy was the three elections of 2015. The people have decided, judged and judged you re-examined, and this is the people's sovereignty which is democratically operating in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u76	We will be with society and the people. You stay with the complexity and the interests. We will be with society, with the Constitution and democracy. With more democracy, we move forward, with our heads standing, because we are proud of our policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u77	Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Varoufakis knew him before he became Minister. We knew him because, together with Mr Stathakis and Mr Tsakalotos, guests of TV in the morning zones, in the 'bothcanals' - in the words of modern-day cocktails - these three said that there is a solution to the solutions to the memorialities of the traitors, the 'Cholacoglou', the 'Pinochet', as the current Prime Minister as the party leader then said in the House, phrases from which none of you in the majority took a contrary position. Today we say that these were exaggerated, we say they were delusional. It wasn't a lie, it was a delusion. But the one with political delusions is called a political delusion, and you must tell us what he is called then, when he is deceiving some millions of people on the basis of his deceit, what is the deceiving person who deceives the many? But Mr. Varoufakis gave up. The other two continue, the awesome economists of the other lines, by doing the opposite to what they have advocated and by violating the word of their political honor, as long as you say alpha and do the beta, champions of a visage du pantomime, that is to say a weapon in their hands by clowns and organized crime. But they cannot make any use of this pantomime in a serious way, because people in their pocket understand and have taken care of them. That is what they said, ladies and gentlemen, about other lines. In fact, I remember Varoufakis on Friday before the elections, one of the dozens of the ideas of the Lazard frees rejected by the lenders, presents it as an alternative to our economic policy. The welcome that was made on Friday morning from a morning zone was "bravo" with drum impacts, "bravo" on something that sounded good, but was not there. Well done. Since the election Monday, the 'parte', 'wow', 'plan X' began. In April of '15, I described him as clown, when hundreds or thousands of people were taken away with him. But he himself was photographed at his home in a provocative way. At that time, because I had taken over the course and had experience, I said he was clown. Were the majority protesting, after all, a referendum and capital control, a recession, a third unjustified memorandum, a bank recapitalisation and a loss of tens of billions, a leftover of the banks that are even today and - did we forget it? We didn't forget it - transferring all public property to a company for a century. A historian politician, President of this Parliament at the outset of the national division, said: 'The dangers you put into it mean them', but it was not right and that in Greece was repeated many times. I mentioned recent history. Everything seemed familiar and everything was known. No one is justified saying 'I didn't know'. You knew them and said the opposite. Now those who fought on the worst terms are calling on them to show a chance with alpha or beta uninterrupted solidarity. Yesterday, what has ceased to take effect for years: attempting politicians to draw authority from the constitution's prestige, delegating themselves to be legitimised by the text. You can't do that. That's what happened in the 70s and 80s. Since the 90s, they've been depriving them again. They give nothing when the citizen understands you in his pocket and because of his pocket and those he sees in his mind. Ladies and gentlemen, the days to talk about "SYRIZA B" are many. Every day this is what we are doing, in our opposition, in your dealings with each other. "SYRIZA A" is the theme in accordance with the proposal of the New Democracy, which we are considering here, and Varoufakis, the main minister of a non-existent project, which is very much from you to the new majority of SYRIZA - ANEL. You applauded with unprecedented zeal and enthusiasm when he said what he was saying here. The Prime Minister after expelled him - or after the man resigned - described him as "asset" and in reply to a timely question from Mrs Gennamas, she exhumed him about a year ago. And another moment when we will not forget about the Democratic Reconciliation. You left the previous program. Barofalis. You're accusing him of not wanting it, but you're the ones who put him. You're in trouble. An exam would have gotten out of this. We were preparing for new drachma policies involving the army, testimonies, promises instead of wages and pensions, etc. You brought the recession, you passed a referendum, you closed the banks. I said it a moment ago. I repeat, to add something, that when you closed the banks, the Prime Minister said to ERT that he mistakenly appreciated the possibility and availability of the European Central Bank to conduct policies, since Greece came out of a programme that brought Greece to decide on the closure of the banks. But it was not a matter of assessment by Mr Draghi and of the following assessment by the Prime Minister of Greece. It was a legal one-way. With unjust ignorance the Prime Minister did what he did and criticised himself as he exercised it. He was ignorant when he had to and had unforgivable ignorance when exercising self - criticism of another delusion. How much did your policy cost? How much did that cost? Mr Koutsoukos made an effort to assess the damage by referring to estimates of billions of leaders of the European institutions, the European institutions. These should be seen in a committee of inquiry which, as we support - and we supported it in March - of 2015 when SYRIZA's proposal was here - starts from the country's accession to the euro. We consider it unjustified - and why you did so - to leave the period 2004-2009. In order not to say that we do so on purpose to criticise the Karamanlis period, I was one of those who said "not pre-examination and examination" when Greece burned in 2009-2010. In any case, we say that since 2002, since the accession of the country to EMU, there has also been talk of the period 2004-2009, which has been a period of unrecognised political exercise, and then of what the representative of the Independent Greeks said today and of everything. Let's see them with justice. You're not accepting it. But the valuation and the possibility of the National Delegation finally gaining a common consciousness of numbers, only in such a committee of inquiry can be done, it can be acquired, we can be given this luxury. And one is ashamed to say that it is a luxury to locate common numbers and to stop hypocrisy. Ladies and gentlemen, did you hear the ANAL representative this morning? Again for the PSI. It requested a PSI Committee of Inquiry. We are saying 'yes'. We are saying 'yes' in the context that I have said before. But do you forget, the majority, that in the Court of Human Rights the lawyers of the Greek State, with your political supervision, defended all the arguments of Vangelis Venizelos? Everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u79	They won the trial.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u80	And they won this trial too. As the trial was won last year before the International Arbitration Court, as I think in 2013, this trial was won in the Council of State. All the trials have been won. Of course, we owe and owe you to the micrologues. We've made commitments. I have proposed to them that the solidarity levy should not apply as a measure for the recognition of a debt to them. But beyond the small confessors who trusted the Greek State, for all the rest you say incredible things here - the Prime Minister here - while Greek public lawyers at the same time tell international courts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Comrade, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u82	But how do you stand so much lies? How can the Prime Minister withhold in his recent interview the fair interest of borrowing the memorial loans, which characterised the tacoculia a while ago? But beyond our questions about what you feel or what you think without saying, there is a vague question that is raised to you today. Why do you say 'no' the majority in the examination? What are you afraid of? I said at first something Mr. Kaklamanis didn't listen as I said. I know what today's debate on the New Democracy proposal is. But what is the majority afraid of generalizing? Because she is ashamed to bring back her proposal last year, which led to a committee of inquiry in which we participated at all levels. We talked to colleagues there 'there comes a third memorandum'. And those of you who were there remember it. You said 'No, no way'. And he's here. Are you afraid of your shadow? With fear you don't make politics. Fear is not a solution or a political option. It does not save you anything if the citizen looks at you, but the search for responsibilities and, ladies and gentlemen, I close it down - the ending in common figures for the course of the Greek economy is absolutely essential political processes. Take courage, and if today you don't have time to change your line, bring our proposal to a next meeting, vote on the entire National Representation. Other parties are today expressing themselves positively. In this way, we will also be able to give as fair as possible and at last the Hellenic Republic will have a political system that speaks politically on the basis of the same figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. In turn, two parliamentary representatives have called for the floor. Mr. Dendias from New Democracy and Mr. Christos Pappas from Golden Dawn. I would like to ask whether it is possible for a number of fellow Members to intervene so that the list can be balanced, Mr Treasury. Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin to remind myself that there have been a thousand days since the mafia, paramilitary murder of our two young rivals, George Fountoulis and Manolis Capelonis, and the heavy injury of a third, Alexander the Old, by this vicious, rotten, Greek and parastate, which diligently masks this heinous crime. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, time out, so that the racing space is empty, because it has a lot of trouble. We see with a huge political courage a thousand pokemon coming from New Democracy and wanting a committee of inquiry to investigate, he says, the bank holidays and the restrictions on capital for the signature of the third memorandum and the need for a new recapitalisation of credit institutions. Who? The co-responsible, co-responsible, economic - and not only - for over forty years, with the thousands of manuals, the hundreds of thousands of Greeks who have emigrated abroad, the millions of unemployed, the two hundred and forty-five thousand businesses, that is 29% of our companies, which have been permanently closed down in the last seven years - and not like a few other seven-years that have opened up businesses instead of shutting down - with the 350 billion debts that you have charged to the Greek people with all these years, with the wicked and suspicious entry of our country into the memoranda, which has been based on a targeted, deliberate alteration of ELSTAT's data, which no longer speaks. For the 1999-2009 period alone, the Greek state borrowed 490 billion euros - and the sources are from the General Accounting Office of the State and the Bank of Greece - of which only about 20 billion went to real debts that we had and the remaining 450 billion went to interest, debt and other robbery situations. What bank holiday are you talking about, gentlemen of the New Democracy and the rest of the opposition parties? The many bankrupt and vicious banking system, where 71% of the state budget goes, as we said, to a repayment of debts created by you, where since December 2008 the banking system has received state guarantees of EUR 168 billion? He took 28 billion in December 2008, 15 billion in May 2010, 10 billion in July 2010, 25 billion in September 2010, 30 billion in May 2011, 30 billion in September 2011 and 30 billion in December 2011. As for the examination you are asking for the new recapitalisation, we will remind you that four recapitalisations have so far been made. The latter, of course, voted with hands and feet and the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. From the first, 2009, 5 billion were received by vicious and many bankrupt, with the second recapitalisation in 2013 they received 40 billion, the third recapitalisation in 2014 they received 8,3 and the fourth recapitalisation now in 2015 from a amount ranging from 7 to 13 billion. All of this from a vicious financial stability fund, which is a legal person of private law, but which took close to 50 billion from the Greek people, who borrowed on unpleasant terms, to get the CFSF and the CFSF in turn to give them to banks and to some unlikely bankers, who where they go bankrupt and constantly rewards the state again with new funds. Let us remind you of the sea loans at the outset of your parties, hundreds of billions of euros for New Democracy and the PASOK. Remember the sea-lovings you gave friends, friends, mistresses, who of course never went to primary production, development, but accounted for abroad, became villas, houses and everything else, and all that on the hump of the Greek people. Should we remind you of the hatreds of your parties? Of course, the PASOK Champion, where a number of fifteen ministers are either prisoner or are hiding abroad for a multitude of scandals. We are talking about the definition of a criminal organization with the aim of gaining money, and it was then with these parties. You refer to a committee of inquiry, you say, for the third memorandum. But you all voted together on the third memorandum. So why are you doing completely hypocritical in this matter. Along with this third memorandum, you have voted for all the painful measures which were included in the third memorandum, for which you are now hypocritically rustling or taking your urinal out on various grounds, whether you are voting for part of them or someone you are not voting on, because you know that others will vote on them. We have heard the new Republic's rapporteur talking about illusion, about hallucinations. Rather hallucinations must have the New Democracy Party with everything that's been going on in our homeland and it's happened all these years. You are very sad, because you see that some others take the measures that you very much wanted to take to show the good face to the international loan sharks who are working on the dissolution of our country. It is courageous to refer to a 'destructive referendum'. 63% of the Greek people participated and voted in this referendum a proud 'no', 'no' in the memorials, 'no' to all those who are working to break up our country. Of course, the other trustees, who turned the 'no' of 63% of the Greek people into a submissive 'yes' and even on the most difficult terms, were found. It is courageous to talk about swelling the deficit, you who had exceeded anything in this country. It is courageous, when this famous PSI comes to mind, where the banks lost 29 billion euros and there was absolutely nothing left for the microbiologists, who also lost tens of billion euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will give me some time, because we had the voices here before. Unfortunately, as soon as the European Court of Justice decided yesterday, which SYRIZA supported, other things said to micro-enterprises and now tells others, and with the same arguments from the previous ones, they have succeeded in not being able to do anything at the moment. Since we are talking about an examination, it certainly should be considered and accountable, above all, for SYRIZA to convert the proud 'no' of 63% of the Greek people into a submissive 'yes'. Not only for the few months mentioned by the New Democracy, we must go back to 1996 with the stock market scandal, with toxic bonds, where tens of billions of euros were lost and drachmas before the euro, for the benefit of a few. It has to be examined for the Olympic scandal, where hundreds of billions of dollars have been broken down, which you now give against a lentil to various Latziades, the Olympic real estate located within the Greek, and others. To be a committee of inquiry into the scandal of the Financial Stability Fund, as we said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u86	I'll be done in a minute and a half. Allow me. There should be a committee of inquiry on PSI. To be a committee of inquiry for the hundreds of twenty-seven thousand Greek compatriots who are currently working for 100 euros a month and for the three hundred three thousand seven hundred sixty people working for 400 euros mixed. To be a committee of inquiry into the famous Brain Drain, for our minds, the educated young people of our country, who, by hundreds of thousands, are leaving abroad. There has been a calculation that only 13 billion of this flight have been lost and the forecasts for the future, of course, are not prosperous at all. Tens of other billions will be lost from fleeing all this. A committee of inquiry should be carried out on the tragic situation in which you have brought the Greek people, with the depression, the mortality, the genocide that is taking place, the violent change of the population, through all these burdensome measures that you are taking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u88	I'll be done in a minute. We had the problem, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u89	What problem, Mr. Colleague, did you have? Fifteen seconds were, and I removed them from your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u90	It wasn't fifteen. It was more than that. Give me a minute and I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u91	Here comes your colleague, Mr Pappas, after two - three colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u92	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Thank you. It should finally be examined why the Constitution, which Article 95(5) states should not apply, says that the Government should comply with the final final judgments of the Courts. It concerns the thousands of decisions in favour of borrowers, which you do not take to help borrowers. It would have to be a committee of inquiry in the event that we did not have - and it seems - Plan B, in a difficult situation in our country. For this and many others, however, there should be a national government. Of course, this national government, if ever wants God, will be with Golden Dawn, so that people and Greek citizens enter before and above all, before the banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Spartan has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has questions and calls for a committee of inquiry to settle them. In this proposal to the President of Parliament, and also to the position of her rapporteur this morning, she is developing her entire indignant, anti-government account, which, from what we have heard a moment ago, is a sloppy signature by Mr Lovers. At the core of this account the loved theory of conspiracy involves - who else? - Mr Varoufakis, whose New Democracy has long undertaken to maintain the myth, which is of course a concern to Mr Varoufakis himself at this time. Does the plan for the occupation of the Mint, a choliguadian script, the double currency, the plan B or the X plan - have they asked the opinion of Mr Meymarakis on this matter? - and Grexit, which was their plan, Mr. Shoeble. Along with them we see a high-profile demonstration of the method and rules of negotiation, which were held only by them and not by this government, of a negotiation which neither their governments nor their technocrats dared to understand that they could do, except agree at the first time with the other side. It is obvious, however, that the New Democracy, in its proposal, aims to nothing but hide and hide. To hide its own responsibilities and allies about the situation it gave as a result of creepy cynicism of the project against not SYRIZA but Greek society, a project that surpassed amoralism even the policies they had implemented in previous years. I am talking about the plan of the famous left-wing parentheses that provided for the planned bank suffocation, the challenge of bank run, the tradition of society in absolute chaos for the sake of party, class and personal interests. It was quite clear that the recent statements by Samara that she had designed the fifth evaluation - an evaluation she did not dare to complete - to bind the country with tough measures, while at the same time emptied the funds so that no money could be found in the hands of the next government. At the same time it was Hardouvel's statement that exactly this fifth assessment did not come out. Let us also remember the statements made by its officials, which urged citizens to raise euros from the banks and from the supermarkets health papers. In addition, the New Democracy is trying to hide, because another committee of inquiry is already in progress. It is the one studying what has been happening for many years about parties and media lending, about exactly how banks were found with a number of maritime loans -'red', one would say - which also contributed to the need for recapitalisation. It is a committee of inquiry that sheds light on the whole system, where the Civic Opposition and the past mighty PASOK had ever built. At the same time famous for their indebtedness and their relationships with the political system economic factors are uncovered, their realities and their homes are investigated, they are placed under the jurisdiction of justice. The New Democracy must hide, in order to forget Mr Samaras' longing for ten Papastavros and, possibly, Mr Mitsotakis for ten Slavonians, both needed for a sure and healthy development of the country! But there's something else to hide. First of all, that they have already returned to the banking system more than 4 billion since July 2015, that Greece is part of the quantitative relaxation programme and we will soon have the lifting of the capital controls, which were further refined last week for natural persons and businesses. We have already for the first time, after many years, reduced unemployment, a positive balance in jobs and the creation of new businesses. Many of these were admitted by Mr Stranaras - to which the New Democracy makes a selective reference - recently to a committee of Parliament. A few days ago, on committees of Parliament, Mr Moskovis gave a positive signal about the development of the Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to recall again in the New Democracy something that is on the back of its own practices and perceptions. Last year's referendum took place, while the Capital Controls were already in place a week ago, making obvious who and why they imposed them. Will the New Democracy ever be placed if it agrees with the refusal of the institutions to give the Greek Government a short-day extension then? The Greeks and Greek women then responded with coolness and pride, passing through the test of their own examination, just as they were aware and then in the September elections. So he tries to hide and hide the New Democracy, creating noise. With all due respect, I would like to propose to the Members of the New Democracy that they do not move very much the wing behind which they are trying to hide, because now they can only do bad things in their heads. I, however, wish them always well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr. Nikos Dendias has the floor. There are three colleagues here, and then you, Mr Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, first of all I should like to thank the honourable Member for his gracious wish to be a good fellow Member. Of course, and at the level of personal abruptness, it is in direct contrast with a previous statement by a spokesman of the government-majority-majority that dedicated opposition harms the city, democracy, the country - I do not remember exactly what he said we were harming. Welcome. Now, let's go a little bit - very much - on the substance of the matter. First of all, when it comes to time: why are we talking today? We are discussing today on 26 July four - five days before plenary is closed and, in fact, directly in breach of Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure. He did not want the government to follow the Rules of Procedure of the House. In accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the proposal for the examination - Rule 144 leaves no room for interpretation - is tabled, distributed and discussed. As far as we are concerned, it is tabled, it is distributed, it is not discussed. And it took intense interventions to get us to talk about it just before the House closed, at a time of communication, so that the Greek society, with the well-known summer racists, could not focus on today's debate. This, if you wish, may be considered by SYRIZA as a communication benefit, but it is a loss for the country, because this debate must take place. The second issue is the substance of the committee of inquiry. Mr. Javarras referred sufficiently to her legal background. I have to say to you: the committee of inquiry, even if it has been taken as the majority right, in the sense that majority voting is no longer a majority right, but it is an element of parliamentary control. Parliamentary control is carried out by the minority, not by the majority in the parliaments. Therefore, the proposal from the Qualified Opposition to set up a Committee of Inquiry had to suffice to cross the two-fifths limit. This two-fifth limit should create and stimulate the democratic sensitivity of the majority in order to vote for this proposal. Besides, what was SYRIZA afraid of? The committee of inquiry which would be created would have the majority. What did he have to be afraid of? Why this objection here? What makes the history of the parliamentary majority stronger the vertical refusal to investigate a period which, in any case, is not simple? But I'll tell you where the matter is. Because there's a matter. What do SYRIZA colleagues come here telling us? They tell us a story that is contrary to what they say to the media, to their talks outside, to their contact with society. They do not stand out for the period of governance in the first and second period of governance. We are told here that everything was done correctly, that Mr Varoufakis, the then government, the first SYRIZA - ANEL government did everything very well, there was no mistake. Of course, at the end of a course without any mistake they admit the battle is gone. But that does not seem to cause any problem for this story. Losing the battle for the mind or the mood of what they want to support this perception is nothing that must take us back and see what we have done wrong. No, we've done all right, we've done all right, we've done great, we've put ourselves in a good position, we've brilliantly negotiated, but we've lost the battle. But that doesn't matter. But do you know what, ladies and gentlemen? I'll be sorry. For the law in force in the country it is of little importance. Would you do me a favor, please? Can you open your Criminal Code in Article 151, which, as far as I'm concerned, wanted Mr. Loverdos to mention it as well? You want to open it and read what he says? You know what he's saying? Any proxy shall be punished by imprisonment on behalf of the country. Does a gentleman or a group of people come to your mind that can fall under this heading of Article 151 of the Criminal Code? Do you remember anyone who was part of your first government or some who were part of your first government? Does your need here not to be discussed is to try to pass the second Session of Parliament, so that there will be the criminal impunity for all the crimes following Article 151 of the current Criminal Code? Is that what leads you to this logical contradiction, to have changed course by 180 degrees, but to insist that both marches - and the first and second - despite the change were both right? I'm going west, it's right. I'm coming back, I'm going east, right again. It's all right! For all these misappropriations - let me be classified - there is always an explanation and I probably told you the explanation. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is the fact that the country has suffered enormous damage from the events of honest, strong, proud, bright, diligent, etc. Your negotiation in the first half, which damage has been estimated approximately. I will not tell you what our political analysts have said - it does not matter at the end - or economic analysts. It's a new Republic, they may say what's of interest to us. I won't even tell you what Mr Stournaras says. But I'll tell you, here, what Mr. Reggling says and let me read it to you. They ask him, "What damage did it cause?" and he says: "That's hard to tell. There is no scientific way of calculating it accurately. I know that the Bank of Greece has estimated 80 billion. One could also stand up to the growth forecasts, which before the government changed, the IMF estimate in December 2014 is publicised and was talking about growth of 2.5% and 3.5% for 2016. This cumulative is 6% for us." So since he makes the bills, he says:'more than EUR 100 billion'. Obviously, you don't claim that we caught Mr. Reggling, we took him and we said, "Come here now, you're gonna slander SYRIZA." SYRIZA did it all brightly, we won, we put 20 billion in the pocket and now the head of the ESM comes in and says: "No, you lost 100 billion, because I want to do the favor to New Democracy." That story we came to hear here today. That's convincing, does the Greek society hear it and believe you? Of course, you call on us the other dreadful argument, which - frankly, I tell you - every time we hear it'sweet', your three electorate wins, with which you argument us down at the end. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, the people's mandate is not irreversible. It is not given once and for all. Do you have this in mind? Do you know that you have at least thirty elections in which you were around 3%? Did we ever tell you then that you were on the political sidelines?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u97	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u98	Oh, we told you! Well, I guess we'd probably have a point then. That's where you'll come back. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you honestly. As a government you have a great happiness. Happiness is that you have no intermediate crabs to pass, such as presidential election, etc. But you're on a run. You have only one possibility, to walk on the basis of common sense, to protect to some extent your personal and party skepticality. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I would therefore suggest that you return to logic. I'm telling you this. You may achieve the goal: to become the next Session of Parliament and to waive the responsibility of the Law of Ministers. But we in the New Democracy are not in favour of criminal disputes. We don't want to sit down on a defendant, that's not our bearing position. It is our willingness to show the image to the Greek people. Therefore, we will be looking into this issue. We will do, either in this House or in the next Parliament. We'll do it. One more thing to keep that in mind. For those who want to protect, if you want to protect them, criminal liability can be dropped. Civil and criminal liability shall be retained in five years in accordance with common provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u99	My colleague, Mr. Panagiotis SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today, about one year after the vote on the agreement with the institutional partners, we are discussing the New Democracy proposal to set up a committee of inquiry into the reasons for the imposition of bank holidays and capital restrictions on signing the third memorandum and the need for a new recapitalisation of credit institutions. Let us try to get in touch with reality, then. I do not like easy burdens, but I regret to say that the New Democracy under the barbaric title of the proposal I have already mentioned is moving an issue out of nowhere in order to make opposition. I'm afraid he works with past methods and tools. He used to do, as he used to, opposition to PASOK and could no longer function with the logic of overlapping and netting that characterised the complementary presence of these two parties in the political life of the place, has simply lost its orientation. The stumbled no longer works. When one did the favor of another, in exchange for the collection and similar grace later on for his own sins. Now you have, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, to have another party and now you are in another era. I understand your difficulty. You think there is a false post, a trolley, some muds in a press or some silver website, such as the ones that ERIC fed for your day, to establish the need for a committee of inquiry in the Greek Parliament, which will deal seriously with constructed charges. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, I hope that I do not bother my colleagues in speaking to each other when they speak. So let's see who was diligently preparing the way for capital controls. You set the record for unnecessarily negotiating. This can only be claimed by someone who has never negotiated, who has undisputedly accepted what the partners required. We should not have negotiated, so we should have honoured your government's agreement. No protection of the first residence, complete abolition of ancillarys by zero deficits and other such delightful ones. You were disturbed by the result of the referendum. But the referendum saved the country, ladies and gentlemen, from what Mr Hardouvelis himself admitted, that it was impossible. It was not your program that your Minister was clear. That is why, perhaps, he himself as Minister of Finance of the Government of Samara - Venizelou made a well-known exchange-export for his savings. Truly, the banks closed down and the capital controls came. Who threatened before the January 15 elections that if SYRIZA came out, he'd get his money and get out of the country? Remind me, who said all this? Who was it who said Greece would follow the model of Cyprus in the banks and on the same day 300 million left the country? That was Mr Düsseblum of the People's Party, the party in which you participate. You have tried, ladies and gentlemen, to overthrow the government in ways that have burdened society. You were moving that SYRIZA seeks Grexit. As a result, you must at least apologize. Did you really ask, ladies and gentlemen, at the meetings of the European People's Party, whether there was an exit plan for our country from the euro? Did you ask your fellow believer, Mr. Symble, if that's what he wanted? So who prepared the Capital Controls? You did nothing but describe a disaster that didn't come. Yes, we negotiated, although at the negotiating table we had to deal with the retreats already made by the previous government, the New Democracy - PASOK government and we had a better deal. You make too much noise about the 86 million costs of the negotiation. Go back to the beginning. It is 54 million old debt, 25 million had been budgeted to recapitalise the banks and it only took 5. Private debt of 7 billion, not new, of which 4.5 have been yours since 2014. I don't know how many doctors they need to understand those simple numbers. With less weight, then, for the Greek people, our agreement came. Sixty billion people charged him with your two memoirs. The present government's agreement burdens itself with 5.4 billion and is not very small. But it is necessary to put an end to the free fall in which you had condemned us and to start reversing the course of the ship, which you led to the rocks. According to the "ERGAN", two thousand new jobs are more than the losses. The balance of the creation of new enterprises still records the positive figure of 800. It's yesterday's news. In economics we are 1% above target. The economy and debt are stabilising. Is that enough? Oh, no. But it is the beginning of the upward course the Greek people expect. To go through the outrageous plan B. First of all, what government does not have an emergency plan, particularly in situations such as those in which we are in and in which we are in. Didn't you? If you had, what was that? It's something you haven't disclosed to us, and if you don't, we'll never know. But you know exactly what the government plan was, adopting what is written, flying and swimming. Let's talk clearly. What is moving as a Plan B of the Government has so many features of manufactured news, which is very little convinced that it is real. He has every reason to claim it. Everyone has every reason to include it in his book and you have the right to choose it, adopt it, discuss it here for promises, for armies and go by saying and celebrate. Celebrate, for the truth is that the most worthwhile misinformers in the Anti - SYRIZA propaganda service could not have thought of that. But I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that you should look for something more plausible. If you want to offer a positive service, then, I suggest that you, in fact, go back to the old methods, say goodbye to your old tricks and put forward serious proposals for the definitive exit of the country and the people from the cycle of terror and destruction, in which you have condemned the people these years. I see that you're watching it very well. You're three happy for what you've done!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u101	...a country without any problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u102	I therefore propose that the important tool of the committees of inquiry should be used for the reasons that exist and that we should not find it at the altar of micropoliticalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Christos Dimas from the New Democracy has the floor. Mr. Dimas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. I see that all SYRIZA colleagues are reproducing the non- paper that the Ministry of Finance has taken off. A little originality, ladies and gentlemen, it wouldn't hurt. We are here today to consider setting up a committee of inquiry into the imposition of capital controls, a situation that has very costly in the country and has moral and natural self-government within that government and not just. The cost of this decision by Mr Tsipras proved to be unbearable, which he himself is now aware of, with diligent care to build his defensive line. However, the justification for deception cannot be accepted. There's no delusion. There is no idealistic illusion, when the government had been warned by everyone, by the European officials, the opposition, the Governor of the Bank of Greece, but also by the current Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, who recently pointed out in the Report that every serious economist knew that the consequences of a Grexit would be tragic, as well as historical examples from countries that dared or forced to leave a single currency. I am presenting the passage from Mr Juliarakis' statements to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If, for some reason, the Prime Minister did not want to hear all of them, he could overturn himself. Mr. Tsipras himself on November 30, 2011 at the TV station "ALTER", commenting on the possibility of a referendum being held by George Papandreou, said attributes: "If the Prime Minister attempts to hold a referendum and to put the dilemma "euros and measures or exits to the people", then the collapse of the economy and the bankruptcy of the country will come long before the poll. This will not be a referendum. It will be a dangerous roll for our country." I'm presenting the Prime Minister's interview in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So let us not fall into the trap of reproducing their defensive line. No illusions were made by Mr. Tsipras. What we need to consider is if he had a lewd. Let's go to the data now. Interview of Yiannis Varoufakis, May 12, 2016 at Athens Life: "The deal with Tsipras was that we would threaten them with GREXIT. I've been figuring out the quote from the then Minister's interview. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the same interview it is revealed that the current Minister for Finance, Mr Chakalotos, himself, was part of the plan. Twice I have asked him publicly, he avoids answering, while I have asked him a written question for a few months, which he has not yet accepted. So, did Mr. Chakalotos know? Because Mr. Varoufakis says in his interview he knew. On February 4, 2015, the current Minister of Finance, when Mr.Giannis Varoufakis threatened Mario Draghi with unilateral restructuring of Greek bonds held by the European Central Bank, which was included in Plan B of the Government and if implemented, would lead directly to the drachma. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In simple terms, Mr. Yanis Varoufakis says that if the Europeans insisted, Mr. Tsipras and his colleagues would put their plan into effect. What was that? According to Mr Varoufakis, apart from the immediate restructuring of the Greek bonds held by the European Central Bank, they would create a parallel electronic payment system and proceed to nationalisation of the Bank of Greece. This plan, in fact, emphasised by the former Minister of Finance in an interview on July 6 in the newspaper ‘Real News’, was a prerequisite for Mr. Yiannis Varoufakis to accept the commitment of the Ministry of Finance and had agreed with Mr. Tsipras. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Varoufakis, however, is really tolerant and very proud, probably, of what he has done, of what he says and others. According to him, as of 30 January 2016, Mr Dijsselbloem had told him that without a memorandum the programme would collapse and then the banks would collapse or impose capital controls. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance again in an interview with SKAI, on January 19, 2016, revealed that at the time the referendum decided, the banks would be closed immediately. I put this in the Minutes too. And as if this were not enough, associate of Mr. Varoufakis, Mr. Galbraith with his text on 23 February 2015 in “Social Europe” stresses on the occasion of the agreement of 20 February that if Greece was sometime without a memorandum, then this would mean imposing controls on the movement of funds, bank bankruptcy, declaring debt and early exit from the euro. I put this in the Minutes too. In simple terms, it is obvious that everyone in the government knew what would happen if we had no deal with the lenders six months ago. But they moved on to their plan. What they now call Plan B was actually Plan A. They extracted state reserves, isolated us internationally, did not pay the IMF dose, humiliating the country in a live connection. How much did that cost us? A moderate calculation of the Governor of the Bank of Greece mentions EUR 86 billion, while the head of the ESM, Mr. Regling, points out that the cost exceeded EUR 100 billion. The ERC is making a more detailed analysis, stressing that capital controls have led to a fall in GDP of 1.6%, a decrease in exports of 11.7% and a decrease in investment of 2.7%. There is no case for delusion. The case of imposing capital controls was clearly part of the government's plan, in order to put the damn thing to strangers, to implement its plan and lead the country to the drachma. They were preparing for such a possibility. Mr Varoufakis admits that he took over the Ministry of Finance, having warned in writing from 2014 Mr. Tsipras on the risk of imposing capital controls and before accepting his position the Minister agreed beforehand with the Prime Minister a plan that they would implement. It is indicative that, during his visit to Chania on 25 March, he would be with the government after the break. What was Mr. Varoufakis talking about then? One more thing: will someone answer us from the government, what exactly was the role of Mr Galbraith? How could he have been an informal, unpaid advisor to Mr Varoufakis and at the same time knew everything about Plan B? How can a man in any institutional position be legitimate to speak on behalf of the ministry with the American press and US officials, such as the US Secretary of State for Finance? Did he have all this opportunity, because he was Grexit's informal coordinator? Who were the five - six who made up this team? Are we ever gonna find out? Are you going to tell us? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today the myth of Mr Tsipras' delusion ends. No illusions were made by the Prime Minister. All he had was a plan to put the country on adventures. He did that, too. What he didn't succeed is to convince us he negotiated, that he didn't have Grexit in the back of his mind, and that he was responsible for what happened to the strangers. The argument about fraud is the government's defensive line in order not to address its responsibilities for damage to the economy and the lives of the citizens. But they must explain to the Greek people how much the proud negotiation cost us and prove that they had no delusion for all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have heard that there is no need to discuss the New Democracy proposal on two important grounds: firstly, because we have heard this morning that the proposal was considered. The New Republic's proposal for the examination was judged in the elections on 20 September. I wonder if the people who voted for these things knew what we are discussing today. I wonder if he knew about the war board, about Plan X and all that. So let's assume he knew them. The second argument, therefore, is that we should not discuss the New Democracy proposal because all of us bad people here have agreed to support Mr Varoufakis' myth. Tell me to understand: To whom government was the asset minister? Ours? He wasn't at SYRIZA's government? Who has confessed, here in this Chamber - the Prime Minister to Mrs Gennimata - that, of course, he has given him a mandate to draw up this particular finding? Not only for this, but also for the preparation of a plan, because he went to war. In the war he was going to war, he had to have a Plan B. That is what the Prime Minister said. Mr. Varoufakis did not say so that we could support his myth. But what we have to see is this: for you there is no responsibility, and so we must not discuss it. There is neither political responsibility nor moral responsibility nor civil nor criminal responsibility. All right, I will suggest that we see that this whole process was a single project, which has evolved into many actions. I say this because if we start at the outset to see what the evidence could be, which a committee of inquiry today could investigate, we should start with the first one, which seems to be in the statements made by Mr Varoufakis and in Mr Galbraith's book, but in any case, the latter is questioned. Mr Varoufakis has said that since mid-March 2015 there is the establishment of a war council, which - says Galbraith after - worked in full secrecy, using safe communications and often acting outside the ministry or outside the country. This seems to you to be a democratic state, a normal procedure for a parliamentary system, which we do not have to investigate. Worse: The secrecy and conspiracy, which these protagonists present in the drafting of this memorandum, is attributed by Mr Galbraith to the fact that, if he had learned, he could expose Mr Varoufakis to even wider public attacks, which might cost him his position, but also the position of the government and leave everyone on the charge that they caused the collapse of the euro. This shows that the participants were fully aware of what they were involved, were aware of the collapse of the euro by their own actions. So here we have a parallel system according to Mr Varoufakis - he has called it that - in the Ministry of Finance, with insurmountable features, from the point of view that those who participated in this system did not have a mandate from the state bodies. They were aware of the participants on the war council and followed conspiracy practices. Again there can be no question of how it was formed and who participated in this project. The issues that this group was preparing, in the confession of Mr Varoufakis, but also of Galbraith, were as follows: control of capital, promised, parallel currency in the event of exit from the euro area, and the issues of printing new notes. No conspiracy on all of this. I tell you what those who prepared a conclusion are saying that they then gave it to the Prime Minister. They even prepared the length of fuel reserves, the safety of stores and supermarkets, how the pharmaceutical companies should be paid for - Mr Varoufakis himself said so - a parallel payment system. What we need to keep from this preparatory process is that there is a planning of the emergency situation in the country. Some are planning the state of emergency in the country through the operation of a democratic culture, in ignorance of the House and of course of the other ministers responsible. Well, at least that's what you're saying, no other minister knew anything. Thirdly, the memorandum with this plan is handed over by Mr Varoufakis himself - his statement and the Prime Minister's statement - in May 2015 to the Prime Minister. He confirmed it the other day in the interview at a TV station. At the same time, Mr Galbraith tells us that the problems were so much that the process seemed to be threatening for social well-being and the survival of the state. The Prime Minister tells us in his interview that once he read the memorandum, he feared the consequences of leaving the Eurozone for the country and there he decided, while he had begun to focus on it, that we should in every way stay in the euro. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I really will not need more than a minute. Question: All this, ladies and gentlemen, is an emergency plan which required the assistance of the Armed Forces, the Security Bodies, to protect the banks, the Mint and the Public Buildings? So, Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Panus knew nothing about the preparation of the military and police? That is why, because they have been declared in an unsuspecting time, we have to see whether the responsibility of a government council exists, which decided unanimously that the country is going to the rocks, knowing all this. However, the objective events, without any crisis, are: On 2 July 2015, three days before the referendum, they become the unprecedented for parliamentary times: The Prime Minister goes to the Ministry of National Defence and welcomes his Minister, who says to him, "Mr. Prime Minister, I welcome you today as head of the Armed Forces, here in the Pentagon and I want to assure you that the Armed Forces are ready to ensure stability within the country". All of this, conspiracy, the creation of the emergency plan, the mobilization of the Army and the Police...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Comrade, for the interior of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u108	...the plan that came to the surface months later, you think the citizens knew it and they came to confirm it by their vote. You know what? When the Prime Minister went to the Ministry of National Defence, Mrs. Gennimata had made a statement to criticise Mr. Tsipras for leaving the oath of the Minister of Defence Mr. Kammenos, and reminds him that this phrase that she said about the interior of the country and not the foreign one, is an open threat to the rights and freedoms of the Greek people and of each citizen separately. This was the single project, which evolved into more acts and ended in July 2015 with the decision you made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u109	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u110	I shall conclude, Mr President. The question is not whether all of this is a criminal, civil or political responsibility. That's what justice will decide at some point. But, really, don't you want to know and explore any aspects of this period,'save it, it did it all well', and on the other hand the Prime Minister knew it? We had an economic coup in progress, and at the same time the country was on the edge of the cliff, with its economic interests at stake and for all this - whether they were judged by the Greek people in September or not - you want to know nothing? We have said that the responsibilities borne by the government are very great. Let's go talk about them with an exam which begins in 2002 and ends today. All right, let everyone be inside. On the other hand, the fact that Mr Varoufakis is so easily released today and you may forget the Prime Minister's words shows that you are probably conscious of this responsibility. That is why we will be voting on the establishment of this committee of inquiry, as we shall be voting on and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, today's debate on the New Democracy's request to set up a committee of inquiry on the third memorandum, a memorandum which, too, voted about a year ago on the imposition of a bank holiday and restrictions, namely what is called English capital control and the scandalous recapitulation of banks - in fact no Greek banks - is taking place at a time when we have three very important and topical political events. Firstly, the rejected proposal by SYRIZA for a new electoral law, which expected it to have been ensured by power, by its participation in the new government which will emerge after the next elections. This debate was essentially on the subject of communication and, as is said by football terminology - let me say, Mr President - to throw the ball at the platform. It has been done to ignore the vast problems of tolerance and unemployment, which - notable - is increasing in tourist season, and to hide the granting of the Greek state infrastructure to foreigners, which is currently taking place. This policy is still being pursued by the Prime Minister with his statements yesterday on alleged revision of the constitution and some other. As if that is the problem of the Greek people! In the debate on the electoral law, the honest political stand of the Golden Dawn, as an independent political force that expresses the people, exists for the people and stumbles with the people, "More than all Greece, before all the Greeks". This position was expressed by the Chief of Golden Dawn, Mr. Nicholas Michaloliakos, who said attributes: "Golden Dawn is free and is nobody's tail, neither New Democracy nor SYRIZA's". The second issue of political topical and urgent debate, Mr President, is the commemoration of the 1974 post-election anniversary, which, as you know, was celebrated in the Presidential Palace and in which all political leaders, apart from Mr. Nicholas Michalliakos, were present, which was silenced by the'mass of mass disinformation'. I inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Chief of the Golden Dawn would not be present at the celebration of a bloodthirsty transition organized by the jurors of the military and politicians on the occupation and division of Cyprus, with Attila I, with Attila II, i.e. the operations of July and August 1974. There is a file on this betrayal, the betrayal of Cyprus, with evidence from a relevant committee in 1986, of a seven-sealed dossier in the underground of the Parliament. Why is that? Why doesn't this file open?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u113	He surrendered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u114	Why, in our constant requests, written and oral, to Presidents of the Parliament and the two co-determinations, is there this guilty silence? The third fact is that, in terms of executive power, it is a demonstration - fortunately, I have to say, a few and a failure - Turkmen in the center of the Greek Komotini, who claim independence - listen, listen - of the Greek Thrace. Unfortunately, their escorts are also in this Chamber. I'm not just talking about SYRIZA and his turcoagne policy, which caresss the sultan Erdogan, we've been seeing it lately. I'm talking about you, gentlemen of the New Democracy. So listen to the Greek people. Days ago, Wikileaks announced that thousands of electronic messages would be released for public exchange by Turkish ministers in Erdogan. Announcing the release of e-mails, e-mails, has caused intense mobilisation of Turkish secret services, who had carried out massive electronic attacks to prevent such revelations. An important part of the revelations, which of course did not get public in the Greek media establishment - and I ask, did Samaras call again? - it was that in the e-mails of the Turkish Ministers there was a significant reference to the third political power of the place, the Golden Dawn. In particular, the Turkish ministers had exchanged correspondence on the strong intervention of the MEPs of the Golden Dawn in the Turkish association organized by the European People's Party, which includes the patriot New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, any Greek citizen, a private or a politician, feels Turkish to go to Turkey. You saw how the Turkish agents joined the anti-corruption state, but how the Komotini residents - and the Greek Muslims among them - reacted spontaneously, Greek and dynamicly. Their motto was vibrating the city center. Their motto was "Greece belongs to the Greeks". So congratulations to these Greek patriots, to the forgotten by the state of the heroic inhabitants of Komotini, who had the courage with the Greek flags to save the honor and dignity of not only Greek Thrace, but also of the entire Greek country. As far as the proposal of the New Democracy is concerned, I said in my position on the proposal for a new electoral law, 'In the house of the hanging, they do not speak of rope'. Unfortunately, you, gentlemen of the neoliberal party, did not listen to me. You apply Mr. Tsipras' tactics too. You throw the ball on the platform. Why? Because you don't have a program, because you don't have an ideology. You have acquired methods of controlled political leader, in behind-the-scenes modes. Let me remind you of the aborted votes. You have acquired a political leader who does not only "take" but also does not inspire. Soon this political leader will be another photo on the walls of your office. I'm sorry about the hypocrisy of the New Democracy. The Memorandum New Democracy is shooting at its feet. In this proposal, is he trying to fool the Greek people by pretending to be an antimony? You should know, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that the people know who is responsible for the catastrophic memorials without committees of inquiry. He knows who started and spoke of painful measures, surrendering power to George Papandreou. He knows who tried to rob the resistance of the Greek people, representing the antimony and then proved to be a memorial to the Memorandum of Memorandum. Who else from Antonis Samaras? Your executives. Yours is the Vice-President who was taking on board that burdensome measures are theirs and not at the door of the troika. You enjoy with Merkel, Shoeble, Junger, and the rest of the cords of the international tune, art that has learned from you and your partner in the memorandum, Mr. Alexis Tsipras. I wonder why not a committee of inquiry from the time of Costas Simitis? Why not a committee of inquiry from the Savior College - 'GOLDMAN SACHS'? Why not a committee of inquiry into the scandal of George's ELSTAT, the protected and prosecuting foreign factor? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Why not a committee of inquiry on the PSI of Samaras and Venizelos that cut the toils and the product of thousands of Greeks, as well as the confidence that thousands of microinvestors showed in the stables of a state that proved to be robbery, anti-linguistic and ultimately resurrected? Why would the Simite remain unavoidable? Papandreou, who has recently spoken with the Prime Minister, in what capacity does he speak with him? The memorial and betrayal expert? What does Jeffrey Papandreou represent? What does it represent to the Greek people? And what's he talking about with Alexis Tsipras? The transfer of know-how? Why should Samaras, Stournaras, Papademos and his plus stay outside the committee? Why do you speak only of the so-called left memorandum, which is right, since you voted together? Why not for all the memorials that one is the continuity of the other and come to tie the country and the generations of the Greeks to the hostilities for over a hundred years? This is a hypocrisy, therefore, of the New Democracy, which is trying to use a painless proposal for SYRIZA, since Varoufakis is a past for the government, but also as a Precious Opposition he does not have a majority. Beyond your terminology, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the people know and be sure that the time will come to punish. We are going to say 'the present'. As for you Neo-Democrats, you are truly political prisoners of your political instinct. You prove it daily, at least in your six-month political presence. But listen to the words of a true political prisoner. I do not know whether you can be grown politically, because with your choices you have imprisoned the hope and future of all Greeks. We Greek nationalists state from Stepma this not only the intention we have for the Greek country but also the ending. We'll take our country back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Catherine Iglez of SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, so the killer returns to the crime scene and even as an interrogator. He calls for the causes to be examined and for the guilty to be found, but not for crime as such, but for efforts to normalise his consequences. Well, good, then. Let us consider, ladies and gentlemen, your objections one by one. They say the goldfish have short memory. Fortunately, however - and unfortunately for you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy - Greece is not a glass of goldfish. SYRIZA - ANEL Government took over the country's governance in January 2015. What state was the Greek people then in? New Democracy and the PASOK, with their agreements over the past few years, shrunk the economy by 25%, plundering public funds. Horizontal wage and pension cuts have brought families to despair. Thousands of redundancies in the private and public sectors and the business enclosures led the country to an unprecedented humanitarian crisis for an unprecedented period of peace. Unemployment was 27.1%. The homeless have multiplyed. Suicide due to financial problems became a daily phenomenon. So the new government had to deal with this grim situation. Who, really, have they led the country into this situation? Is it just the global economic crisis or the policies of previous governments? Corruption, the dismantling of public money, the "black" funds, the lists of undeclared deposits, where, o of the miracle, a New Democracy official is discovered every day. So you say that the government has chosen not to complete the evaluation of the existing programme at the time, namely not to complete the fifth evaluation. But why didn't the Samara government complete it? It's very simple, because it wasn't coming out. Hardouvelis admitted in an interview that the agreement negotiated by the government at the time with the lenders, in order to complete the fifth evaluation of the second memorandum, did not come out. More specifically, Mr. Hardouvelis admitted that although the surplus of 4.5% requested by the lenders for 2016 was impossible to achieve, the Samaras Government was ready to accept it, bringing even harder measures to close the assessment. Of course, there is another reason for you very important, because you suffer from power deprivation syndrome. The aim was to deliver to the next government, that of SYRIZA, who clearly saw coming, a country and an economy on the edge of the cliff, begging that new governance would not succeed and would be forced to configure. We are, of course, talking about a conspiracy with huge political costs, which would lead to a fall in the government and to the implementation of the infamous dream of a New Democracy and a PASOK on a left-hand side. Except the people didn't do you a favor. Three times within a year he showed his trust in SYRIZA. You say, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that the government ignored the European negotiating rules and ignored them. Did you not have the courage to negotiate for your own political reasons? Your alleged negotiation included subjection to the most extreme requirements of lenders, barbaric measures, poorness and impoverishment of the Greek people. The firm stand and the hard and painful negotiation of the current government succeeded and reduced the exorbitant primary surpluses of the Samara government, canceling 20 billion euros. You say the government's manipulations have brought enormous measurable costs to the country and the economy. But what is the measurable reality? Already in the first half of the year, the Greek economy records a primary surplus of EUR 3.5 billion over the aim of the new agreement. Revenue above the target once again is recorded. In detail, revenues in the first half of 2016 are increased by 3.83% compared with the budget, while tax refunds are increased by 13.93% compared with the budget. [[At this point she hits a warning bell at the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member]] According to data from the ERGANS system, private employment this year is a record of 16 years from 2001 onwards. In particular, the balance for the first five months of the year in which we are going is one thousand and fifty-six new jobs, whereas in May it was positive for seventy-seven thousand ninety-one jobs. Only in Athens in the first half of the year opened seven hundred new businesses more than those closed. In 2015, Greece broke record in tourism with twenty-five million visitors and made a record of the absorption of European funds by occupying the first place in the Eurozone with 97.1%. The Public Investment Programme increased by 5.5% to EUR 6.75 billion. The recapitalisation of the banks cost the public sector EUR 5.7 billion, while the agreement provided for EUR 25 billion. So don't talk about measurable costs. Your numbers disguise relentlessly. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member rings.]] However, I will speak no more with numbers, because even though they are the ones who determine the survival and daily life of our people, they today imagine pedestrians, because today is a special day for our country, a special day for democracy. Last night the Prime Minister announced the government's proposals and put them for consultation to the Greek people for the constitutional revision. We are talking about a constitutional review by the people for the people, about a new constitution, a new post-civilisation, a new Greece, to regenerate democracy in the land that was born. The old, corrupt and corrupt reaction. He's trying to stir the new, the fresh, the clear one. But he's not gonna make it, because the future can't wait. As the poet even said, the future will not come only of the netos, it will be well. We'll take care of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Athanasios Bardalis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the debate so far, as well as the proposal for an examination of the New Democracy, I think the phrase 'we are at work' is very close to reality, not to say that it reflects the reality in the best way. This is because, for all the reasons that New Democracy claims in its proposal, it is well known. Of course, in attempting to disorientate from this well-known, the main cause, the truth is that with a committee of inquiry, 'forgotten' and a little. You forget about the fact that the policy of the memorials is here, always present. You forget about the fact that all the memorial, anti-grass laws are all of them in force. You forget about primary surpluses, privatisation, reduced health, welfare, education, unbearable taxation. You forget about the fact that the strategy to strengthen competitiveness, the recovery of the profits of large businesses, the European Union's strategy means memorandums for the people. You forget about the fact that it proved a great deal that separating memorial-antimony was a fraud for the people. You also forget about the fact that co-government does not even negotiate hard for the benefit of the people, but for the sake of capital, which calls for more money and facilities for its investments. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from trying to disorientate, an urban party that respects itself and its mission - that is to protect the interests of capital - to protect its profitability and, indeed, in difficult times, capitalist economic crisis - wants to cover something else, which, in our opinion, is the most important one: with a committee of inquiry you want the people to forget the main, namely what the two previous ones have brought together, but also the third memorandum. It was that the capitalist economic crisis, found in DNA, in the very nature and functioning of the current socio-economic system, brought the memoranda, not any management deficiencies and mistakes. That is what you want the people to forget, the real cause. So the crisis of interest on the part of the capital for investments, which led to the closure of factories and businesses, to the destruction of small professionals, who have eroded unemployment at the heights, is the one that has also brought the third memorandum. The memorials are the way in which capital loaded the burdens of the crisis on the workers and poor people, shaping the conditions, breaking wages and rights, in order to make the famous'recovery'. They found this opportunity in a short time to take action in the drawer, which has been in the constant direction of the OECD, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and other wealthy institutions of capitalism, since the 1990s and whose implementation has been delayed in Greece. What is the responsibility of SYRIZA - ANEL Government? It is the fact that not only has it abolished the Memorandums and Implementing Laws, but on the contrary it already applies them properly and extends them further. SYRIZA - ANEL Government is consciously covering out the real causes that led to the memorial and anti-grassroots measures, because it is just moving on the same road as the previous ones. The New Democracy, in its proposal, seeks to silence the fact that the third memorandum was the result of the capitalist economic crisis, which is still under way and which she, of course, voted for. It is natural, then, that one casts the burden on another and restricts them to management issues. Anyway, it must stop this theatre with the responsibilities of the old political establishment, as SYRIZA claims, or the fact that it is the rule of SYRIZA, as New Democracy claims. That's why? Because both of them are trying to make oil out of the European Union's policy, but also the requirements of the capital that have been implemented in Greece by the memoranda in a violent and rapid way, but they are a direction that applies to all the countries of the European Union. When you break the memorials from their causes, when you do not answer for whom this policy applies, when you hide that the policy of the memorials incorporates basic directions of the European Union, it is natural and easy to show them as a result of error, policy of some incompetent managers, good or bad negotiation, unresolved governmental manipulation, creative ambiguity and much more. [[At this point, the ending bell of the Member's time is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The memorials were the choice of the ruling class in Greece to load the crisis on the backs of the workers and to make sure that any depreciation of capital that necessarily accompanies the financial crises is done. From this point of view, there are undeniable political responsibilities in all governments from 2009 until today. The solution is one, the people themselves will build their own final 'examination committee', but at the expense of the European Union, the capital and all the governments that serve them yesterday and today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr George Georgios Georgios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u120	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u121	It was a plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u122	Eventually, only the President had a plan. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been following the position of both rapporteurs and Members since this morning and I can see that. We all conclude - outside our SYRIZA colleagues - that there is a need to investigate this first semester, this negotiation of the first SYRIZA - ANEL government, which led to the third memorandum. This need exists because there are irreversible questions. The rapporteur for the ANELs also agreed, which, if I have noted correctly, said that at least four examinations should be made on individual issues from the PSI to previous periods. We don't disagree about that. As a New Democracy, we have never disagreed on the need to investigate and investigate issues of public interest. Does anyone want to say that there is no interest in society in all the issues that have arisen since that period? If he will say so, then we shall close the debate here today. So I think the need for this debate arises. We must not stay in this Chamber here today in koruna or in populist outbursts. There are specific issues here which need to be investigated. With the distortion that characterizes lawyers, I have to mention a few facts, which we cannot pass: the first and most undeniable fact was signed. There was a six-month negotiation which led to a third memorandum. The second fact and undeniable, there were capital restrictions and bank holidays. Thirdly, there was a need for recapitalisation of banking institutions. These three facts are undeniable. We are asking questions now: There is a portion of the SYRIZA Members who claim that all this has actually been done. If anyone comes here today and repeats it here - because in the indirect sense some say it - that this third memorandum was not really a burdensome one, it was actually a third memorandum, but it came to save us from the previous one, because it has a developmental direction, because it was essentially a debt relief - if anyone says so directly from here, because if they say it was a good third memorandum, they were good capital restrictions, then not to discuss it, there is no question of an investigation. But there is the largest share of SYRIZA Members who claim this: Yes, we have had to make a painful compromise - to him, therefore, the painful compromise is asking questions - and they say that this was the best we could do. That's what they're claiming. The irreversible questions are coming now: was Mr Varoufakis a very good Minister, after you have done your best? Were you prepared and properly coordinated to negotiate? Have you measured the European data correctly? Did you have a plan A or a plan B? Parenthesis: For plan B, which you mention was - and well there was - I haven't heard any details of what that was. Actually, we don't understand what plan A was, but in any case plan B, which you claim you had - and you were right to - anyone ever explained it to us? Did anyone ever bring it to us? Did he tell us his details? He told us exactly who processed it, who had it ready, who would manage it, who would do it? If, then, everything was done well, if you were pleased by this seven-month period, if you did not take into account all the warnings that the referendum will lead us to close down the banks, if you had properly calculated this possibility, and yet you decided to do so, why did you consider the referendum to be a very good negotiative one in your hands, so if you did all that right, since you have the majority here today, why do you not decide to be a committee of inquiry in order to clarify to us and the Greek people some issues that we obviously do not know about, we do not know them? That's what we're asking. You did everything well, you say. We have questions. There are questions which are unanswered. And you know, gentlemen? Outside today's debate, your meeting with history is legislative, and there the conflict will be inevitable, it will be painful for you, because you started a negotiation based on a lie. We forget about something: Your starting point, the mandate you won the January 2015 elections, was not essentially to negotiate. You fooled the Greek people by saying: "Get us out to smash the Memorandum." That was the order you came out with. You did not say that: 'We want to go out to negotiate better'. In fact you said to the Greek people: "Get us out to smash the Memorandum." Finally, you made a negotiation that burdened the Greek people in an unbearable way, which showed irresponsibility and moves that brought the country to great danger and you do not feel the need for all this to be investigated here. To be investigated. You may have done everything right. Maybe nothing else you had to do. Mr Varoufakis may have been a good Minister, his statements, what he has made, may have been statements made retrospectively by bitter simply, but during the six months in which you had him next to you he was the excellent Minister who brought the excellent results. So don't be afraid to face the story. Either way, you'll be summoned sometime to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Association of Centres, Mr George Karras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] We are already in the eighth year of the crisis. What do we have to do? Should we talk about the causes? Looking for responsibilities? Can we answer questions? I think we should do everything together. And why am I saying that? It is now a resounding resounding that this is due to the state of democracy in the country. I hear opinions from the New Democracy that it is useful to look for the six months of the first SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the minor opposition has submitted proposals from time to time for committees of inquiry, for committees of inquiry to seek truth from the past. You want me to say something? Eight years is not the result of an explosion, it is not the result of a sudden event. The eight years of crisis that we are facing must be seen, analysed at the time when the Greek economy and in reflection of the Greek society began to become problematic. When did they get into trouble? When an unspeakable appetite of wealth now ruled the country. I want to remind you of something. I'll go back and you'll allow me. An attempt was made to introduce the euro. It wasn't the best and most honest way. It is the well-known exchange of debt, which has been made - the so-called swaps - so that we can put under the rug a large part of the national debt, the public debt, so that we can go and say that we have met those conditions, then prerequisites, for the introduction of the euro. We did it. The puppets, if you like, accepted it, didn't understand it, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u125	It doesn't matter, Mr. Theonas. We've become smart. What did we do then? We've become very smart. So we said that cheap loan money would be released. Where was the main one? The securitisation over the loans. Today the loans are redundant close to 100 billion. Most of them concern housing and consumer, which the Greek people had had to take, either on the assumption that they could improve the level of their everyday lives, or even show that it has a prosperity. But titration in 2003 brought something else. It brought money cyclically - the so-called leverage of money - and today is 87 billion. There could be other solutions, another way of dealing with them. Let's go to the next one. The New Democracy is coming in 2004, becoming government proudly. So what's he doing, what's the first move? Special accounts. It has, of course, found a pre-historic history of specific accounts from the previous PASOK government - I do not want to level them all - and they started using the non-budgetary special accounts more than anything for party service, party purposes. I'll say it. So why? 'Cause they were running allowances. In fact, they gave income to a lot of people. In the limited world, however, the public. Those who were at the narrow core of the public, the so-called special accounts allowances. They never went through the budget. But the deficits were created, those which continued to exist and to create so-called surveillance by the European Union. And it wasn't just deficits. An entire generation of twenty thousand young educated, with Circe of nomination in public, they also entered. And they went in an unorthodox way. I don't have anything with the kids. They did well, they sought stability in their lives. They fooled those kids, too. Eight-month, six-month, fixed-term stagiers - to be covered with even the cooperation of courts, if you want, without perhaps understanding it - to be transformed into an indefinite period of time. It is those famous hundred and twenty thousand young people who have been removed if you like from the private economy, from the national economy. Because my opinion at least is that over-inflation of public staff does not create income. It removes wealth after all. It doesn't create income. While there should be a private and public balance, so that the private sector can finance the public sector and the public sector rewards to return contributions, taxes to the world, to the people, to the citizens. That's not what happened either. We have therefore arrived at an economic crisis from abroad and to create the conditions for the first lending of banks, the well-known 10 billion Habitats, the support of banks - it is not at this stage - which the other day came to be of no value, because the privileged shares that had been granted by the banks after the third recapitalisation have necessarily been nullified and yet, this House has voted for it. So we go to the memorials with the'money there'. So let's go to the International Monetary Fund. This is where the problems are now beginning, which are real. They're no longer secrets. Looks like they're coming over the carpet. The cuts are beginning, overfishing begins, the problem of money circulation begins, companies are being exterminated, the country is being demanded. Let's go to the second memorial. That was just as disastrous. It was not just a disaster the previous one that led us to the International Monetary Fund. With the so-called "PSI" private savings, the greatest fraud of all times, if you want me to call it, as well as the removal of resources. The reserves of the social operators were considered to be private requirements. We've reached that, too. We move on and what do we see in front of us? A new recapitalisation of the banks. We now reach the ambitious government of the 'first time left'. What did he do? It's not working. I don't give any more characterization. In the first half of the year he did not work with an entirely irrational, if you like, logic. He didn't deal with anything. Wait for her up-to-date help. So we've come the banks don't have any money, people don't have any money, and the banks have to shut down. I will give a small dimension and I shall end here, Mr President. It was published yesterday as a great victory, as a proud private person, that the Council of State accepted that it could not prolong the limitations of public law and thus relieve this public debtor of a debt - I think - of four hundred thousand euros. It doesn't matter the amount. What does that say to us? We must remember that the tax administration has not worked for all these years. Why didn't it work? For the reason that tax evasion should be allowed to develop, we should all be satisfied. In these few examples, which I have been able to give in the time available to me, Mr President, I would like to say this: I too support the proposal of the Democratic Alliance. If we are really looking for the exact truth, we should put at least on the date of the country entering the euro to see what is hidden, because if we stick to the New Democracy proposal that isolates a piece to control it, we should consider it in the form of a committee of inquiry, we will give political immunity and limitation. The criminal responsibilities of the former have already been infringed by Article 86 of the Constitution. Let us at least at least give political responsibilities. We need to see them cumulatively, because if we are to isolate them in the last six months of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, then what do we do? Get out of the carpet these problems and leave 'under the carpet' all the rest. We need to have a comprehensive response to the country to see if the country can continue, if it can be rationalised, if it can raise the head up. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr. Gregory Fisherian from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. We are therefore discussing the setting-up of a committee of inquiry on "baroufakia", for the first half of the SYRIZA-ANEXEL conflict from St. Gregorios until September, until the next elections. It was a period of proud negotiation. With high head, we negotiated with the loan sharks towards the "medicalists", the "German germans", the "dogs", the "Quislings", the "Cholakoglou" and all these triumphant types who wanted to hand over the country tied handcuffs to the loan sharks - blackmailers, until we have reached the point now the ministers of the "second left-hand" government of SYRIZA - ANEXE with tears in the eyes and blemishes signing horrors and agreements, in which they were blackmailed and threatened. The previous ones signed a laughing and dancing "chigoleta", because they were something "dogs", "Germanchools", "pools". The left wrestlers on the right sign with tears in their eyes, far heavier deals, far more fertile, with ninety years, cutters, stories, fairy tales, etc. But we have not yet put the Pinocchio mark of the government, not only of the sovereign main party that forms it. So this proud negotiation of six, first seven months, what did it bring? For the current government, its improved and increased previous government, but with several losses - let us not ask Lafazanis, Constantopoulou, the Army for the agreements signed and for the struggles that took place in the previous phase of the government, the period of 'Barofakia' - to see now what it says. Now we say it was a proud negotiation, but we should have closed the deal - the Prime Minister said - in February 2015. We poorly left her because she became more burdensome, more difficult. After calling on the people to vote for a proud 'no', we showed with their fingers 'young people', we joined the bays, but on one night the bays became 'news'. In one night, the next day! Terrible mutations and transformations of people, executives, government actors! Terrible! We forgot about the "I don't pay" movement and the tolls of the robbery contractors, which we increased. We also put new tolls, more than the previous ones and increased the prices on the tolls that we went down with "I don't pay". We were yelling in the world not to pay HNPHA, etc. We have abolished all this, and now we want HNPH, in less instalments than the others, the Germans, given that this famous mail Hardouvelis was EUR 1.5 billion, EUR 2 billion, EUR 3 billion, EUR 5 billion? It was not EUR 100 billion or EUR 85 billion, nor EUR 120 billion. It wasn't much of a ten. We still don't know how many times we multiply ten to get to today's cost. The river, the Democratic Integration and the right here were the interior troika, if you remember. Now what's going on? Who's inside and who's outside? Or do we have inside? Do we have in and out of these and alternating? And as we speak of within, outside, alternating and geometry, we must remember the Prime Minister, who, as a graduate of the Polytechnic University, told us: "Don't expect me to turn three hundred sixty degrees." After a while he repeated it as an acquaintance of geometry, graduate of Metsovi, and said we might need to turn three hundred sixty degrees. You know what a turn this is! "Dugrou" you go, as you were, just lie in between to cover this cycle that continues on the same path, just covering and disappearing Gavrells, Lafazanes, President of the Parliament, extinct executives, friends. The polytechnic's gone missing, don't tell you names. We've all disappeared! Now they are some new ones who, after yelling for the Squirrels, are doing garrisons. They were yelling for the PPA, now they're "doing garrisons". They were shouting about the Greek, about all that stuff. This sale has now become an advantage of public property. All these transformations and mutations brought us here where we are. And we all remember when the Prime Minister and officials of the previous government said that the euro is not a fetish and that there was never a plan to go out. And now we read the "buffalo" who left here - we hung them in the handkerchiefs not to open their mouths better and not to take out the tapes they used to write - and they have gone out and do some dirt at universities. And now we stayed here to show them what was wrong with them, but that was not bad, because it was a proud negotiation and we continue on the same path. We're talking about schizophrenia. We're talking about regular schizophrenia! We are talking about people who were moving - as my grandmother said - about the Skouries, the Greeks and the PPA, and now celebrate that these agreements are very useful, where instead of a hundred, the "swirls", the "dogs" wanted, now we gave them ten. And that's so proud! Why do we not want the Committee of Inquiry to be held? We wanted to be the last one. We voted for it. Do you want it to happen from scratch? From zero? Let's start from zero. It's done. Even if there are no criminal responsibilities. To find political responsibilities all along this long route. From entering the euro? Yes, sir. But not to do from Yorgakis without Kostakis. Not to do with Varoufakis, but without the next one? Why do we not want to proceed with a procedure of committees of inquiry to see where we are and how we got here? He may not have criminal responsibilities. If he does, we'll go into pre-interrogation. Why do we refuse the committee of inquiry? Can I tell you why? Because one brings the other. And why did we know that baruffalism, the invasion of the Mint and the guarantee of the army in front of the Prime Minister were not improvisation. He said the army guarantees internal balance, order and security inside the country, next to the Prime Minister - he said - and the Prime Minister "did the duck". He didn't say to him, "Hey, master, what do you think? Which army in the country?’ Nothing. Kitch. Achna. But that was not all. Some people bring them as scripts. Also, he is no longer "Olandreou" that Frenchman. It's not "Olandreou" now. He's a "broker Olad". We're learning some French possibly. It's not a "monkey" and it's supposedly Renci on the left. And that's all changed. And now all we do is not measured at 90 degrees, eighty-eight, thirty-sixty degrees. Because it's not a matter of geometry. They are ground exercises with the ribbons, pirots, assholes and various other cominciers. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, very much. Greetings at home.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Konstantinos Zouraris from the Independent Greeks has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u131	My respects, Mr President. "But what are our souls looking for on decks of catalysted boats shattered with yellow women and weeping babies?" My dear Stacura, perhaps this text has a lot to do with the seal of your own modesty. I read it with one, of course, suicidal diligence. Suddenly there is a form of cartoon, because it says: 'This government is missing' - what is left over there - 'the European negotiating rules'. That's how your text says it. My dear Staikoura, the European negotiating rules have already been formulated by Thucydides in C 11 and H 89, as well as by Isocrates. So let me tell you what the central rule is. Remember, too, the right thing Carathanasopoulos of the JRC has said about the nature of the public debt in the past year, where the mid-term growth over the last four years throughout the Eurozone is 20%. If you even put the institutions that have been left there, as Karathanasopoulos rightly said, this is actually another presumption of the robbery financial superpower at the moment of the capitalist system at the expense of the peoples because the Soviet Union has left too. The people still have to react only to the increase, perhaps, of extreme right-wing regimes in Western Europe, because the Westerners have other education than ours. What's going on? I have seen that in the major and minor opposition you have - I would say that it is a scientific mistake, but it is not, because perhaps there is a political feasibility, because you cannot make such scientific mistakes - the following: when you say, for example: 'They have failed, this government has broken up, what they have done, etc.', it is like talking to a vacuum of a test tube, where there is no aer. There's the chatter. The chatter is these rodents. Do you remember the previous ones? All Europe, even their own, had been ravaged by the 'Goldman Sachs' with a member of Baroz. Barozo suddenly with the 'pantouflage' - as they say so many years in Western Europe - has passed from the Commission presidency to 'Goldman Sachs', which had done that shameful achievement with the Simitis government, to shape, to take the economies of the people, to turn them into currency exchanges - so the swaps then said - and to pay for it eight times more in eight years. Anyway, don't say what that's called, because we said we should be careful here. But I was impressed by this text - not to say the bad word - that the participants, as an old saying, always return to the place of entrepreneurialism. Not to say the other thing. Involved in the place of the entrepreneur. You must decide to include in your oral and written speech the finding of sexual coexistence at all times in politics, namely that we have actually two camps. We had Greek Psropokotina, which received the fifteen thousand days of your own rule, and you are being cut for the failure of their fifty days. Of course, more than fifteen days of damage can be done than fifteen thousand of yours at night, but we can see it. So what is it that you need to get? That there is conflict and in conflict there is victory, when - when draw and when - when defeat is defeated. And Napoleon was defeated by Wellington on one occasion. But no one knows Wellington. Wellington didn't win, Napoleon was defeated. Who remembers? Wellington's got a station. Because through the whole career in Europe, I know them very well, if you do not understand that this very system of oligarchal and oligarchal, pluralist, which hit a helpless country, even populations, where you forty-five years have been able to bring it to a vulnerable place, then you cannot have organised political and scientific thought.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, decades of unreasonable expenditure, appointments, rhetoric, overcompensation, tax exemptions, promises are the main reasons that led us to the memoranda in all the Memorandums. In the Papandreou Memorandum, the Samara - Venizelos Memorial, the Tsipra - Kammenos Memorandum and those who supported it with their signature. Reductions in wages, redundancies, "slaughter" pensions, suicides, business closures, fleeing businesses, poverty, anger, frustration, degrading, level of life, hostility, downhill. The responsibilities of the process towards the memoranda are spread over the entire political system, which has chosen to shift the problems for the future. The future's here and they're calling us to pay the bill. What were the consequences of the first memorandum? It certainly opened the door to Europe for the ideas of the International Monetary Fund, thus creating a field of political controversy over the lives of the Greeks. Europe and the International Monetary Fund have been fighting for our own good since then, at the same time as they have equalised every concept of a social state. Europe and the International Monetary Fund agreed on this: "Greece does not have the money for social policy. He has debts to pay." But if the door of the International Monetary Fund were to be opened it was exactly what led to the second Memorandum. When the beginning's wrong, it's gonna be all the time. The second memorandum cost the mortgage on the future of Greek citizens. The democratic acquired, labour rights and economic successes of the Greeks were given to repay interest. And all this, after the justified indignation of the Greeks, led to the election of a government that sought to "negotiate for something instead of accepting it all inconsistently", as she said. It was the European Central Bank, whether it was the International Monetary Fund or the Commission, that was chosen by the voters of the current government. You want demagogy, you want with populism, their voters believed that there was an easy solution and that they preferred. They preferred the way they chose, but the way your policies led them to think, the policies that had been implemented by 2015. But this government, too, was "drinking its face". He failed. And so, with the third memorandum, we finally had to hand over our national sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have invited us here to decide whether we should investigate as Parliament the responsibilities that may exist for the fact that we have arrived here. We in the Central Association have already pointed out that the third memorandum was inappropriate and that the only reason why we were being imposed was the credibility deficit that created the first SYRIZA - ANEL in seven months. This lack of confidence in the Greek Government loaded Greece with more obligations, forced it to greater retreats, forced it to mortgage what the people call "silver". The third memorandum was imposed on Greece because the conversion of 'no' to 'yes' by Mr. Tsipras was not convincing for lenders. They believed that the Greeks were saying 'no' to the euro, 'no' to Europe. To convince them we were talking about other things, they asked for the signature of the entire political system and they took it. That's the truth. In the name of the Greek people, all political parties signed in August 2015 that Greece wishes to remain in Europe and the euro. We were asked, however, to prove that we meant that and that is where we were brought in the third memorandum. Then, as one can easily see, anyone who has sat and read what you have all signed, actually handed over part of national sovereignty. We have lost the right to legislate. We accepted terms of financial defiance. We have renounced many of our rights. We abandoned development policies. We abolished socially acquired decades in one night. The New Democracy then sat on the same table as SYRIZA and signed the same paper as Mr. Tsipras. With you was PASOK, the Independent Greeks and the River. Soon the Greek Parliament, for the sake of the place, signed. And I ask you. Only under the threat of the country's destruction, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the River, do you find any reason to sit at the same dialogue table?Is that, the country's promotion, the regeneration of the economy, the next day, is not a reason to sit back at the same table? Only if strangers threaten us can we coexist? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The memorials and commitments of Greece are the beginning of the famous "new post-multition". The memorials are the end of the postmulsion and the beginning of the new postmulsion. And I ask: so we have to start this new beginning by criminalising political life to draw conclusions about who is to blame? In my opinion, this is not the case with the Greek people. We may, however, be obliged to look at what has happened since we entered the euro. Perhaps Parliament should be able to restore historical truth and only once should it end up with what has happened. We cannot absolve anyone's mistakes if we take the way you are asking us today to take. On this road, however, we will not follow you. We don't plunder, we don't disorientate the people. Greece needs us all together. On the road you've chosen, you're on your own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Theocharis Theocharis, Vice-President of the Council, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. I ask in advance for your tolerance. The Independents have no priority speakers who have taken fifteen minutes instead of ten. Ladies and gentlemen, the last one and a half years are one of the rare moments in the history of the new Greek state that political hope has turned so quickly into fear, then subjection and ultimately resignation. Isn't "submission" a heavy word? No, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Balauras closed his speech with the Arab proverb on caravan and dogs. The Arab proverb that fits your negotiation is the one that says the camel back was broken by a straw. The camel is the Greeks. And the heartless camel he loaded both the castons and the straw are the lenders and the Germans. All you do is begging for humanity by relaxing the country. For two years Mr Tsipras has called for elections, because he would have been better negotiable and would have made a proposal to the partners, who could not have refused. Instead, the government ignored the dangers and prestiges, bringing the country a step backwards to the ground. Since the end of last year, however, the University of Harvard has already declared Mr. Tsipras as the worst negotiator of the year. There will soon be a doctorate for how a country can fire itself, "Greece 2015". But I am surprised that even now SYRIZA is approaching negotiations as a war. We just heard SYRIZA's representative. So, ladies and gentlemen, what should Ireland say? Ireland had a problem with only two banks with only 4% of Irish citizens' deposits. It was blackmailed by Europeans to charge a debt of EUR 85 billion to avoid the blow to French, German and British banks. This was a real war. The Government ignored the previous of the letters from the European Central Bank to the competent authorities of Ireland and Spain, where it was expressly stated that the banking system in countries outside the programme would be considered insolvent and therefore could not be financed by the Eurosystem. I'm tabling them for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are not entitled, ladies and gentlemen, to say that you did not know. And then, when the negotiation came to a dead end, the government organised a referendum - parody. Just yesterday the Prime Minister spoke of the need to anticipate in the Constitution for referendums on a number of critical issues. What do we do when you ignore them, do you enjoy them when you cheat on the people? In ancient Athens, there was the writing of illegals when they introduced laws that were unconstitutional. The Bible against the citizens who introduced them, that is, a lawsuit. Today, of course, one year later, the Prime Minister himself argued that the Prime Minister is different in practice than in the theory, that he is now more aware of the country's European correlations and potential than before, that he had a romantic approach as to how the European Union would calculate the political cost of deadlock in the negotiations with Greece. Romanticism, ladies and gentlemen, has a place in life, but not in politics, and especially in the governance of the country, is disastrous. Romantic delusions have led countries to national disasters. Of course, you didn't tell us although Plan B was also a delusion. When I denounced it from this step on 29-6 last year, you threatened me with an attorney. The truth, of course, was quickly revealed by showing that there were indeed circles within the government that were planning and thinking seriously about issuing a national currency, while at the same time other cycles introduced plans to mobilise the army for the maintenance of social peace - I would remind you of the statements made by Kammenos before Mr Tsipras. This is called institutional irresponsibility, called an institutional diversion, called weakness and inability to control his own government. But surely it's not called a delusion. And the result is that summer chaos increased uncertainty and turned the economy into recession. The 74.5 billion'red' loans became 110, the bank's equity value was depleted, as was the investment in the HFSF. The necessary recapitalisation was made with a huge discount on the stock exchanges, signalling the complete depreciation of the banking system. Let us hope that the success of the recapitalisation with 5.5 billion, while there were 25, this success story that now prevents the banks from resolving the issue of'red' loans, will not lead to a new recapitalisation. Finally, in 2015 we also saw the global originality of the Bank's capital increase more precisely than the stock market value. In such a case that other companies and entities of the Greek State, such as TAPILTAT, EYDAP, Athens Airport, etc., participated in such an opportunity. Then we wonder where the pensioners' money is going. Today the fraud is over, the 30 minutes of Attica are worth eight minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also answer what SYRIZA says about the elections. You are saying here that you yourself have been misled by the ESS and you have not understood what you were voting on and what would happen, that is, the massacre that took place in the summer. How cowardly is it to say that all of this was judged by putting the burden on those you deceived?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u136	What Member said he was misled?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u137	So, you wanted them, you knew you wanted to cut off the ESS. You knew very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u138	When you voted yes to the referendum, didn't you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, what will happen now? Is there going to be a dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u140	Don't worry, I know the truth is difficult.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u141	You 'yes' didn't vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u142	It's understandable that the truth is bothering you. It's okay, but you'll hear it. It is this function of Parliament to hear the truths.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u143	Don't do the sucker!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u144	Did you vote or did you not vote, Mr. Theochari?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u145	Gentlemen Balaura, quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u146	Did you vote for the abolition of the CSCE or not? You've been through the tests, all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u147	I'm hanging up. Ladies and gentlemen, bearing in mind that Mr Tsipras and his Government are personally responsible for the loss of the preventive credit line of 10 billion, bearing in mind that Mr Tsipras and his Government are personally responsible for the deadlock in the negotiations, bearing in mind that Mr Tsipras and his Government are personally responsible for the 86 billion costs incurred by the Greek society in the summer of 2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, what is wrong with you? With the speakers we disagree, we are not indignant.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u149	That is the respect and they want to change the Constitution, Mr President, for more democracy. That is respect for democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u150	Respect us to respect you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u151	In view of the fact that the result of the negotiation was the cut of the ESS, bearing in mind that the result of the negotiation was HNVIA, who changed with the tail in the legs forgetting the class mark, because you told us that by a class sign you had the HNVY, so now remove from the rich burdens, bearing in mind that the result of the negotiation was the robbery increases in contributions from 1-1-2017, bearing in mind that the result of the negotiation would be the scoring of labour rights, bearing in mind that the result of the negotiation is that the cut has already been activated, since to balance the budget, you do not finance the minimum guaranteed income, which is recurring for left governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Comrade, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u153	I shall conclude, Mr President. Bearing in mind that citizens have the right to know what was happening in their unawareness when you put their lives at risk, their property and the future of their children, Democratic Responsibility supports the proposal, although we do not hope it will be possible, given the majority of SYRIZA in it. But you are so scared that even the committee that you are afraid of it and do not vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Simeon Ballis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that the fact that we have just heard an appeal is based on an incorrect explanatory statement. We'll see it along the way. What I would like to say, starting with my speech, is that the New Democracy, with its proposal, is trying to appear consistently in earlier commitments, those that Mr Samaras had done by saying and committing that when he becomes Prime Minister, when he becomes a government, he will immediately proceed to an examination committee for joining the first memorandum from PASOK. After the government cooperative, she forgot about the commitment. But now the Civic Opposition, the New Democracy, comes to ask for an examination for the first seven months of the government in 2015, because in this seven-month period, in the first seven months of 2015, all the sufferings of both the country and the economy were gathered. Asks for answers and has been interested in seeking these answers to remember the environment created by its own officials, New Democracy, shortly before and several after the 2015 elections, that is, since everything showed that the New Democracy has collapsed, since Mr Samaras - then Prime Minister - did not sign the evaluation, so that the upcoming government of SYRIZA did not find money in the funds. Let's remember some. In early December 2014, shortly before the elections, Mr Stournaras, playing a key role in shaping this game of negative forecasts for our economy, warns of a possible lack of liquidity in banks. In this way, not only does it make a substantial political intervention in the face of the elections, but it actually gives the signal to start the 'bank run', to start the wave of banks leaving the deposits. On January 15, 2015, shortly before the elections, Mr.Adonis Georgiadis took the dogma, saying: "When SYRIZA comes out, I will get my money from the banks." I would remind you that at the beginning of February the European Central Bank withdrew the guarantee from Greek bonds, increasing the concern of depositors, prolonging the departure of the deposits. In the next few months, they provide and take the credit default scenarios, the rumours for “haircut” deposits, forecasts for exit from the euro and on 22 April 2015 another statement to “Parapolitika FM”: “After the act of legal content for the reserves, the Tsipras government will also take the deposits of the cosmaki”. The scene is now set. The strategy of credit suffocation and the approach to integrating a climate of uncertainty in the country are spreading out. They extend with the excellent cooperation of Officers, former government partners, bankers and representatives of European institutions. Remember quickly what had been ahead of us and the capital controls, from cutting funding to the Greek banks from the ELA mechanism, while our cash reserves were all available on the same day, from Draghi's statements on possible bankruptcy in Greece, which further exacerbates the "bank run", the Eurogroup's decision on 28 May to send a ultimatum to Greece on the closure of the rating and the recommendation of the Systemic Stability Board to the Government to impose bank holidays and control over the movement of bank funds. The government has now been tempered to the size of the extortionist pressures. It says and supports the opposition: "The negotiation you have made has added 86 billion euros to debt." Really? Three of the oil three in vinegar, recalculating them and adding them all together? Let's see what the truth is. Let's remind you. You heard. The total amount of our programme was 86 billion. Of these, 54 billion were, however, for refinancing the older debt and even at a lower interest rate. We made the old debt cheaper on his payback. That's a win for the economy. It was 25 billion to recapitalise the banks. 5.3 billion were used. The remaining unused do not constitute a debt, do not add it. All 7 billion left was and is for the payment of the government's dues. Another form of debt. Money, however, falls into the real economy. Exchanges of existing debt with GDP support, i.e. also on mathematical economic terms with a reduction in the debt ratio to GDP. It adds to what New Democracy supports and its concern at the reduction of banking, banking, etc. However, the truth is - in my opinion, and you are having trouble hiding it - that your interest is not in the future of the banking shops, more burning about the future of the bankers, those who have been helping you for years with the sea loans, those that your overlapping has allowed them to supply you with loan and anguish. Two hundred million has arrived for you, and so much has arrived for PASOK. What burns you is that you realize they're now putting rules into the game. The terms of transparency, equivalency, control and performance of responsibilities can be met. For the fate of other experts you are actually concerned about, not this proposal. And as much as you're trying, with rifles in the air, with void time proposals, you don't change reality. You have been left alone in a fight to defend the old and corrupt that you have built and maintained for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, since you have given me the honour to refer to me, my statement was made in September of '14, long before Mr Stournara's statement, so that we can go in a row. Now, because the same argument I have heard from many of SYRIZA colleagues, it is a great honour to think that I can have so much influence over the country's banking system. I would remind you that some 46 billion has been left since you were elected. This would mean that almost all of the depositors in the country considered my own contribution to be a test. You understand how much a price that would be for me, but obviously it's extremely false. With regard to the reference to Mr Stournaras, to see that you may actually have entered the right road and voted on all the memoranda you accused, but a mind you have not put, I will only say to you: Mr Stournaras in December of '14 said that any political turmoil will cause very great damage to the economy and Mr Stournaras now, after two years he also says the same thing, that there must be political stability and political normality, because this is his stable line as a central banker. It has nothing to do with which party it is in the government, it has to do with its firm viewpoint. When Mr Stournaras turns against SYRIZA - you think you - did whole performances here I remember the next day to blame the Governor of the Bank of Greece. Then, of course, when you are in power, you thank him for his positive contribution to overcoming the crisis. That's to understand the size of your hypocrisy. But let's go, ladies and gentlemen, let's take it from the start if we can get things together. What happened? We had two political groups, the SYRIZA - ANEL, who today govern, who lived in their own fantasy world. I remember Mr. Terrence Quick who was yelling for the loan sharks. He said they were destroying Greece and going with Panos Kammenos outside the German embassy when Chancellor Merkel visited Greece and shouted out to react to Chancellor's not coming to Greece. Mr. Quick, I'm glad you're here. Did you hear what Mr. Tsipras said the day before yesterday in his interview with Mr. Papachela? When Mr Papachelas asked when we are going to go out on the market, Mr. Tsipras replied: 'But why should we go out, Mr. Papachela, on the markets, since we are lending from the programme with 0.9, while the markets will lend us at least 5'. I mean, it's the loan sharks again. The bad loan sharks, which you ran to the German Embassy, now says your Prime Minister - whom you are also a State Secretary - are the good people who lend us at the lowest interest rate. This simple thing Mr Tsipras said in his interview with Mr Papachela, if you understood it a few years ago, we would have saved 100 billion. So let's go to today's proposal. There are two main reasons for this examination: the two main statements made by the top two institutions that we have to measure the economy in Europe. A statement by Mr Regling's first head of the European Stability Mechanism. What did Mr. Reggling say? That in the first half of 2015, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - he did not say in general since 1974, he did not say since 2004, he said in the first half of 2015, that is, in the six months that we are discussing today - we have suffered a loss of 100 billion. Question: You, SYRIZA Members as representatives of the Greek nation, do not need to investigate whether what Mr Regling says is true or false? Let me accept, Mr. Ministers, that you say that Mr. Reggling is lying. Yes, sir. What is the problem of coming to the committee of inquiry, presenting all your financial information and proving that Mr. Reggling is a charlatan, that he doesn't know what's going on and he badly loaded you 100 billion? But apart from Mr. Regling, is there also Mr. Yiannis Stournaras, the Governor of the Bank of Greece, who told us what? That the damage in the first half of 2015 exceeds 86 billion. Don't you, the SYRIZA Members, want these arguments from the top two institutions to come with your data and fight them, so that you don't let these slanders blame you in this way? I repeat: here is the argument about the damage they have done - it says - the previous parties. Both statements are reported nominally in the first half of 2015. And how does the damage come?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u158	Who signed the Memorandum?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u159	Listen, if you don't want and you don't like Mr. Stournaras, don't trade with him. But your ministers don't suddenly invite him to Hilton at night to solve the problems with the troika. Why, if Mr. Stournaras isn't good, why are you calling him to solve your problems in the negotiation? If he's good, why are you ignoring his statement? If you don't like Mr. Regling, Mr. Theonas, why are you going and begging him to give you his money? Don't beg him, since Mr. Reggling doesn't know what's going on with him, that your ministers don't have to beg these people who don't know what's going on with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u160	The fourth criterion for EMU, who signed it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u161	But here's how the damage comes out, so we can finish it. The fifth assessment of the government of Samaras has not been closed. Why didn't he shut down? Because among them the European institutions, namely the European Central Bank and the Commission and the International Monetary Fund, disagreed on the level of the budgetary gap for the three years 2015-2018. How much did the European institutions calculate the gap? They estimated it to be 23 billion. How much did the International Monetary Fund calculate the gap? He estimated it to be 26 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. How long did you finally need to get a loan six months later?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u162	What were you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u163	I'll finish without interruption, please. And if you'd like to ask me, I'd like to come and give you a tutorial. Now listen. While six months before their disagreement is whether we would need the three - year 23 or 26, six months later they said we needed 86. Take the big version: 26 minus 86, make us 60 billion. That's the one number.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u164	How much did you call it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u165	Put this side now: In November 2014 the Greek banks had successfully completed their recapitalisation and had successfully passed the stress test of the European Central Bank. A year after the Greek banking system, a new recapitalisation of 25 billion was needed. Accumulate 60 billion with 25 billion and you'll get the number of damage, calmly and nicely. But I repeat: let us assume that all these figures are wrong. But what better, since this is wrong, to come to the Committee of Inquiry and fight them. Let Mr Vernadakis bring the numbers and say that it is wrong what Stournaras says, wrong what Reggling says, wrong what all those who don't know and fight the great left government. But, indeed, you're afraid. Do you know why you're afraid, really? And that's what I'm closing down with. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you know what would happen if this examination took place. And you have no doubt, this examination will be carried out by the next House. You're just postponing unavoidable. When Mr Varoufakis comes and tells the committee of inquiry what he says on the channels, when Mr Galbraith comes and tells the committee of inquiry what he writes in his book, should we not invite Mr Tsipras to give us his opinion, who so far has been making the islands, in common, doing the duck? Obviously, we should call him. So because you do not want Mr. Tsipras to come and explain to the Greek people the damage that all European institutions charge the government, he goes and hides behind you. And you become accomplices to this act. We, as a New Democracy, voted in favour of all the proposals for a committee of inquiry. But you, the 'corruption proclamations', the 'experienced fighters of corruption', are behind the majority. The Greek people will come to the next elections, the majority will change in the House and this examination will take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Thanasis Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u168	Minister, I have the impression that no mention has been made of such a thing as to urge you to speak. Is it personal, or do you just want to give an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u169	I want to give an answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u170	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u171	Because he's learned a lot of tricks from his TV shows, I admit I know better about the tricks with such education that I have forty-five years on TV. I am therefore not going to join a dialogue, which will show it again to a media protagonist. I just want to tell you that in the conversation upstairs I didn't hear about the criminal PSI who collapsed confessors, universities, funds. We're talking about crimes. Of course I will not comment on the prosecutor's non-interference when there were MPs who said in January "you withdraw your money from the Greek banks". I refer to 2015. I have no other comment, Mr President. Thank you. Mr President, I would like to speak on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Georgiadis, don't start throwing the ball now. You're going to cause a new response.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u173	Just for a minute, Mr President. First of all, Mr. Quick, leave them for media and media. You tell me in every conversation to avoid the substance. Firstly, if you want to do a PSI test, why don't you do it? Behold, the field of glorious glory! Do for the PSI. Greater story than the PSI has harmed Greece doesn't exist. And do you know who has signed that the PSI has benefited Greece, Mr. Katrugale? You! Because the memorandum you signed on the front page, Mr. Quick, says how beneficial the PSI act in 2012 was for the Greek economy. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] And don't laugh, Mr. Karugale, because under this phrase, George Karugalos has signed. Unless you don't know where you're getting your signature. Under the phrase, Mr. Quick, how good the PSI has been signed by Panos Kammenos, the other "antimonetary" leader. And of course all SYRIZA Members have signed. So if you want, Mr. Quick, do a PSI test, do it. But here we're not talking about the PSI now, since you're hiding. This is what we are talking about. And I want you to answer me. You and Parliament and your emissions said "outside the loan sharks" and now Mr. Tsipras told us that these loan sharks lend us at the lowest interest rate in the world! Do you have anything to tell us about this, Mr. Quick, or will you continue to hide? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u175	Do not engage in dialogue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u176	This thing can't be done right now. What's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u177	It can't be done. I'm sorry. Mr. Paphie, you're absolutely right. Mr. Quick, if you're kind, don't answer at all. It's a shame that Mr. Pallis is waiting in Step. I'm ashamed of myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u178	Do I have the floor or not? This thing can't be done. Am I going to sit here? You'll find them later, anyway. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u179	If, Mr President, ignoring him is a mark on my chest, yes, thank you very much, that is what I will do.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u180	Very good. Well, Mr. Palphie, you have the floor and apologise for the suffering you have suffered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u181	No, it's fine. I will make a comment on both of them who have spoken and I do not say names. Only you forget something, Mr Georgiadis, and you and the others: all these billions that you go around, you and the government, pay them, the worker, the Greek people. So tell us: How much did the industrialists, shipowners and everyone in the crisis pay? And you and you, tell us how much they're paying now. Nothing. How many billions have been eaten from the insurance funds, blood and sweat of our fathers and our own? But the more you turn around, the more the fight grows. And to tell you about the debate now, one of the same is. It's a repetition, not to mention tapes. What do we got? We have a typical bipartite scene with role rotations. We have a two-party fight, aimed at disorientation of the people, clandestine confrontation on secondary issues - because there is confrontation and I will explain, our rapporteur Nikos Karathanasopoulos has explained - so that the real causes, which lead to a dead end to the people, who lead him to poverty, unemployment, misery and all that lives every day, are hidden. The austerity of this confrontation is trying to hide the common strategy of the parties, which concerns the capitalist development path, who will serve him better and, of course, the saints of the saints, which are Greece's position within the European Union, which ensures both economic and military, with NATO, and capitalist sovereignty. I repeat and refer to the older people who are listening to us in the past: the more PASOK and the New Democracy almost identified the strategy, the harder the fight became. We have lived the same controversy in previous years. I am addressing the Greek people and workers: we believe that the years from 2009 to today, although it is not much, it is seven, they give a huge, incomparable experience with the seven years, I would say that they give a half-century experience to draw some conclusions. For example, the conflict from 2009 onwards for the memos. What happened all the time? One put the problems on the other and the unavoidable was always the capitalist crisis, the system itself and the deadlocks, the bankruptcy of a system called capitalist, which leads the place to barbarism. The whole story there was playing, that the Memorandum is something special from the system, something different and that it is not the requirements of capital, and that, anyway, it may be possible with some rotation and another management to have a different policy. Was there ignorance? We do not believe that there was ignorance from New Democracy - I am speaking as a key polo for PASOK - who know very well and serve this system - their right - and also by SYRIZA. And I don't mean SYRIZA's world as a whole, but SYRIZA's leadership. And here's no financial brains. They didn't know the laws of capitalism? Didn't they know that she's a classic, carabinatist capitalist crisis in modern conditions, synchronized with all the traits that we've lived in previous years? They knew that very well. But what did they do? They offered the largest service they could have in the system. What were they projecting at that time? They made it - it's supposed - an easy solution. They loaded the problems of managers, of PASOK and of New Democracy - of course - and they are responsible - for the system and of the European Union and sent the world the utopia, which collapsed at an atomic bomb rate, to be able, when they enter the European Union, with the capitalist development path to bring a philosophical policy. Is that what he did? He led people to choose an easy solution, in his opinion. And that was a great and conscious deception of the people and, above all, it encouraged the radicalisation of the people. When people began to think that not only are the parties that govern, but they are the same system, because throughout the world they become the same, then they came and said to him: 'No, it's not that. We will come, without changing the system, within the European Union and bring about something different." And he also cultivated frustration. I am addressing this step, on behalf of the JRC, to the disillusioned world, to raise the head. There is another way, another solution to conflict with the system, to overthrow the system and not believe in the development tale and all that is currently served from here and there. So the result was judged by life. Here too, some - and I'm talking about SYRIZA too, about the New Democracy, I'll tell them later - to gather a little bit about what they're saying. He was judged by the act itself. Did you abolish the Memorandum? Oh, no. Are you implementing everything? Yeah. Did you bring a third memorandum? Yeah. Has Europe changed? Oh, no. So the fairy tale collapsed, the story you serve with the people. Then we went against it and paid it politically, and we knew it, but we told the truth. It's collapsed from reality itself. There's one more thing. Last time, in August, on August 14, everyone defending the capitalist system, all with hands and feet voted on the third memorandum. So why are you protesting? And from New Democracy and from PASOK and the rest of what did you vote for? Should Greece remain in the European Union? To remain to break the people, crush them and go out today like the cat who does the job and shouts over it, not to describe it as they say it in my village and understand. So, what does New Democracy say now, to see how history is being set up? He says: “Everything was destroyed in the seven months. We were ready to take off and suddenly the fuel fell and we landed again on earth." Really? So the government debt has risen to seven months? Wasn't he growing everywhere? And in other countries why is it growing in general? Nikos said it, Karathanasopoulos. The banking system, the problems he's been through, just spent it in the seven months? Didn't you make recapitalisations before? And I say again to you in SYRIZA and to you in the New Democracy: How have you made the recapitalizations? With a loan. Yes or no? Hey, Mr. Metarakis, you don't have a loan, do you? Who's gonna pay the loan? What's the bankers gonna pay? Industrials what will they pay? What will the shipowners pay? What will the oligarchy pay? What will the monopolies pay? Nothing! The worker who doesn't have to eat and who works from morning to night for 200, 300 and 400 euros. Didn't you do that? Who did it? Loyalty of statements! What are you shouting and protesting? Stop them. Can you? What does the European Union say? Freedom of movement for capital. SYRIZA has a responsibility in this area, too, but don't pretend to be the innocent, that everything happened in a semester. Didn't you follow the same policy? Didn't you follow the same strategic line? Do you not vote every day with you all the European Union's directives, implementing laws and fighting for the individual? SYRIZA, of course, loads it all in the New Democracy and PASOK, and even loads it when it moves in the same policy. This has resurrected the New Democracy and the PASOK and come out on the tiles, following the same strategic line. And as far as the New Democracy is concerned, I'll remind you what he said about SYRIZA, that he's going to have a soviet. Remember what he said? We said that SYRIZA's not going to do that, he's going to follow the same line that dictates capital. And I want to make two comments before I finish, give me two minutes. One thing is that it is courageous on the part of SYRIZA to invoke the proud negotiation, which resulted in the adoption of the two memorandums and the signature of a third and more barbaric and secondly, to invoke the referendum - mercy, that is! - the Greek people's proud "no" that ended up where? Well, don't you have a sense of reality? How does the world live today? Don't you have a sense of what measures you've taken since the third memorial? Are the measures philosophers, or have they pissed the world more? Is there any serious person here who can claim that the world's been going through better since September? And I hear some SYRIZA speakers and they remind me of the speakers of the New Democracy in 2014: "So much unemployment, so much one, so much the other." Aren't you in society? You don't live? Can't you see what's actually happening? Therefore, invoking the referendum and, indeed, Makis, Balaourras, saying that he must be taught in universities, of course, but as the leading fraud against the people. Pour 'no' and come out 'yes' on the other side. That's practically what happened. So what changed after the referendum? Is taxation stopped? Is the work jungle abolished? What happened? Did the pensions increase? Nothing! It's all worse than that. So we, and I'm ending here, will tell you what we said when SYRIZA tabled the proposal for a committee of inquiry on the memorandum. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government is coming, proposing a committee of inquiry on the memorandum since 2009. He's uploading them to all the other guys. In our opinion - I wish to disprove, but it is not so - it seeks an alibi that it has not only abolished it by a law and an article, but has signed an agreement on 20 February, which continues the Memorandum, is continuing the loan contract and is preparing for a new Memorandum, no matter what it says. He can say it differently. After all, we are at a time when a lot of baptism is made: Troika becomes a 'body', the memorandum can become 'new agreement' or 'development agreement'. We're not magicians. We're not maniacs. We talked about this before, when you tabled the proposal, a year and a half ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u182	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u183	I shall conclude, Mr President. At the same time, the theory of the burnt land and of all the rest is a claim by every government, which follows on from the previous government, to prepare the people that because they found burnt land and empty funds, they must lower their demands and not ask for much. This debate is just trying to prepare: the Greek people to sit on their eggs. We tell him to get out on the road, to organize, to build a large popular alliance, which will be directed at overthrowing this barbaric system, which has no healing. And those who promise they'll give him doctors are comoyannites and have nothing to do with reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u184	Thank you to the Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party, Mr Paphie. Mr Evangelos Venizelos has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u185	Thank you. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will remember the climate that existed in the House after SYRIZA's first election victory and the formation of the government in January 2015. Then, enthusiastic about SYRIZA and, on the other hand, the Independent Greeks had as their priority investigated the way the country joined the "extreme" memoranda and, of course, taking initiatives to address the "indivisible" debt, "deleted". Yesterday, Mr. Tsipras organised his party on the proposal to revise the constitution in the courtyard of the Parliament, following with one year the aesthetics of Mrs. Konstantopoulou, who had organized in the courtyard of the Parliament a great event against the shameful debt and for his deletion. But you see the memories haunt the space. Because then, when the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry on the first and second Memorandums, which operated a few weeks under the chairmanship of Mr Vitsa, I said from here that the Stepma is welcome and extremely useful, because we will be given the opportunity through it not only to investigate what happened from the accession of the country to EMU until the second Memorandum, but also how the country will enter the third Memorandum. That was obvious to us, but it had not been understood by a large number of SYRIZA government and parliamentary officials. However, I believe that the hard and closed leading core of Mr Tsipras' government, which has led things to an consciousness in the game with fire and ultimately to complete submission, was known. We now come to the third memorandum, the 'third memorandum of plus' and a memorandum after the Memorandum, the fourth, the inter-month memorandum, because the country has, of course, been placed under international and lasting financial control, in a way offensive and blind, which had never been accepted until the present government took responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, I have certainly followed the debate on the tragic, incalculable development effects of the seven-month period of 2015. Do not think that something has been forgotten and overcome as a result of the cynical transformation of the government, which has now become an ultra memorial and is being carried out for the full service of the partners' directives. I have also seen the timely, the most recent answer from the Ministry of Finance about how the damage caused should be calculated. What do they want, and those in charge of the Treasury are digging up? As the damage is calculated, it is truly huge and the damage is, unfortunately, for the national economy. Do you want to see the elements of the banking system, the depreciation of the shares, the depreciation of the previous recapitalisations, the nullification of the public portfolio, which had a market value that had been up to EUR 24 billion, when, according to the debt sustainability study, our expectation was to recover EUR 16 billion from the recapitalisation? Should we talk about the damage caused by the withdrawal of so many billions, about 45 billion, of deposits from the eve of the 2015 elections to this day? Should we talk about the impact of the bank holiday and the capital control? Do you want to speak in terms of purely macroeconomic? Is the question of whether the growth forecasts for 2015 and 2016 and the tragic fact that we were back in recession and primary deficits were over-estimated? What was affected, which is intact, but ultimately produces a very large negative economic result, is the climate, the collapse of confidence, in fact the removal of investors and not foreign major investors, but the discouragement of every Greek company to move within an environment that is hostile and unsafe. I have also seen analyses of the dynamics and burdens of public debt. But such a falsification of reality? The debt sustainability study, as drawn up by the International Monetary Fund, which the government once again loved, through Mr Liu, told us that 2059, which ends the debt, would be a nominal value and a percentage of GDP below 70% of GDP, and financial needs would not exceed the 15% of GDP threshold every year, would be closer to 8% of GDP. And after July 2015, the new data, which is included in the latest updated sustainability study, tell us that the debt dynamics for 2059 now are 250% of GDP and the financing needs exceed 60% of GDP, because small changes over a long period of time are operating multiplierly, with geometric progress. They're pouring the whole structure in the air. This is the largest damage and this is the most accurate estimate of the damage caused in the tragic seven months of 2015. The impact of symbolic, emblematic, but also financial with the excess, with the ultimate control of foreigners at the Financial Stability Fund, with absolute control over the entire Greek banking system, is an image that is depressing and which, of course, does not allow any optimistic prediction to be made, unfortunately. I have been talking a long time about the risk of stagnation. I am pleased that this concept has been adopted, because that is not a concept, but a danger from which we must escape. But how can we escape without a government that can politically run the country, society, the economy, stimulate the creative forces of the country, give prospects, inspire confidence? That is why the damage is economic, but also political. Political damage, institutional damage fuels economic and twallins. So, what do we do now? Can we compare where the country was in autumn 2014 to where it is today? When were we better? What does every ordinary Greek citizen, every man on the market and business, every worker? When do we get back to data in autumn 2014? In 2019, if so. Unfortunately, this does not exist now either. However, the major issue is the flirt with the destruction of the institutions. When a SYRIZA MEP, Mr. Chryssogonos, my student and colleague, said in March 2015 that Grexit with democracy and the rule of law cannot go hand in hand, few paid attention. It was a glimpse of honesty, because, of course, the scenarios were revealed not Galbraith and Varoufakis, but the scripts Tsipras. And what do the Tsipra scripts tell us? And I'm saying that, because today's article by the gentlemen. Varoufakis and Galbraith confirm the scenario and incriminate Mr. Tsipras in the "EFFECT OF THE CONSTITUTION". It is therefore very important to see how this flirt was developed with the destruction of institutions, with the limitation of constitutional freedoms, with the involvement of the army in maintaining order and with the suspension of application of the Constitution. The referendum began as a method of overthrowing the institutional acquis. And the fact that, fortunately, the referendum was overturned and not the civilisation is a great achievement for the country after all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want to tell you again and again that it is another government to have an alternative plan, plan B, of good evil for natural or man-made disasters, for external interventions that they do not want and want to prevent. Such plans always exist in all governments. And it is another thing to prepare, process and adopt a X plan, as your choice, knowing you and with the Prime Minister's command, not to have it as an alternative, but to have it as a political line, at the expense of the institutions and at the expense of the country's perspective. In other words, you must aim to marginalise the country, not even in the third world, but in the international margins of the fourth world. And the irony and the enthusiasm is that at the time we had the flirt with the destruction of the Constitution, the great slogan is "this is a coup", that this is where a coup is going to be a coup against the government that was working on the plan to destroy the institutions. While we should remember François Mitterrand, who said this is a 'Coup d'état permanent', that this is a lasting coup, which alters our understanding of the institutions, our sensitivity. It's a frustration. It is the ruthless poisoning of our understanding of the importance of the democratic institutions and institutions of the rule of law. So if this committee of inquiry, as requested by the New Democracy, accepts it by the Democratic Integration and by the Potami or by the Government, can we see the first, second and third? Let's see it all together, but let's see it. Let's see the truth. Because here the country walks on the bare foundations of great and repetitive lies that alter society's perceptive ability. And this does not lead to a positive solution to the crisis. The problem of institutions and democracy is, unfortunately, lasting. We see unprecedented situations in justice, conflicts, sues, disciplinary investigations, threats between senior judges and prosecutors. We see the collapse of the independent authorities, the passion of the government against the independent authorities, in order to safeguard the competence of the National Broadcasting Council and to intervene in the new communication landscape, which we see are those who claim a position and a role as opponents of interoperableness and guarantees of transparency. And after the defeat of the electoral system, the defeat of the so-called maniac - because Mr. Tsipras tried to transform his defeat, the assumption of his defeat, on an alleged initiative, saying 'I will change the electoral system, I will withdraw the course of things' - we have the game with the Constitution, Mr. Tsipras's initiative yesterday, which, as I have explained, cannot be government, because the government is not, according to the Constitution, a factor in the reform process, but a party initiative that plays with everything. This is an initiative that alters the core of the parliamentary system of government by playing with the President of the Republic, as it suddenly turns him into a party and a crusade through direct election. He plays with the core of the rule of law, which is the judicial review of the constitutionality of laws, effectively undermining the jurisdiction of the courts through a quasi-judiciary advisory body with the President of the Republic, subtracting the basic competence of justice as guarantor of the rule of law. So the core of the democratic parliamentary representative culture and the core of fundamental rights and the rule of law are being altered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u186	Complete your thoughts, Mr. Venizelo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u187	This is the proposal for Greece of 2021, to celebrate the two hundred years of national regenerativeism, namely to organize a memorial to the orderly state, sacrificed at the altar of Mr. Tsipras' efforts to organise his orderly retreat from power, falling softly. The game with the institutions is ruthless and is made for reasons of small- and medium-sized communications. This is a giant distraction. That's what's going to be investigated by a parliament. And we're not in vain. Personally, I don't vain. I do not believe that this will be the case in this House, but it will be the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Venizelo. Mr. Constantine Morfidis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if I understood correctly, neither Mr Theocharis, who spoke before, nor Mr Georgiadis, nor Mr Venizelos, were ministers in that country, but even if it were, have spent many years since then and no responsibility has been given to her. On the other hand, the whole responsibility has accumulated over the last sixteen months or mainly in the first seven months. Ladies and gentlemen, it is tragic that the Qualified Opposition to charge the government with failing its own policy. I am not referring to a failed policy for the period that has had the responsibility of governance in recent years, but also to failed political choices in the period from January 2015 to today. The results of the government policy of the New Democracy and PASOK are well known and the Greek people have condemned it in the last four elections. However, it is good to remind them constantly, because it seems that opposition seeks to repulse them, hoping that citizens will suffer a collective Alzheimer's. The Greek economy had almost zero growth in 2014, because the New Democracy and PASOK, with the agreements they had made, shrinked the economy by 25% by looting the public funds, reached the unemployment of 27.1% and broke every record into the market. They got a debt from 112.9% of GDP in 2008 and delivered it to 180.1% of GDP in 2014. The then Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and the Minister of Finance Gikas Hardouvelis had committed themselves that in 2014 they would complete the fifth assessment with all the austerity measures planned and cover with new austerity measures the budget gap of EUR 2 billion. However, they delayed the evaluation for seven months and never completed it. The purpose was obvious: With the country on the brink of collapse, the SYRIZA government that was coming to retreat and carry out the left-hand parentheses scenario. They would come back as saviors and in 2015 they would take new austerity measures to catch the new primary surplus target that was twice the previous one and insisting that the debt is sustainable, they would pursue a new loan. Mr Hardouvelis, of course, confessed that none of the above was coming out, too only by taking new burdensome measures. Since the New Democracy passed to the headquarters of Anti-Population, it has served in a desperate attempt to convince that all indicators are constantly deteriorating, and of course the negotiation of the SYRIZA led to capital controls and that it cost Greece EUR 86 billion. What if we have explained how these 86 billion euros are being analysed - which we have said 54 billion euros go to debt service, 7 billion euros go to pay the debts to private individuals created by previous governments - none of them count. They are insisting on reproducing in their knowledge a lie about this amount. Of course, the New Democracy is also trying to convince that we have led all things to chaos. Is that the reality? Today the situation is still difficult. However, the Greek economy has almost zero recession for 2015. Unemployment has fallen to 23.3% and is constantly falling. We are not happy with this, but we are trying to reduce as much as possible. They weren't making any progress with the padlocks. However, it is indicative that only in Athens in the first half of the year opened up seven hundred thirty-seven businesses more than those closed. Debt has not been zeroed, - how it was possible to do this - but for the first time in the years of the crisis it has been slightly reduced to 176.9% of the 180.1%. But it's down! In order to get to this point, the reversal of the situation you have created, has required a negotiation that was painful but, to the extent possible, successful. This is today's reality. You refusing to discuss the reasons that led to the defeat of the last elections, suggested setting up a committee of inquiry to investigate: Firstly, if Maximos was working alongside a plan to exit the euro, parallel currency, haircuts and invasions. The reality, as has evolved since then, disproves everything you say, because government policy is not being implemented on the basis of some of the considerations which have or have been put forward by some of the members of the government, but on the basis of the decisions of the Ministerial Council and of the Parliament. And these decisions are judged, not against publications and conspiracy theories or theories about the occupation of the Mint and the winter palaces. Secondly, you are asking for the supposedly huge measurable debt of the country and the economy resulting from these alleged manipulations to be investigated. You're talking about returning the country to the recession. We had growth in 2014? Why didn't we get it? You are talking about shrinking the trend towards declining unemployment. We're not talking about fantastic trends, but we're filing facts. You then record the problems that the memorials have accumulated in the country, but you only pay to the SYRIZA government. Before SYRIZA everything went right! Yes, there are these problems, which would be sharp if you continued to apply your policy and go all right. We are struggling for a step-by-step to mitigate them and neutralize them. We know it's hard. And with the hard stuff we get mixed up and we make it, and that scares you. All you can do is hunt your shadow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u190	Thank you Mr. Konstantinos Morfidis, MP of SYRIZA. Mr. John Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last four hours - about twelve hours at noon - and while they spent about thirty speakers, if I am not mistaken, no one referred to an unpleasant event which took place in northern France and specifically in the city of St. Etienne. Two Islamists held five hostages, the church priest, two nuns and two or three other believers. The result was within the church to decapitate the priest. Information speaks of another dead man. Finally, the jihadists have fallen dead from the police fire. A few minutes ago there was an announcement in the Turkish media by Sultan Erdogan. He threatened to flood, Minister, Greece with illegal immigrants. Take your measures! And we here are talking about who ate most and who is responsible for the most. And since you're killing each other, for us everything shows that you have absolutely nothing to separate. And I shall refer to the debate and the debate you have had, Mr Minister, earlier with Mr Georgiadis, concerning the PSIs. The micronomists who appealed to the European Court of Justice lost the case and the representatives of the Greek Government had exactly the same positions as your predecessors. Mr. Vorides is absolutely right, you are the same currency with a different look. We even heard a subtraction from Mr Georgiadis and he probably doesn't know how to count well. It has been said that if we take away from 86 to 26, we have a remainder of 66, so I imagine the government will take over by New Democracy and is Minister of Finance Mr Georgiadis. And I'll let him know...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u192	He said 60, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u193	He said from 86, if we remove 26, we have 66 remnants. He's got ten more toes on his feet to learn how to count. I shall refer to what the rapporteurs and the previous speakers have said. We have heard from Mr Stavoura talking about an invasion - something you mention in the document you have tabled on your proposal - in the Mint. Invasion from who and do what? Why don't we hear names in this room anyway? Who was it that would invade a state building, the National Mint and cut off a national currency? This, if nothing else, is a mere counterfeiting. We have heard Mr Balaura mentioning the New Democracy and saying 'You have exercised white terrorism'. Why didn't you come out and report everything you say to us the next day of the elections? Why did you not immediately inform the Greek people that the New Democracy did not close the evaluation because it intended to cause further problems to your Government and you are telling us now? Mr Balaura, have you repeatedly referred to the proud 'no' of 62% and what have you done with this proud 'no'? You have destroyed the dreams, hope and dignity of Greek citizens. Let you say this from the outset that the referendum, which you have done, is an advisory nature and not a binding one. All of you here in this Chamber finally stop mocking the Greek people. You should be ashamed of yourself. You also said, Mr Balaura, that the engine went ahead. What machine are you talking about? The one you all sold out of the constitutional arch? You've turned us around with the policies you've conducted all these years in the Paleolithic era. You probably haven't figured out the way yet. Mr Koutsoukos from PASOK has referred to a specific period of time, which should, he says, be closed with objectivity and honesty. Why, Mr. Kutsuko, are you limiting the time period as it suits you in PASOK? If you want to be objective and honest, as you say, you are extending this time period to which you refer more, for example, from the beginning of the so-called restoration of democracy, which you all celebrated on the day when you should honour the memory of the fallen and fighting in our witness Megagon, Cyprus. We, the Golden Dawn, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, will accept the setting up of a committee of inquiry provided, however, that it examines all three Memorandums that you signed - and let us not forget that the two of them you signed - all the recapitalisations of banks that have been made not only now, but also before, on your own governments. We are also calling for the auditing of all this debt to be carried out at last and for this debt to be paid back where they exist. I think you've got a lot of nerve. You have drafted a text proposing a committee of inquiry. Do you really know what this committee of inquiry reminds me of? It reminds me of another committee of inquiry that had once referred to a special court a party leader, Andreas Papandreou. And you remember her outcome? The result of the vote was 6-5. I think that the result of this vote by the judges was such that it would appear marginally to have been acquitted by the then accused Head of PASOK. Moral? Together you ate them then, together you eat them today. But let us return to your proposal for a committee of inquiry. Honestly reading the document I did not understand at the outset that the New Democracy is doing it. I look up - on the document and I read a 'new'. I thought perhaps the newspaper 'TAS' has sent a proposal to all Members. Then I thought maybe it's a newly established party or a movement. But, turning my page, all the questions were solved. First signature, Mitsotakis. I immediately thought that after signing this great leader, it could not be documented what the text says. A man who has been banished for six months for his political beliefs and his ideology in the miserable city of Paris, with molded cheese, with black caviar, with old wine! It can't be, I said. This man went through so much trouble and even economics, because the money sent by the evil fascist junta of the Colonels to exile politicians in Paris was little. Can't, I told myself, with such experiences, this leader knows very well what he's doing. Also, in the proposal you tabled, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the word 'negotiation' is mentioned. Today, today's cohabitation has this possibility to negotiate. Tomorrow or tomorrow, the case of the eight arrested Turkish soldiers is avenged. Look at you negotiating, Ministers. We will accept to issue these eight soldiers if Turkey delivers us the killers of Tasos Isaac, Solomos Solomos, Constantine Iliakis, Hector Yalopsos, Christodoulos Karathanassis and all those killed by the Mongols the Turks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u194	Mrs Fotini Vaki, SYRIZA Parliamentary, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal from the New Democracy to set up a committee of inquiry and what has been heard is a misguided omission and a political farce. The answers to the examination of the conditions are searched in your own circles rather than in fund-raising readings, but in numbers that are negligible and are not questionable. So let's go: Bank recapitalisation. First in 2013, costing 40 billion. Second in 2014, costing 9 billion. A total of about 50 billion. Secondly, outflows from the banking institutions. In 2009 the total deposits to Greek banks were 230 billion. By the day SYRIZA took over the country's rule, 100 billion left. Loans: In the past five Memorandum years you received 214 billion. What benefits did these have in Greek society? 40% of the population below the poverty line and one and a half million unemployed, including, of course, the debt to you until before was absolutely viable. And we're going to the best. Fifth evaluation. When you realized that it couldn't be completed, you chose to create financial suffocation conditions for the country, with the aim of what else to get SYRIZA trapped. For this reason, the true "BAMA FM", interview by Mr. Hardouvelis, who became known for the notorious mail: "Actually, the 2014 framework was quite strict. I wanted us to have a 4,5% surplus. We didn't want to bring it to the table. We wanted to bring it to 3%." "But would the lenders accept it?" Do journalists reasonably ask? Answer: "We could not put it on the table in '14, because we would lose credibility. We had to close the evaluation first. They would accept it, I believe.' That's an unspeakable argument. You agreed on them at the table at a surplus of 4.5%, i.e. 7.5 billion and after you signed, the lenders would accept 3%, because Mr Hardouvelis believed so. Monument of credibility your negotiations, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population. Not to mention the interview of the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, at the REAL NEWS, when he confessed that "the lenders did not want to give our government the disbursement of 7.5 billion and two months later to find this money in the hands of another government". Alas! We are signing the fifth evaluation to commit the country to tough measures, while leaving the funds of the country empty. Prayer, gar, the desire of the left government, which was not finally successful.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u196	Resent.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u197	I'm sorry. So the New Democracy in SYRIZA is looking for responsibilities today, because it has fought to overthrow this financial suffocation and at the same time, because we said "no" to the monstrous primary surpluses that you committed the country. Because we said 'no' to everything you promised, with a shocking willingness in the most grim aspects of the Memorandum Policy. Because we said 'no' to redundancies, collective redundancies, the dissolution of social security, the total abolition of all protection of first residence. However, the government has not only said 'no'. A bronze 'no', defying capital control and curfew from the media, said the Greek people, writing a modern surveillance and leaving a democracy deposit. Only the referendum, which was so obsolete, did not mean 'euro or drachma', was 'yes' or 'yes' in the package of measures of 25 June. We were left Europe and yours "Would Europe" was equivalent to a "yes" whistle in everything. 'Yes' to the Eurobarometer of austerity, 'yes' to the contempt of democratically elected governments, which have now ended up in an extortion and extreme right-wing and elimination of any memorandum trace in Europe. You were facing the referendum, the highest democratic right of a people, almost as a coup. For other coups, however, you were practicing the island. Let us remind you a few statements at the time of European officials: "I regret the Greeks for the government they have elected", Volfgang Shoeble. "It will be very good for Greece, Tsipras will lose his way out of the referendum, to open the way for talks with another government in Athens," Rahoi. "As far as the communists Tsipras and Varoufakis are concerned, the German Government will not accept a single cent of the euro, "FINANCIAL TIMES" by a senior German official. Valid form ‘FINANCIAL TIMES’. Who is afraid of democracy, colleagues? Plan X: The only world-famous Plan B or X, say it's as you wish, was a multipage coin, well kept in Brussels office drawers for the exit of Greece from the Eurozone by hand. We know. In public terms, and their leaders said, France and Italy reacted and prevented its implementation. Shouldn't you call them in for the exam, too? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude in a minute, your tolerance, Mr President. The last crucial question: How was the banking panic created, which led to the imposition of banking restrictions? Who was it from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u198	By who?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u199	Who were those people who said that if SYRIZA comes out, they'll make their money from the banks. I'm going to be sad for Mr. Georgiadis, but I'm going to say it for a naughty time. Yes, in 2014 on a TV panel, he said attributes that if the Samara government falls, he'll make his money abroad - say - so that SYRIZA doesn't eat it. Public statement by Mrs Bakoyannis on May 25, 2015, which announced the closure of the banks next Monday. Are these, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, included in your proposal for a committee of inquiry? Does your examination and the issue of the sea-surfaces of the Greek banks? The loans received by the parties? The channels or the other prominent businessmen from the banks?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u200	We voted for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u201	We do not see you taking a particular interest in the committee of inquiry which discusses these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u202	I've never missed you, Mrs. Vaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u203	Isn't there a connection? With the Panama papers? With your UBS and your honorable friends parade on the anonymous lists? Anything? I conclude, because a lot has been said about the Prime Minister's yesterday's announcement, I would like to say a word. Look, for you, the invitation to the re-establishment of democracy, on which it has led to a bankrupt, economic and awkward political system for many years, is equivalent to a fiasco. For you, direct democracy - we have heard this too - and the vision of popular sovereignty is equivalent to populism. It's your logic, we didn't claim it to you. We continue to fight both for the progress of institutions and for the involvement of citizens in politics and for the outburst of interactivity, for transparency and for democracy, and on this path we will continue to walk and make sure that we succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u204	Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. My guess is that if the funds were as empty as you said we left them to you, it would not be possible to cover the state's operating costs for a seven-month period until you have emptyd them. I'm just making a reasonable case. From there on, I will add this, of course, by addressing the Members of the government majority who do not want, it seems, to investigate all this: we have an opportunity today to look for the truth, not for the overall assessment of the course of the Greek economy in the last ten, twenty, thirty years where Greece has been destroyed and, in other words, a little ahead, but for a very specific period of time, in the first six months - seven months of 2015, which, anyway, resulted in developments that are not normal, because I do not remember in the past twenty, forty, forty years the banks were closed down in a weekend and of course later on to follow...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u206	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u207	Please, Mr. Comrade, listen. It's interesting. You'll get something. Of course, things have evolved as they have evolved with the enforcement of the third memorandum. So let us work together in the opportunities given to us by the parliamentary and constitutional process to find the truth in a very specific, specific and complex case with strange, if not dangerous, extensions for the country, even for the democratic city itself. You have neither fear nor hide anything, I suppose - none of us has - and the truth releases, even those who have no good relationship with her. So let's see: In the summer of the '15s, about these days last year, it was an ideal time for friends of the well-known lately Maoist sayings. The agreement on 20 February had been preceded by a few months ago and the start of the tough, uncompromising, but ultimately not so good for the negotiating country. I would remind you of the time-consuming, time-sensitive tactics, the absolute isolation of partners and lenders, the gradual suffocation of the economy, depreciation of banks, where a problem of liquidity has been converted into a problem of solvency and hence a much more difficult and wider problem, the acronyms on the edge of the cliff of ruthless bankruptcy, the retreats later, the compromises, the third memorandum and the account to the Greek people, a heavy account. The government negotiated the country's future with literally gaming terms: Bluff, change, burial and cool. I would remind you of some details, because it is good to remind you of them: on 30 June the extension of the country's funding programme, as agreed in the agreement of 20 February, expired. Without secured funding, the country would surely fail planned payments of its obligations and would therefore officially enter a payment and bankruptcy regime. Without any financial'umbrella', the European Central Bank could not maintain its 'injections' to the banking system in the country - which was already suffocating - from the known ELA, the emergency liquidity mechanism. The indications were that the negotiation was a ruptured course, that the Juncker package was under rejection, that the referendum was already on the ground, and that the deposits of a mass-proofed nature had already been removed. Inevitably, due to the situation, bank holidays were imposed on the one hand, restricting the movement of capital on the other hand, immediately thereafter. In the 30 years - I say again - when others were destroying the country, this thing, this has not arisen. All this was a fatal blow to the real economy that had already gone through a recession orbit. And, of course, this development has arisen - and I say this to justify all the things we are asking for to be investigated about the imposition of the restriction regime on the movement of capital - because these rules were and still apply to the ELA for all. Greece has chosen to consider that these rules do not apply, with the well-known arguments for political negotiation, etc. And he just suffered the consequences. Later the interviews came - what you had Yannis, what I've always had - as well as the revelations, as well as the scenarios for secret designs, for jumping to the void. The phrase I use, I borrow it from Professor Galbraith. It's not his fundraising book, I assume, as long as it's not the perfect reading of the non paper of Maximos reproducing with such consistency and similarity in your positions, gentlemen of the government majority. There was a rich terminology: "Declaration order against the threat prevention plan", "the tactical of rational disobedience", "the European Central Bank's G plan for the expulsion of the country", a plan of others. And, of course, the plan X of the little war team to manage the country's exit from the Eurozone. It's a plan that was meant never to be activated, since the bluff would work. Except the bluff didn't work and the rest came. It is an impact study or an impact assessment - it does not matter - a project the draft of which was on the Prime Minister's mandate, who was fully aware of it after he had requested it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'd like your tolerance. I just spent six minutes. I read from Professor Galbraith's point of view, who, as far as I know, had not taken advice on behalf of the governments of the New Democracy: 'Specific actions for exit would be required as the European Central Bank would abolish the ELA. First, a declaration of an emergency. Secondly, the immediate nationalisation of the Bank of Greece or alternatively the declaration of bankruptcy, the creation of a new body and the appointment of a commissioner as commander. Third, nationalisation of commercial banks and bank holidays.’ The plan. ‘Fourth, redefinition of all deposits and loans governed by Greek legislation in a new drachma.’. If possible, perverse inspiration almost. Again ND on Plan X. ‘Pempton, strong, appropriate and visible measures guaranteeing public order, security and elementary supplies and services’. Here, here's the relevance to the statement many found strange, the Minister of National Defence, that the Army guarantees the country's internal security. He didn't know about it at the time, but others worked for him. I read a little further, where Mr Galbraith specializes: "We have taken the problems of managing the emergency and public order in the process of transition very seriously." That is why the Defence and Home Affairs Ministers would be responsible. And I continue from where I stopped, at best: "Contact the Greek public, the world public and the tourist sector in order to reassure everyone that the turmoil would be controlled and temporary." It would go, in other words, the communication staff to tell the tourists that "Look, in an emergency it is the country, but don't worry, it's all right". It is a good thing that no one was inspired to say this to the Turkish President at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u208	Please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u209	These are issues which need to be investigated, ladies and gentlemen. It's not an emergency. I bet you don't know that either. You don't know them. Now you're getting to know them slowly. You don't want to know anything more. Let us seek the truth together. The Greek people have the right to know the truth. There was a great deal of damage in the country in the first seven months of 2015. Even the revised ENVY, which we are debating today, is one of the consequences of this damage.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u210	Good, Mr. Panayotopoulos. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u211	I'm closing, Mr. President. We're asking to know about these things. There are issues that need to be investigated. We call for the relevant parliamentary investigation procedures to be activated. We ask for the truth throughout it and throughout it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u212	We are on our way to George Papaphippou, SYRIZA Member for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, I am absolutely certain that in our country's parliamentary history the New Democracy's present proposal will be recorded as a monument to disinformation, complete distortion of truth and hypocrisy. For the sake of my above claim, it is necessary to remind colleagues in the Officerate of certain undeniable events which, despite the fact that they have taken place in the recent past, seem to have forgotten about them. But be sure that the Greek people did not forget them or will never forget them. More specifically, firstly, the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK in 2008 received a debt of 102.9% of GDP and handed to our Government a debt of 180.1% of GDP. Secondly, the same governments have launched unemployment from 12% to 27.1% during the same period, leading millions of our fellow citizens to unemployment and poverty. Third, as against lenders, the following primary surpluses were committed for the four years 2015-2018. For the year 2015, 3%, for the year 2016, 4.2%, for the year 2017, 4.5% and for the year 2018, 4.5% as well. Fourthly, they reduced wages and pensions to 30% to 45%. Fifthly - and most importantly - they did not complete the fifth evaluation they had to complete since June 2014, because they were aware that the austerity measures that were obliged to take and were literally unreasonable were objectively impossible to implement because of the economic impoverishment of our fellow citizens and the devastatement of the Greek economy. I should like to remind those of the diligent colleagues from Officerial Representation, as well as colleagues from the Association and the River, who said that they would vote in favour of its proposal, that in order to complete the fifth assessment, in addition to the above-mentioned surpluses, additional measures were required. First, coverage of the budget gap of EUR 2 billion due to failure to meet the agreed target for the primary surplus of 2014. Overlapping by 1.2%. Secondly, effectively abolishing supplementary pensions from 1-1-2015 with the acceptance of the zero deficit clause. Thirdly, the divestment of a large part of the real estate of the public in ostensibly and harmful to public conditions. Fourthly, the lack of any protection for the first residence. Adoption of the above measures by the New Democracy-PASOK coup d'état would mean taking, in 2015, additional financial measures amounting to EUR 10 billion to meet the objective of achieving a primary surplus of 3%. It should be noted that, according to the Programme, funding from the institutions by the year 2015 was foreseen and that it should then be ensured by the markets. But is there any serious economist on the planet who believes that this was a real objective? The answer, of course, is negative. Besides, there is the previous success story of 2014 that ended up in a vatrello, as you will remember. However, the inability to finance the Greek economy from the markets is certain that it would lead our country to bankruptcy, as well as to social and economic Armageddon. It appears from the above that the fifth assessment was impossible to complete, because the measures to be taken by the coexistence of the New Democracy - PASOK were impossible. This has recently been admitted in the most fascinating way by the then Minister, Mr Gika Hardouvelis. The new Republic - PASOK, and especially the Prime Minister of Antonis Samaras, is aware of its inability to complete the fifth assessment to ensure the financing of the Greek economy - because the dynamics of SYRIZA are not rescinded - in consultation with the most conservative circles in Europe designed the left-hand parentheses. The left-wing, and not only was it a communal trick, but it was a political plan, since you would move for 2015 the difficult budgetary measures agreed at the time. At the same time, it would create economic suffocation conditions for the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. We have just undertaken, together with the ANEL party, the governance of our country, a literally titanic negotiation to reach an agreement with our partners that would be free from the measures of austerity agreed by the previous New Democracy - PASOK, as we promised the Greek people and we received the relevant mandate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, two minutes please warmly. At this point it should be noted that both the troika and its internal allies, i.e. PASOK - New Democracy, systemic media and the domestic economic elite, were pushing and blackmailing our Government to accept the measures needed to complete the fifth assessment and that the coexistence of the New Democracy and PASOK had not been completed. Throughout the negotiation, in an unfavourable association of forces, our Government never thought of leaving the country from the European Union and never had drafted an exit plan from it, as the New Democracy and the two parties that support it are falsely claiming. Nor, of course, were they moving in the negotiations on the so-called plan, with the aim of leaving the country from the European Union. On the contrary, our country's exit plan had Mr. Siomple and his allies. However, given Mr Shoeble's pursuits, the government had to have - and certainly had - a plan to deal with the exceptional circumstances that would arise if this plan were to be launched. And the previous President of the New Democracy, Mr Meimarakis, admitted the need for this project.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u214	Please finish, Mr. Papaphippipou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u215	This, after all, is a rule not only for politics and governance, but also for large businesses and banks. Mr President, I will omit what I am saying about the rest of the allegations made by the Officerial Representation, and I shall conclude by saying that I and my other colleagues have said that there is no case for setting up the Committee of Inquiry called for by the New Democracy. The New Democracy, however, has submitted its proposal to disorientate and mislead the Greek people, because it has realised that following the successful completion of the first assessment and the successful and non-injurious recapitalisation of the Greek banks, combined with the ongoing institutional changes and areas, the successes in the areas of combating corruption, inter-government and tax evasion, as well as the achievement of an agreement on debt restructuring, political stability has been achieved and the recovery of the economy is on the door, the benefit from which it will be distributed in terms of social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr. Papaphilipou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being held from the bottom Western theories, thirteen members of the Committee on Budgets of the Japanese House of Representatives. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ioannis Maniatis, Member of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u217	We welcome the Japanese colleagues and I am sure they will experience a better political environment than what we have been experiencing in the country in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end with today's debate, the last card of figs is dropped, and the last card of figs, if you like, is the supposed moral advantage of the so-called left-wing government. Now look where we are. A government that said at some point became a 'coup d'état' at the Council, but after seventeen hours of very tough negotiation, the heroic Prime Minister managed and prevented it, a government which, in March 2015, started a committee of inquiry on how we arrived in the first and second memorandums, this same government majority refuses self-evidentness, and now go to the first memorandum how we arrived in the second memorandum of understanding of how we arrived in the third memorandum, in the inappropriate Memorandum of Tsipras, the worst, how we got there. This is the memorandum that puts the country in the biennial committee and the public property now operates in the fear and decision of the conquerors. And the government doesn't want to investigate it! I wonder, aren't there some things that might haunt the consciousness of SYRIZA's well-meaning colleagues? Won't you wonder if there's a historical answer to why Portuguese, Irish, Cypriots came out of the memorials and when they came out, we went into the third, deeper, worse? And it doesn't haunt you, too, another question, kind, with friends, relatives, political friends. In December 2014, were we better than now or worse? These, in theory, if you felt that you had a comparative advantage, you would be glad to accept it and you would accept not the proposal of the New Democracy that only says about the third, your memorandum, but the proposal of our own, the proposal of the Democratic Reconciliation we tabled in December 2015, which says, at last, let's look at it all. You know, Aristotle says something. 'All is larger than the individual'. Here we have a sub-examination for the Tsipra Memorandum. The Government of SYRIZA requested an examination of the two above. We call the Aristotle 'all', how the country entered EMU, how the 2004-2009 budget deflection took place, how we reached the first, second, third memorandum and, above all, to draw some conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, because we are sixty-five months in a memorandum, of which twenty, almost 25%, in a SYRIZA memorandum, I think that the Greek people are entitled to discuss two major ethical values, two major national priorities in the national Parliament. The first national priority is finally to explore, learn and reveal the truth of the numbers and the truth of political decisions, so that people no longer perpetuate the political system, not to extort politics. If society learns the truth, it will no longer feel like the society of defeat. To understand whether society was a fairy tale or was not a fairy tale that we are being borrowed by international loan sharks when the Prime Minister said that these international loan sharks lend us at the lowest interest rate ever, 0.9%, the fairy tale if we could unilaterally delete the debt. But together with the truth, we need something else. Learn from the mistakes of all of us, because we have all made mistakes, and gain a new national self-awareness. Understanding where we made mistakes, how we need to shape new conditions. To gain a new national confidence in a society and a political system that refaiths in a progressive homeland and in a society that can rise upright. These two, the historical truth and the acquisition of a new progressive, national self-confidence, should we not finally explore them? We voted and supported SYRIZA's proposal for the first and second Memorandums, and we will also vote for the New Democracy's proposal for the third Memorandum of Tsipras. And we say, come and check ourselves out, from 2000 until now. Is the deficit of 36 billion in 2009 not something you want to know? The country went bankrupt in 2009. What impact did the Zappeia and the Thessalonians have on the country's course? Not knowing how we arrived today in recession, while in December 2014 we had 0.7% growth? The 18.5 billion that we lost from the third recapitalisation of banks - money not banks, but money of the CFS, money of the Greek people, of the Greek public - is in the air. Your favorite IMF said in June 2015 that if the Tsipras negotiation had not taken place, then in 2060 the country's debt would have been below 60% of GDP, while after the Tsipras negotiation the debt would have been at 2060 to 250%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. And the last one. Do we not want to know the results of a major negotiation characterised by Harvard as the worst historic negotiation ever? Do we not want to know if Regling is right to say that we lost 100 billion or Stournara who talks about 86 billion? We don't want to know why they left 40 billion dollars in a semester? As I am sure we need to know, I have to state that unfortunately in the worst, most critical post-war period in our country, a government is ruling on fraudulent or political fraud or both. So because this cannot be tolerated, we invite you all to move as we have requested, so that we can all look the Greek people in the eye together. Let us look at it all from 2000 to 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr. Maniots. Mr. Nassos Athanasios from SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. The Red Ridge or - I'm sorry to correct - the Blue Ridge is a brave child. He decided to cross the European forest and save Granny Greece. She fills her basket with food and medicine, but on the road shells the bad wolf called SYRIZA. Two questions are being raised. Did she save Grandma? Secondly, should we not kill the wolf or even pass him through a committee of inquiry? You're asking if there's a country's exit plan from the euro. Well, where do you live? Do you read any serious newspapers? Didn't you get any news of Shoeble's push? On 17 July 2015, “SPIEGEL” uses eight journalists to describe a terrible day on the day that Siomple is trying to push Greece out of the euro. The description begins when the German Minister enters the elevator of Reichstag - it is creepy the description and has not been disproved - and contains a phrase. I repeat that "SPIEGEL" says that, not me. I translate with absolute accuracy. 'Now the German policy on Europe is revealed as a strange mix of indecisiveness and brutality. The brutality comes mainly from Siomple." Am I wrong to translate the word Brutality? Well, where do you live? Did your parents pay for it - I say it for some, not all, from the New Democracy, which I personally know - tuition fees to learn foreign languages? The province is nice, but provincialism is unacceptable. Didn't you see the cover of 'ECONOMIST' on August 11, 2012, calling on Angela Merkel to decide whether to leave the euro or - take care - the exit of Greece and other countries? You're talking about the referendum. But here some of the New Democracy committed a misery. I have the text of the voting papers of the two referendums, the Greek and the British. That's the British, and that's the Greek. It is a matter of simple knowledge of writing and reading. The UK states "Should the United Kingdom remain a member of the European Union or leave the European Union?". The Greek states "It must be accepted that the draft agreement that has been submitted to us and titled so." Almost immediately Mr Shoeble said that "you do not vote on what you are voting on, but on whether you will stay or leave the Eurozone". Sadness is that at least some of the New Democracy supported this view. You supported it because it had succeeded last time. How'd it work? Here, if this committee of inquiry were to take place, some would suffer, because they would have to respond to the FINANCIAL TIMES publication, which is also based on taped materials. What did he say? That by demanding Baroz, Samaras and Venizelos they had an agreement to kill Giorgos Papandreou's referendum, an agreement that would bring Samaras to the Prime Minister and Venizelos to the PASOK presidency. Do you think this post has been forgotten, that the recordings have been erased? Why don't some people sue? Speaking of the consequences of 'no', the then parliamentary representative of the New Democracy Kyriakos Mitsotakis displayed a note from Zimbabwe, this. But, Mr Mitsotakis, in your pocket today you have euros, not Zimbabwe's notes. Do you thank those who have managed it toward them with at least three strong Eurozone countries and you as gang associates - do not misunderstand me, translate Paul Krugman - austerity? You described the Tsipras Troika negotiations as a collision of a truck with a bottle. The bottle is here, we're in and we're on. And where did you learn lessons about such populism? Election by the Voice Vice President of New Democracy presented a picture, a screenshot, a large train, which is Europe, and a small train, which is Greece. The big train was dismantling the little one, of course. But neither did the voices of the Vice-President nor his current President-in-Office realise that it is not important for the big and small trains, but for the rails. The rails are Europe and any conflict that destroys the rails is criminal. Respect the New Democracy, gentlemen, don't consider a train. Of course we are talking about the New Democracy of Mr Mitsotakis, because there is also the one who used in this Chamber the term'social liberalism', the term used by Mr Kostis Stefanopoulos when he founded his own party. Otherwise, on July 11, 2015, Mr. Meimarakis said to Mr. Tsipras: "We want you to return with an agreement on Sunday. We're with you on this path, because we want the country to be saved. Greece unites us, Europe unites us, the euro unites us, the common course unites us." Today, Mr. Mitsotakis doesn't want any associations, he wants a breakup. Mr. Meymarakis was saying this while some were playing the game on the other side. He gave Nikos Hatzinikolau an interview. In the journalist's reminder that Plan B had Papademos government, when Symple was talking about Grexit at the time, Mr Meimarakis replied that the state authorities should have alternative plans. While the negotiations were culminating, you were protesting with a central slogan 'Being Europe'. Are you British? The ballot was talking about a certain deal. You weren't British, but naive or dangerous. The worst thing that left me stubborn is that on the New Democracy side, reference has been made to an article in the Criminal Code and to the imprisonment it provides. You write it in your proposal, that you are looking for preparatory actions, the execution authority. I mean, criminal stuff. One Mitsotakis asked for the criminal prosecution of Andreas Papandreou and Dimitris Tsovolas and another Mitsotakis is currently mentioned in the Criminal Code. Ask your father, Mr. Mitsotakis, where these habits lead. Are you turning us back to 1989? Is that possible? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u220	Mr Metarakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me an initial comment. I arrived a few hours ago from Chios, where we experienced a very great disaster, which was limited only for the sake of the superhuman efforts of the firefighting, the Army and the volunteers. Minister, the damage is very important, especially in mastic, which is a basic source of biopolitics for the south of Chios. It will take at least ten years to regain a decent income. Last day and all night we stayed in the mountains watching the outbreaks. Today we see more clearly the catastrophe that has occurred, and it is an urgent need to strengthen the inhabitants and producers and to design the regeneration of crops as quickly as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, after many delays, today the government brought to plenary the debate on the need for a committee of inquiry to find out what really happened in 2015. The previous colleague convinced me that such a committee needs to be set up. Because when he says there were many outside Greece who wanted to leave the country, which we had repeatedly said since 2012 and when we hear that there were people in Greece who believed in the same strategy, I am sure, Mr Colleague, that you too want to hear the truth, because already some people in this Chamber have talked about fraud and I think we need concrete answers. The New Democracy has supported similar efforts to set up committees of inquiry on minor issues with the question of today's debate and we have waited for the government to follow the same stance. We all have to pursue the truth. The Greek people, who made great sacrifices to get to 2014 where we were, to stand up then the Greek economy, need to know why we returned to the recession, because we took so many new measures, because there is today so much insecurity in every household. Three comments, ladies and gentlemen, on the SYRIZA rapporteur. Firstly, in his speech he displayed an unprecedented parliamentary arrogance, denying the right to ask what all of Greece is asking today: Why were our efforts broken down? Who in the dice played the European perspective of the country? Who is responsible for closing the banks? Who is responsible for the great loss of the shares that the Greek State had? Who is responsible for the suffocation conditions that we are experiencing today in the Greek economy and the multipliers? Who is responsible for the delinquency of the Greek banks? Who is responsible for the third and most burdensome memorandum? Ladies and gentlemen, you have achieved something unique in history, to lower the primary surplus targets, by multiplying the taxes you have imposed. Lower targets, more measures. This has never been done in the global economic theory! And to those of you who have said that you have managed to have very low targets now, I remind you that the primary surplus from 2018 has to return to 3.5%. The rapporteur also said that for the first time the Greek people voted in 2015 knowing the new programme. It's not true. On the one hand, in the September elections, you were again talking about the so-called parallel programme, which never came, but the "cutter" came, and on the other hand, I remind you that the 2012 elections had already signed the second programme of the Greek economy and the Samaras government was elected in support of the second programme of the Greek economy. Thirdly, you said - and other colleagues have said - that the committee of inquiry which already operates for parties and media will reveal the corruption of parties and SMEs. Interesting comment. We're still in the witness test phase. Did the majority have already reached a conclusion? If it has already come to a conclusion, at least we should know that, ladies and gentlemen, we should not spend so much time in committee. Recently, the estimates of the Governor of the Bank of Greece and the head of the European Stability Mechanism raised the cost of so-called heroic negotiation between 86 and 100 billion euros. This was because the government's cash was wiped out, therrears were increased. New financial measures have been added, the sustainability of the debt has been burdened. Capital restrictions were imposed on each household following outflows of EUR 45 billion. In the end, a new recapitalisation of the banks was needed. A strong potential wealth has been lost in the country. We were starting to have a course of investment, and I remind you of that in every speech. According to the JRC, in May 2014 Greece attracted EUR 37 billion in new investments in two years. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that after the evaluation we will take off, the investments will flow. Tell me new investments that this government has brought to the country. Do not tell me what you are completing from the previous government, for example. TAP, e.g. Greek, e.g. PPA, e.g. regional airports. Tell me new investments coming to this country. Eventually, the proud negotiation only actually succeeded is instead of the troika being called a troika called an institution and instead of being in Victory at the Ministry, which is the decent thing to do a serious democracy, the ministers were running at the hotels. Ladies and gentlemen, the people want to know why we have arrived here, and I want to believe that the SYRIZA Members too, since you have such a strong view that you will vote on this committee of inquiry. I would remind you of what all previous Vice-Presidents have said, that SYRIZA as the ruling party will have the majority in the committee of inquiry. Do you not want to know whether there was a plan B or a plan X or a drachma, and how, if you like, was there with plans that might have been abroad? Do you not want to know why pensions and subsidiarys are being reduced? Don't you want to know why the single, disabled and widow's pensions are cut? Why is the CSCE abolished? And above all, do you not want to know why this country was forced to surrender public control of economics? When this House is no longer to legislate on budgetary measures, but by a presiding decree, this is a great change for a democratic state. Don't you want to know why this happened? You don't want to know why we're selling all red and non-red loans to foreign funds without any exception, why the first home exception expires in two years? You don't want to know why the Greek banking system is being left behind, why did we hand over control? Ladies and gentlemen, recently in an abstraction of his speech the Prime Minister said that it is now difficult to monitor Mr Varoufakis. The issue, however, is not who's watching who inside SYRIZA or former SYRIZA. The point is that the Greek people can no longer watch you. Because, as Abraham Lincoln said, "you can make fun of many for a while, you can make fun of a few for a long time, but you can't make fun of everyone forever." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA now has the floor, Mr Christos Mandas, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, although we are not at this moment many in the Chamber and many in the House, I think we really deserve to take advantage of this opportunity offered by the proposal for a committee of inquiry for that time, before the seven months of the governance of SYRIZA, to make certain findings and to think about some things. First of all, I would like to say that we need to bear in mind the general context within which this debate is moving. And there's no doubt that we're living, I'd say, in troubled times, and that's what we all have to have in mind. I say this mainly because Europe does not seem, at least at the moment, to be oriented towards a direction of democracy, of social solidarity, in a direction that would make the world feel a little different. On the other hand, I think that the outbreak of Euroscepticism, as expressed in all the latest events, but also in what we have before us, is the famous referendum on refugees in Hungary, which is on the table, reminds us of the Austrian elections for the President of the Republic, which are before us, with the coexistence of a right-wing party in claiming the candidacy of the President of the Republic in Austria - all this creates a climate and an environment that we really ought to take into account and reflect on us in every case. I say this because I want to say a central political conclusion that one needs to have in mind and I must say, and in general the democratic progressive forces must have in mind, speaking of the governance of SYRIZA, the 'first time left'. Look, ladies and gentlemen, it was a crucial thing for our country and for Europe to be SYRIZA in governance. Think - and I want all of us to think about it together - how extreme right could get another possibility in our country too. And that danger has not stopped. From this point of view, I would say, by closing this general part, that the Police Vice-President's initiative is, I think, a greedy initiative and is evolving as such. This is an unscrupulous initiative, without a substantial objective and a little miserable, I would say. She's miserable because she's limited to this short time, trying to target. In fact, it refers to the first seven months of SYRIZA's governance, and it is not as great as it is, like the proposal of the Democratic Alliance or an older proposal from the New Democracy, which has been saying'since 1981' if I remember well, but I think I remember well. I personally am not a fan, so let me say it, of the committees of inquiry and of the judicial channels for investigating history in general. That's all. Because I have heard some, I would say, perhaps extreme things about the criminal track, which have been said by the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, I think we should be a little careful about them too. The New Democracy and the systemic forces of counterpopulation have a deep trauma and a critical loss of recent memory. The deep wound is the loss of power and the removal of left parentheses. It's one thing, which is impossible, as it all seems, to digest it. It's something that they're getting back on. Of course, they have a critical loss of remembrance, because they systematically forget that during this entire period there have been some election campaigns, there have been some elections. You can think that they never did, but that's where they did, and that's where they gave the results they gave. The aim of the New Democracy, by summing up, is finally to take an initiative. He's lost his initiative. The evaluation has been closed and he constantly thinks that this famous left-wing parentheses will be closed, but it is not possible, it is not closed. And he's always fighting and giving him a new target again and September. You're falling apart, escape, I know you're leaving, all this. This is what happens now that the revelations in the Committee of Inquiry are progressing steadily. I don't want to say anything more or to make early conclusions. But I want to say something, which I think should be clear to all sides. We, ladies and gentlemen, are proud of our full efforts since January 2015 and until now. And we are proud of all our efforts, because we know that we have done an honest, systematic, struggling, very difficult task, based on the people's mandate, and have not violated the people's mandate. That's what you forget. Genaris, we had a very specific order. We're out of it. We reached the referendum under suffocating conditions, having tabled this before - you forget that many times - on 22 June at Eurogroup our own proposal with the Prior Actions, what they had inside and austerity and they also had sides that we did not want. They turned her down. We have been subject to unbelievable blackmail for five months, a very barbaric memorandum with four evaluations. You forget it. And we've reached the referendum. We have reached a painful compromise and brought this painful compromise to the people. And we got his approval to move on. That's the reality. These are the facts. I would like to say two sides, which I think are central to the question and to the tabling of the New Democracy proposal, both concerning recapitalisation and the famous cost of the negotiation, and I will close with them. First of all, because the Vice-President of the New Democracy also said about the two institutional factors that we have to ask, meaning Mr Reglining and Mr Stournara, let us also ask two institutional factors in a previous period for what they say, Mr Samaras and Mr Hardouvelis, who have made clear statements. I don't want to repeat them. So let us see what was the crucial issue for the banking recapitalisation. What was the crucial issue? That, in all previous recapitalisations, the State provided an incentive to attract individuals to lose their right as a majority shareholder and to own their shares. He gave exclusive rights to bond repo transactions to the HFSF and thus retained their sovereignty over individuals who had a minority package to the banks. What has happened was that red loans, which have never been dealt with - never made a serious effort for red loans and which occurs within the Bank of Greece's report - were an explosive problem at the end of 2013, along with insecure restructuring, amounted to 40%. So the need for recapitalisation existed anyway and evolved. That's the reality. The other reality, which I think Mr Georgiadis forgot, when he added it, was that recapitalisation, despite any predictions, cost EUR 5 billion and cost something. Nothing less, nothing more. Now, let me say a word - and close with this - on the famous cost issue. I will only go - because the rest has been said - in the argument of sustainability, in this argument that Mr Venizelos referred to above, but also in others, where there has been a - I think - smuggling, which we must say. Look, it is a different thing to say that in the assessment of debt sustainability we are talking about a debt, which will become 250% in 2060 and not say that this is done on the assumption of primary surpluses of 4.5% forever and a different thing to say about the IMF forecast for 2016, which for the same time is 250% with 1.5% primary surpluses. What does that mean, practically? It means that if we went to the first version, it would mean at least a height of measures every year close to EUR 9 billion. The second scenario means, in practical terms, that we have in front of us what the government achieved on 24 May the debt restructuring process. That's the reality. That's the truth. So - to close - we are in front of a very miserable, I would say, a diversion of the New Democracy. There's no way. It was the most open negotiation in the history of this place. Therefore, in my opinion, both the historical history of the future and all of us, through our procedures, will learn the truth, which, ever, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be a real neutral one. I remind you of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Mada, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Mrs Catherine Marcos from the river has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear and clear from the outset. At the time we are discussing this issue today, it was clearly and hierarchically prepared, at least by part of the government at the time, but with the silent acceptance of the rest, the destruction of legality, the destruction of democratic institutions and the rule of law. Today's majority makes the unknown, or rather closes the eye to the voters, implying that it is not the current one, but the previous SYRIZA. In other words, we have the argument of the two of us in the same form. Ladies and gentlemen, we have another unprecedented originality. My current and foreign self. I'd say every other self, depending on what suits them. Why don't we forget, we also have SYRIZA's self last September, which was formed on the idea of voting, but we don't accept the measures, closing the eye on the voters, telling them, in fact, that any measures we vote on will not be implemented, because they are blackmailing us. I mean, crazy things. If SYRIZA was called otherwise, it would be called chameleon. I don't want to account for the facts. They're all known now. Only a poor man would not recognize Mr. Varoufakis, not only a molester of the country, an Arab-like salitibago, as he was described in February 2015, while many then admired his ruthless snails, the passionateness of his personality, his sick good health, his unwillingness. This ruthless man does not alone have the responsibility, of course. The Prime Minister, according to his dear method, appoints and monitors, laughing like nothing happens. And then, when the knot reaches the comb, it interferes, but the damage has been done. I'm leaving his intervention on the damage, too. His inappropriateness - I am sorry to say - reminds me of the similar inaccuracy of the years 2007 to 2009 and 2009 to May 2010, when two Prime Ministers were handed over, but also handed over a broken country, ready to sign what was said, in mercy, in the markets and creditors. I still believe, of course, that with whatever mistakes and their responsibilities, the European partners have saved the country. But this is a different debate. What concerns us today is that they have saved her from both organised paranoia and self-destruction. These come from Mr. Galbraith's words, not from our minds. If it's false, let's go out to the Prime Minister's head and say that all this is unconscious, and then we'll see what the prosecutors will answer, that is, yesterday's friends. Some in the government are whispering the argument that all this must be done to test the limits of creditors and get the best. But what do we do? Again we are sympathetic to the voters, saying that we at least tried, implying that others would take all this without protest. This is, of course, a completely incomplete view. And the latter understands today that the government is going through what they say, as long as it stays in the chair. But let's get back to the critical period for a while. I want to highlight the difference between plan B and plan X. It was not an emergency plan of the Government, that is, a plan B, but a reasoned draft of change of status. Everything's pleading for this. They're familiar. Don't repeat it. It just didn't come out. Nor is it of course important to deplete the country's resources for the payment of foreign debts. The contempt for the banking system was also remarkable. Everything was part of the propaganda that the people are on the one hand the thieves, the inner troika, the fans of "NEI" and creditors on the other. The convenience to use the division of the country to serve the paranoia and insanity of the "first time left" will remain in the history of a proverbial. Kuveda for the people's statements, for the people's jobs, for the people's incomes, for the people's insurance funds, for the public property of the people. Finally we arrived at the eve of political amoralism and gangsty, the so-called referendum. The last way of reducing and aggressive demand from the then government in a climate of declining and revolt, which in the end humiliated the country and its government. I do not need to list the sufferings this whole situation has caused. The argument is that ‘Nothing has happened. The measures we take to date would also have been taken by the Government of the Samara - Venizelos." That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. The new year's economic student knows that the slightest accident can take out a very significant amount of the country's income annually, send the economy back, destroy jobs, businesses, and will simply drown in a lack of liquidity. It's the example of the biker stopping for a while. He won't stand there and stand, but he'll fall. The country is now paying childish but also ruthless attitudes, practices and policies, and the government continues to grapple in the face of the voters by cynicizing its opportunistic pursuits. "Left as it suits us"! This is SYRIZA today. But not to underestimate the phenomenon. There is, as has been said, also the unsuccessful partner. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The most black and clienteles of the old client system have found refuge in this government. I am speaking not only of political officials, but also of individual, small and large interests, who are leading the show on the essential condition that the period that has destroyed the country is not touched and that SYRIZA is part of the old. In the end, however, no one and nothing has escaped the historical valuation, which he himself has little or nothing to do with his actions. SYRIZA has become a puppet now. I'm afraid the problem is anymore. After all that has happened and we are discussing today, I really hope that what will come next is not like Erdogan's reaction to the coup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mrs Marcus. Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President, and I warmly ask you for your tolerance in time, so that I can complete what I will begin to say in my position and because of the fact that the President of the Independent Greeks will not speak today because he is abroad. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, once again the New Democracy updates its love and preference to what we in the editorial we called the'stage ahead'. Today we are discussing a genuinely timely proposal for a committee of inquiry, which concerns the closure of banks last year, their recapitalisation, capital restrictions and the signing of the third memorandum. The need for these measures was dictated at this time as a result of a series of criminal actions in previous years. The third memorial was not selfish. It was after PASOK's first memorial, when money was there! It was following New Democracy's second memorandum, which would send to prison those who signed the first one. Let us therefore be serious, ladies and gentlemen, and let us address with details the summer fireworks of the Vice-Population Officer. And I start their presentation by briefly reversing and reviewing things. The period after 1974 was a long lending period for Greece, resulting in the rapid expansion of the debt. Between 1980 and 1993 the debt was ejected from 28.6% to 111.6% of Gross National Product. At the same time, the deficit was also high. With accounting practices, debt cuts began to appear and the deficit fell virtually until 1999 under 3%, eventually making Greece a member of the Economic Monetary Union. Oh, of course. It was later revealed that the relatively high performance presented at this time was due to the hidden deficits and loans, a practice called "creative accounting", which the Goldman Sachs also helped with. In the autumn of 2004, the then Minister of Finance, George Paloskoufis, proceeded to an economic census, under pressure from EUROSTAT. The census revealed secrets of the expenditure of the previous government, the Simitis government, with the result that the deficits of previous years have been revised upwards. This has led to a decrease in the country's credibility and to a three-year surveillance by the European Union. In the same year EUROSTAT continued to revise Greece's earlier deficits, which showed that Greece never met the Maastricht convergence criteria, since even in the critical year of 1999 it was still having a deficit of more than 3%. In the three years 2004-2007, on the basis of the Karamanlis government, debt as a percentage of GDP is increasing. Since the autumn of 2008, due to the global economic crisis that broke out at the time, the Greek economy has been derailing. Thus, the deficit and debt are beginning to grow at a rapid pace. In November 2010 EUROSTAT reviewed the Greek deficits in recent years. According to data, the 2009 debt is revised to 126.8% of the Gross National Product, corresponding to EUR 298 billion. In January 2009, the rating house ‘STANDARD AND POR'S’ undermined Greece's long-term credit rating by increasing the country's borrowing costs. The real annual budget deficit of 15% for 2009 meant that within a year, public debt increased from about 110% to over 125% as a percentage of Gross Domestic Product. Therefore, the annual deficit was simply added to the debt. The government then tried to hide these unpleasant data from the European Commission and international financial markets. However, this effort was in vain, since there were other indicators that clearly illustrated the extent of the problem. In the same year, 2009, the elections won the PASOK, with promises of wage increases to the limits of inflation, accompanied by the statement "Letters exist". In December 2009 Greece’s credit rating declined three times. On 3 May 2010 Greece requested EUR 80 billion from the remaining fifteen euro countries and 30 billion from the International Monetary Fund. On 8 May 2010, the loan contract was approved with representatives of the three lenders, the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, the ‘troika’, as it was called. They are therefore established in Greece and undertake to monitor the terms of the loan contract. The memorandum was adopted on 6 May with the support of PASOK, LAOS and Dora Bakoyannis, which was immediately deleted, ladies and gentlemen. Three tough austerity packages had to be taken to serve credit obligations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. However, Greece did not succeed in coming out on the markets and after a triumph of political events, on February 12, 2012 the House voted in favour of the second memorandum. In the government at that time, following an agreement by three parliamentary parties, the ruling party, PASOK, the Police Vice-Population Party, the New Democracy and the People's Orthodox Alarm, Prime Minister Lucas Papademos was appointed by the then President of the Republic, Charles Papoulia. In March 2012, the largest debt restructuring in the world took place, with the "haircut" of Greek bonds, but it also resulted in a global failure. With the PSI, a debt of EUR 120 billion was written off, but the framework of an agreement with the lenders provided for a new loan of EUR 130 billion. Of the new loans, 49 billion euros were committed to the recapitalisation of the Greek banks and at the time they suffered a great deal of damage to their capital adequacy, while the insurance funds, the public institutions, which happened to have invested in Greek bonds and, of course, the natural persons, who on one night lost their assets, lost their savings for many years. The central objective of the PSI was to control the Greek debt and to make it viable, i.e. manageable. It failed, however, since four years after the debate was again at the same level, namely the sustainability of the Greek debt, with the IMF claiming that without a new 'cut', there is no solution. The mistakes made at the PSI were two and intentionally in our view, as is evidenced by the fact. At first, the partners were given time for foreign banks to get rid of Greek bonds, which were loaded by Greek banks. In this process foreign institutions reduced losses to a minimum and the damage to the Greek banking system increased. The second mistake of the PSI was the exclusion from the ‘cut’ of the securities held by the European Central Bank and the central banks of the euro area of EUR 56 billion. The elections on 17 June 2012 highlighted the New Democracy first party, but without self-reliance. With the cooperation of PASOK and DIMAR, a government of cooperation was achieved, with Prime Minister Samaras. The Samara Government and the Troika have come up with a drafting of the medium-term fiscal strategy framework for the years 2013-2016. The plan was submitted to the House on November 5th, in an article of two hundred sixteen pages, under the urgency procedure. It provided for measures amounting to EUR 18,9 billion, of which 9,4 billion concerned the year 2013. For example, I will mention some of the toughest measures. Increase the retirement age limits by two years from 1-1-2013, reduction in pensions from 5% to 15% from 1000 euros and above, reductions in one-off, abolition of the universality of the national general collective labour agreement, abolition of gifts for Christmas and Easter, as well as permits for civil servants and pensioners. Finally - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - I would like to say this. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, if you consider, following the above detailed explanations over a period of time, that your proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, exclusively for the period of governance of SYRIZA - ANEL, contributes to the resolution of the political and parliamentary landscape, is likely to suffer from a targeted obsessed pursuit. This part of your political amoralism must be brought to light and put into the judgment of the reasonably thoughtful Greeks, recalling that SYRIZA in November 2012 had tabled a proposal for a committee of inquiry to identify the responsibilities and responsible ones that led the country in the form of an animal in the precursor bed of the global economic crisis. But you and your government partners of PASOK voted against this SYRIZA proposal in 2012. It is a disgrace, therefore, ladies and gentlemen. I say to you that we, the Independent Greeks, will vote in favour of your proposal, but with a slightly differentiation, the investigation into the performance of responsibilities will start in 2009, because you too are aware - regardless of whether your party monolithy will not allow you to accept it - that this is only the honest, true and moral political position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u228	Thank Mr Katsiki from the Independent Greeks. The last speaker is Mr Dimitrios Kavalellas from the Centron Association for six minutes. Mr. Cavadela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Are you, gentlemen, satisfied here where we arrived? Are you proud to have turned this Chamber into a arena of personal differences, avenues and anti-deceptions? And that's not for the first time now. Mr. Tsipras in his speech on incompatibility of shareholders of foreign and political companies set out a photographic provision for the Mitsotakis family. And now the continuity. Mr. Mitsotakis raises the issue of the third memorandum. But let Mr. Mitsotakis tell us why he cares only about the third memorandum. First Memorandum, isn't it? There's a second one, isn't there? The people will ask you sometime how we got here, gentlemen? Is that Mr. Tsipras alone? What was Mr. Tsipras, in the 1980s and 1990s, when we were making the big food, when we took the money from the bucket and instead of investment, we made it a jeep, we ate it at the casino and we also made appointments? We cannot participate in such processes and do the favour of the New Democracy. Because the issue, as it has been put, is not covered by data, it does not touch historical reality. Because Mr Mitsotakis does not have the same sensitivities as the lists known. It does not have the sensitivities for SIEMENS, which one of the complainants disappeared as they left as gentlemen abroad. In his office there were some devices and some forgotten invoices. If I forget to pay back something, they'll knock on the door every day. What happened there? How have those telephone centres and other equipment been forgotten in your office for so long, Mr. Mitsotakis? Who are you kidding? And one advice: The hanged man's house shouldn't be talking about rope, because he's hurting. And Mr. Tsukatos, who carried the millions in the bags, what happened to it? We forgot that. And justice has shown great patience. So let me not remember the submarine issues, the poorening of the funds. I remind you, gentlemen, that we belong to the Centre. We are dealing with the law, and we are fighting unfairness. We're nobody's pawn. And that's what I'm saying to those who had some dogs eat me. When it was necessary, we conflicted with Mr Pappas on the subject of the licensing of television stations. But we are not vengeful. We abused the TVs. We presented ourselves as philosophers, as non-existent. Only tail didn't say we had. But we don't publish ourselves. We want the instruments to be restructured and not closed down. SYRIZA's gentlemen from one channel went out and went in the other. The channels made them government when they were lying and pointing at everything inconsistently. It is now known as the 'both-catches'. But you're making a mistake now, because to those who have refused permission, they're going to the satellite. And from the satellite you cannot download them because they will have a foreign state's permission and they will say what they like, without you being able to put them in order. From your greed, then, to build your own intercom system, to control the media, you lose the game. To Mr Mitsotakis, I am now addressing you. You are calling on us, Mr Mitsotakis, in the eyes of reproach - because you know that this is impossible, because there is the possibility of the government, because of the votes, to oppose it - to vote in favour of your proposal. We tell you that we are not active in anyone, and neither do your followers, the New Democracy world. He's a thinking world, so he's slowly abandoning you and moving towards the center. This people know the truth. Did Mr. Tsipras collect a blooming economy with investments and healthy banks? Wasn't your inspiration the unjust evidence tax? Of course, Mr. Tsipras made too many mistakes and continues to make mistakes. But we must recognize him that his party at least has no thieves. Of course Mr Varoufakis' manipulations were dangerous and ridiculous. Definitely things got worse because of illusions and because of the existence of secret groups that were working out monstrous scenarios. There were some Chinese secret counsellors and some plans to make a "double" on the stock market. But the banks' accounts also began to empty much earlier because of the fear that New Democracy officials on haircuts, etc. were dispersed. So your question, Mr Mitsotakis, is a card. It does not include the memos one and two. He's ignoring your own mistakes. Let the examination be done, we have no objection. Let's see the old ones. Because the ending of Greece began with the transformation, with scandals, with appointments, with best friends, with the stock exchange, with the credit and unscrupulous "loans", parties, the media, etc. The big chow has ended, gentlemen, the money is over. You all have responsibilities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. If, Mr Mitsotakis, you had an increased sense of law, then you would also accept a simple analogue. We are, however, telling Mr Mitsotakis that time requires national cohesion. The sinner first put the stone in, and if he becomes probative, we should set 2000 as the beginning of the investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Cavadela. The parliamentary representative from Potami, Mr Mavrotas, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since we have heard many tales lately, let me start speaking in the classic way: once upon a time, then, there was an examination committee on the memorials, which no longer remembers, not even those who asked for it. On 31 March 2015, this Decision shall enter into force on the day The committee examined why we entered the memoranda, completed its work, attributed responsibilities, and the most important lessons were learned, which were used for the benefit of the Greek people. And they lived well and we lived better! But let's go now and actually. This committee has never completed its work, never has it submitted the findings referred to in Article 148. And of course no one lives better. This committee of inquiry has evaporated. It's too bad for the original passion to shine the truth. Why was he evaporated? Because since then another Memorandum, the third one, has been here. So don't overspread things, some people in the government camp would think. But we should come to the present. Let's see if what a committee of inquiry would do for the troubled period, which almost dropped the country into the cliff. It would benefit nothing if it were made by a rehabist attitude to hurt the government. We've seen this work many times in the past, "pays off" but nothing at all. It would therefore benefit only if the purpose were to illuminate the truth to learn lessons from the past so that the same mistakes will not be repeated in the future. So let us revert to the government's past. The first half of SYRIZA - ANEL governance was characterised by a communication but not real negotiation. As it turns out, there was a theoretical plan by Mr. Varoufakis based on the theory of games in the game theory, found by his inspiration to apply it in real conditions. "Yiannis go ahead", the Prime Minister would tell him and somehow Yiannis went for the break. That's not my word. He said it, as you will remember, on March 25 in Chania on Camera, when he was surrounded by the fans who told them to be with us after the break. The result you know. The Greek people attended the most expensive lesson "game theory" in history, paying tuition fees for a few billion euros. The question that has not yet cleared up in my mind is this: has Mr Varoufakis, Mr Tsipras or Mr Tsipras not known the intentions of Mr Varoufakis from the outset? I really don't know what these two are worse. Don't know what your subordinates do or sell them when the plan fails? Let's go to the famous negotiation. As we know in a negotiation, time is in favour of the strongest. If you play for example against Barcelona, you want the game to end in the first ten minutes, even if you have managed to get zero or if you lose one - zero that is an honorary score. If you're trying to get the game to ninety, you're doomed, unless you have the delusion that in your team you have five Messie and five Nemars. This delusion - which is the new word fashion - seems to have had the government. Potami already in spring 2015 warned: "Block the deal before we met with the back on the wall" and when in June 2015 Mr. Tsipras was ambiguous, because he feared that he would be emptied of his own party, as the party did, the Potami came out and said, "Let us support you in the House" to solve his hands. Otherwise, the most likely in the liquid scenery was the Prime Minister to give in to the "SYRIZA drachma". After all, he finally admitted what Potami said to him at the time, when in an interview on 29-7-2015 at the radio station "STO KOCKINO" he said, "It was our fault when after 20 February we were swept away in a negotiations of constant deterioration". So he came to our words, but accusing us at the same time in his loving habit. So we arrived in June 2015 and where we waited for the markets to dance in our tuuli, the markets were staring indifferently at our own dance of Zaloggos. The plan was beginning to sound bad and somewhere there in desperation came the inspiration for interrupting the talks and calling for the referendum, which translated meant: "Greek people, we have done salads. Help us unwind or, anyway, you take responsibility for failure." Lucky prosecuting? Immediately? A heroic exit? Maybe all this together. The results are well known. The referendum divided the Greek people at a time when the maximum unity was needed. Mr. Kammenos said the relentless standing next to the Prime Minister: "The Armed Forces guarantee stability in the interior of the country", a statement that made many to roam, but not the Prime Minister who was next to it. Banks closed down, which was well known in advance during Mr Varoufakis, as he said at a later interview with "SCAI". Then came the ‘capital controls’, etc., etc. 63% said "NOV" in the referendum, which was finally translated into "NOV to Giannis Varoufakis", which was removed on the same day. The Conference of Heads, the seventeen-hour negotiation and the third memorandum, which we voted in Parliament, was followed by holding the country in Europe when some of your comrades drew the carpet under the country's feet. But, gentlemen, because I hear 'and you voted for' many times, we need to make something clear once and for all. We have voted on the destination, the European perspective of the country. The route you chose to engrave on your own, despite our own resignations last August. So don't ask now for the change. The alibi you often call - densely: 'September in the elections we won again', to think about it again. Consider whether the people's vote is translated into "I'm not letting you escape as you did" or consider whether the people felt that you could best implement the memorandum you signed. After all, Europe seems to be in agreement with this. In conclusion, let me say a few words about the advisability of voting on the committee of inquiry. I am a member of the Committee of Inquiry into the loans of parties and the media, which we voted unanimously three to four months ago. This is a committee of inquiry with rich objects, which sheds light on the three-fold 'political system - banks - the media'. The Members of the Complex have often mentioned how useful and enlightening this committee of inquiry is. Yes, it is. I believe that they say this not with a re-institutional attitude towards parties and the media, but because previous pathogens will be identified so that they will not be repeated in the future. So love for truth and transparency cannot be a salt card. In addition, Prime Minister Tsipras, on 15 April last year, when the committee of inquiry was being discussed, said: "We are asking for the light of what the Greek people want to know." Indeed, people want transparency, they want truth and not a hut, to restore somehow the credibility of our political system. I am listening to the former Minister for Finance - which has now become an iconographic comic booklet, as far as I have seen - to blame the current government. He reads the books of former associates, such as Mr Galbraith, and he hears the former President of the House bailing against the Prime Minister. Don't you want to repudiate all this? Is Parliament's decision not to be unanimous once again on the facts? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like another minute. I would also like to make one parentheses. Because I heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative say in his interview today that the River was sold out in New Democracy, where did this conclusion come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u232	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Famelos said so. Did he say that because we haven't fallen victim to Mr. Tsipras' charm, like Mr. Leventis, who recently follows you down? So, for SYRIZA, whoever's not with him is sold? Good logic, constructive and progressive! Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the present committee of inquiry as a product of reunification, then we have lost. If we look at it as a process of evaluation of actions and policies, we have a lot to learn about the future, so as to avoid similar defeats, not defeats of SYRIZA, but defeats of the political system, which for seven years has been unable to get us out of the crisis. Let's see and do our self-criticism. What are we not doing well? Why are we the only ones who haven't left the memoirs? What did the Cypriots, the Portuguese, the Irish and the Cypriots do? I believe that rational powers exist in all European guidance parties, as well as backwards. To get out of the crisis, however, we need to compose our advantages and not to sum up our pathogens. So let us take a look at the liquid international environment and finally realize that we do not have the luxury of repeating the mistakes of the past. Because we believe that in order not to repeat the mistakes of the past all of us must emerge and be illuminated, we are therefore in favour of setting up the present committee of inquiry. We've become poorer, let's be at least wiser. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u234	We thank Mr Mavrotas, the Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami. Mr Thanasis Papachristopoulos, the Parliamentary Representative from the Independent Greeks, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start a little unorthodox. I will remind you again of the situation we are in right now. I want, however, before I say anything, to admit that the market is not at its best. A large part of Greek citizens are suffering now that we are talking. The subject of the ESS, like some other moves we made, was not the best. I think we need to correct them quickly. And I want to believe that, with a difference, we have been managing - heavy talk - a looting that has taken place in the country over the last forty years. How is it sometimes done, which many people are on the table and who pay for it, so we are managing this reality right now, and it makes sense to have political costs, because the citizen is right - we never put them with him - asking us for responsibility, because we are ruling. I would like to remind you here, however, because at the moment some people are talking about after three years, they will take a single piece of hair, we need to see why it will be rusted, because it will be cut. Some time-lag money's already on the market. Already 800 million was disbursed and will be disbursed every month up to 5.4 billion. The NSRF no longer goes where it was going to, on some 'logues'. He's going the way he should go. I think that too will help the economy sooner or later. Public investment also handles the right, for the first time, around 6.5 billion. Investments, too, which have been squeezing over recent years from bureaucracy, around 14 billion, have already been launched. The Prime Minister's trip to China marked a new one - some do not want to admit it, their right, that is democracy - era. The port is already a gateway to a strong economy, such as the economy of China - and not just that. Twice the Prime Minister saw the President of Russia, Putin. That means something. Most important of all, Obama accepted the Prime Minister for two hours. And Liu recently committed almost - incredible statement - that the debt will be settled, at least in the short term, before Obama leaves power. It's signs that something's changing in the Greek economy. For the first time since the 1,8 billion surplus last year, which was all at stake, but became 800 million - Mrs.Theanos Fotio is already dealing with them - and right for the most undignified Greeks, for those who live, not below the poverty line, who live in piles from the Church and the municipalities and from the trash cans. And not just that. I only apologise to those who lost the ESS and say that here we are, vigilantly, and soon they will also hear news, beyond the settlement of their EMSDDA, beyond any benefits of this kind, I believe that others will come. And I ask for an apology, I personally as a Member of the Independent Greeks, from these people. However, I would like to remind you of a few things to get together in this Chamber. For the first time - perhaps it doesn't like some, they're annoyed - the tax-farmers' lists are being searched. Should I be a little unpleasant and remind you who they were on these lists? In the Lagard list, for example, there was no name from any other party except two parties, PASOK and the New Democracy. I do not want to say names now, I said them when I did not have parliamentary immunity. I don't want to remind you of those names. And from this list and from the Boryans list -- which recently a man in New Democracy resigned, played a great role in UBS, which all American justice is looking for -- and there some tax-gatherers are looking for. And, above all, we saw known journalists, preachers of truth, supporters of both parties for years, figuring almost everything, like Prince Waterhouse, who had the names of everything over there. And every day these journalists, businesspeople who have newspapers and teach us truth, democracy and go out and say. We saw Mr Bernitsa, who is a special person, is the man who handled the issue of 'SIEMENS', the two million charged by the committee with reaching 160, good lawyer, very good for 'SIEMENS', who we have never received any other benefits, which we have not yet received from 'SIEMENS'. Mr Bernitsa, in a strange way, was following the then Prime Minister for investment abroad in the Arab countries. Oddly, by coincidence, he was the man, who was in the militarisation of a lawyer. Funnyly it was also the C4I, the very sinful C4I - we haven't even seen these - and he was also found having an offshore in Panama papers. Who else are they? I don't want to be mean right now. I'm telling you, honestly. On the list of Mrs Tsakalou, Mr Christoforakou's secretary, there is no name from any other party than the two parties, the PASOK and the New Democracy - I say it again - from any other party! This woman is being nurtured. Her life has been at risk several times. She's Mr. Christoferkos' secretary, who Mr. Sikashek had declared about a hundred four names. I would also like to remind you of the forty-four names - which we have never learned - of bribed Greek politicians with 2% of SIEMENS, this case that is being delayed, some people have been misunderstood, because we are glad to say that, like doctors - doctors who are on the newspaper of "Evangelism" taking 800 euros, are not bribed, some doctors are bribed, what to do? - So in justice there's a strange circuit. Is it bad to say that? I didn't understand that! I mean the following. We saw five bankers, so the country ruled. Laurentiadis took a bank. Some should be more modest in this Chamber. The way Laurentiadis took the bank, who is a convict, takes thirty years for the Greek citizen to find out. To let the Greek citizen know that that strange evening Giannis Tragakis managed, as the presidents now, to arrange the immunity of all the bankers, who gave without a guarantee of loans, who were leaving directly for abroad. And if there's one in this room, which disputes that over 300 or 400 billion has thus left on the lists, the various centers, the UBS, the Caymans and the offshore, to tell us. That's how they left. And they held two specific parties with a certain majority. Then he screamed Papadiou and Kammenos. They left the House. That's the end of this story. And how many others are over? Too many. We could talk by tomorrow. I don't want time. I just want to remind you and finish this. The Christophores regime, the Psygmy regime, the Geopoulos regime, the Martini regime and the Liacona regime have passed unreturned from this country. Some to make up their minds! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u236	Thank you Mr Thanasis Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. We are now entering the conferences of the Heads of State or Government. The first is Mr Leventis, President of the Centro Association. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u237	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. This morning - I will start my speech - I was in "SKAI" and I am approached by a journalist - not to say his name, not to expose faces and things - and he says: "I want to know what you took from Tsipras and you give him such help". I looked at him, I say, "What help did I offer? He ordered the bonus. It was a 50-year-old request from me, from the Centro Association and the Centro left all over. He was quoted and when I saw he wasn't joking, I voted for it. My debt was because I couldn't do something I believed for fifty years. Others who offered fifty seats to Mr. Mitsotakis must ask them what they took." He came back and looked at me. I say, I didn't give anything to Tsipra. I just saw a Tsipra, who said that he wants us to go to allied governments and I liked that very much - I don't hide it, it's my dream - and I said right away that I am very happy to vote on it. Others gave Mr. Mitsotakis the fifty seats, and they must in history tell him what they took, according to the journalist’s spirit. Maybe they didn't take anything. Maybe they made promises. In politics, there are suckers who are only making promises and then sold. Don't think they took. Maybe they did, I can't know. How long is it, a week has passed for voting on the simple analogue? I, as Vassilis Leventis, haven't slept many nights. I can't explain Phophy's attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u238	And you stayed awake about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u239	I'm not having a conversation. Then your Chief will speak. I didn't even hear what you said. Well, I can't explain it. I mean, in my sleep, I'm getting up and pulling, and I'm saying what that is now. Because I had hoped that with the vote of two parties, presented as a philosopher, the PASOK and the river, the simple analogue would pass, I had hoped. The common sense, which Mr Mitsotakis invoked, made me believe it. A number of theories on governance, on stable governments, have been started that we will remain unresolved, these well-known fairy tales, with which the country has been fed for fifty years. With a dreadful contribution, that's how this country is governed. However, I still haven't gotten over this. I'm telling you, honestly. The fact that the PASOK came and gave fifty seats to the New Democracy, I bring this heavy bear and the people will bear it. That will never be explained. I believe that it will be severely punished by society, because it was an opportunity to turn the page of the self-government governments and go to co-operation governments. Because the self-government governments have said that they had the rumours, had the illegality, the scandals, the effort to stay in power, and that is where the country went bankrupt. The country did not go bankrupt with co-operation governments. The country went bankrupt with self-powered governments. That's all we know. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] How will the gentlemen who have added the peer vote explain it? The core of the simple analog is the zero bonus. The rest, such as the vote of the homosexuals, the break-up of the regions, are secondary. The primary was the zero bonus. It was added, especially on the part of PASOK, and four - five others, and they said that the debate would start at the beginning, something that I call advances in sin. Let this end as long as it can end, because I will bring it down for a long time. Because, I do not believe that the opportunity to vote in a simple analogue way will be given again. These are serious issues that a Prime Minister is demanding to step on a foot. The fact that this Prime Minister was found and he stepped on his feet is something important. I have been disagreeing with the policy pursued for a year and a half, but I have seen a Prime Minister who has honoured what he has told me. Meanwhile, you know that many of you right-wing people called me and said: “You will see where he will sell you. He'll put thirty bonuses to get the vote on the others. It will find medium-term solutions and sell you, Mr Leventis." That's what they told me until the last day. Indeed, I sat down to listen to Tsipras at Papachela's interview, and when I found that he insisted on zero bonus, I realized that the Prime Minister is at least serious. Because if he were to start negotiations with the rest of us, then the only way would be to withdraw the bill. On the subject of the Revision of the Constitution, which Mr Tsipras did yesterday - I went, as he honoured me, after he called me, the other political leaders did not go and everyone has his responsibility, I am in favour of the dialogue and that is why I went - I have some comments. It's good for Mr. Tsipras to hear them from his office, which I believe is now. The issue of the election of the President of the Republic is that we should not harm it, neither by referendums nor by any means. If we want to help prevent elections from taking place, we'll put a hundred and sixty votes in the third ballot. Because if we resort to the people between the first two, the people may not approve anyone, and then the division is moved to the people to choose. The President must be commonly accepted. We must not vote on the people and we must call 'Dimas', 'Paulopoulos', half in favour of one, and half in favour of the other. It is a division, because whoever selected President must be acceptable to the whole of society. In the elections there is a party, it forms a government or two or three, but there is now a political choice of the people. While on the subject of the President, who must be commonly accepted, we are very much in the climate and divide the people, if we call on him. I therefore believe that if we really want to lessen the chances of compulsory recourse to the people, we should put the sixty-three to the third vote. Also, the Prime Minister said something would not come out of a technocratic Prime Minister. Why do we have taboo? I remember George Papandreou proposed a Petsalnic. Was Petsalnik any better? Could he raise the burden of the country? I therefore believe that we should not restrict who is the Prime Minister at all times, because we do not know the crisis. We don't know what the country will be like. We cannot, in other words, have the Prime Minister come out of the House. If the parliament at that time does not provide a man suitable for some reasons, or why are conditions such as this, will we Members put it, why is the Constitution? I'm sure Tsipras will understand that too. Some consultants told him. As far as the referendums are concerned, we must not resort to them too easily, because it is a division between them often. Outside are referendums in cities, municipalities for local issues. For national reasons throughout the territory there are very rare referendums. So I believe that referendums with a collection of five hundred thousand signatures are risky. It's not what we need to have a democracy. The Constitution - I have the opinion, I will tell Mr Tsipras, because we have a meeting in the near future - not to have much of it. The Constitution does not suffer from shortcomings that we need to cover. It suffers from the fact that we are hitting it, that we are not keeping it, either the executive or the legislative authority. That's where he's from. He doesn't suffer from the fact that he has terrible deficiencies and we have to correct it, you know that. Once, when I was young and engaged in politics, I had spoken to a dead man now, Constantine Chachos, who was chairman of the Constitutional Committee, appointed by Karamanlis. I told him something about Articles 21 and 24, which he included, which I had written with Cyprian Biris. I was back from abroad, and we wrote them. It was for the settlements and the environment. Tsatsos did not put some things in, and I say to him: "It's vague so that you didn't put it." He said to me: “The Constitution is wise, it is shaped. Here England has no constitution and has a constitutional culture guaranteed, that is, constitutional order. That's how he'd answered me. Maybe it was some kind of color, Chachos, but he was a serious man. Also, because Greece is becoming sceptical and the state is being used for voting purposes, we must put 3% of the Prime Minister to trial if the deficit exceeds 3%. In Germany, they put it for Chancellor. In Germany the Chancellor is referred to if the deficit goes to 3.5%. Why not put a cut here for the deficit? I hope Mr Tsakalotos also has no objection to this. Germany is an advanced country and when the deficit exceeds 3%, there is the right to prosecute the Prime Minister. Why did they put it? To be afraid, so he doesn't get over it, so we don't have what we had here. We are talking here about a committee of inquiry. This committee of inquiry would not be bad. Normally, the Centro Association should also vote for it, so that we can find out. What it's like to know isn't bad. But why do you only share it in the case of 2015? Make the proposal to start from 2004, to include Karamanlis' term of office, to include the term of office of George Papandreou and I believe that at that time Mr Tsipras would vote. He wouldn't mind. So, as you do, selectively the period, with a minority, what hopes do you have for adoption? Minimals. We're just doing this to have a conversation here. We're having a conversation to discuss. Instead of being at the cafes, we're here and we're talking about Mitsotakis' idea of getting tested. I do not know whether Mr Mitsotakis was really in the mood to look for the whole crisis, because the crisis may have erupted now, but the three hundred sixty thousand, appointed by Karamanlis with the STAGE programmes as apprentices, could have been a very important sum. May George Papandreou have lost valuable time. Let's check them out. Why don't you make a right move? Then you would certainly also have the vote of a party like the Centro Association. I'm being blamed for all the websites that I'm a SYRIZA crutch. Listen to something. Won't there be a future to prove who in this Chamber is a crutch? Is there not going to be another week and next week showing who's a winner? What's your hurry? I said that I entered the House, after thirty-five years of struggles, to make the Centro Association first young, then much older and then much older. I'm not hiding my ambition. So it wouldn't be smart of me to be a hen, as I am accused of. And, in his honor, Tsipras didn't ask me either. Honestly, as many times as I've met him, he never told me. I say this especially to you Members, because you may not believe it. He never said to me, "Mr. Leventis, do you want to go into the government?" Never! And yesterday, when his speech on the Constitutional Review ended, he said to me: "To what you have heard, please, if you want to send me your comments in writing". I answered him to leave me a few days. I claim a consensual role for the Centroon Association, to grow. And I'm going to make an observation, for Mr. Tsipras to hear it. Because if he is left alone in the proposal on simple analogy and continues to exacerbate or conflicts, then everyone will contend with him that the simple analogue did not make it because he believes in consensus, but because he wants to close the road to Mitsotakis. In his attitude, from now on, as long as he remains in the government, Mr Tsipras shows that he is changing conduct and is in favour of consensus. It must be more frequent for the political leaders to negotiate with them, to consult them. In the bills, before they were brought, he should not surprise us, avoid passing bills with a hundred and fifty - three votes. In other words, the Prime Minister's conduct must also be changed. Be a European Prime Minister. The New Democracy blames him for having had a plan to take the country to the drachma and for agreeing with Varoufakis. Another happened, and you need to know it. Varoufakis promised Mr. Tsipras that Merkel would endure. Varoufakis lured Mr. Tsipras to wait and said to him: "You will see in the end that they do not want to dismantle the Eurozone." "Finally, we're going to be given the chariots," Varoufakis said. That's where Tsipras got carried away, and we lost time. It's Tsipra's political responsibility. For God's sake, do not get to the point that Tsipras had consented to go to the Mint, to go to the drachma, and to such nonsense, which I believe is not believed by the - I believe serious, new Head of the New Democracy. I don't think it's possible. I call on both of us, both from Mr Mitsotakis and from Mr Tsipras, because we are entering a very critical period of time, to change their attitude, to come towards consensus. I, of course, am not hiding that the mere proportionalness of this House has not been voted on. I cannot forgive the attitude of Fofi and Mr Theodorakis. I will never forgive them, neither will history. Fortunately, the JRC finally voted for a simple analogue because it was only alas if it was in agreement with those who have made agreements with Mr Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. Leventis. The Deputy Minister of Finance, George Juliarakis, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u241	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today's debate in Parliament gives us the opportunity, I think, to understand better the origin of the third adjustment programme. And I'll be brief. My position is that the third adjustment programme, signed by the Left Government in August 2015, is the result of the weaknesses of planning and failure of the two previous programmes. Perhaps the only indicator that can safely predict the successful completion of a adjustment programme is the path of public debt borrowing rates. Usually borrowing interest rates - a market confidence indicator in the prospects of an economy - start gradually deviating from six to nine months before the completion of a programme. At the end of the programme, they are already in line with the sustainability of the public debt. Let us look at the example of the two other countries which have been on a programme, the example of Portugal and Ireland. Six months before the Portuguese programme was completed, loan rates there - and I refer to the ten-year interest rates of the Portuguese public debt, of the Portuguese bonds - the levels of interest rates, nominal interest rates were at 6%. Four months ago it was at 5.2%. Three months ago he was at 4.9% and two months ago at 4.4%. A significant de-escalation from a relatively high level until the completion of the programme and the exit from the commission in Portugal, where interest rates had now stabilised to 3.7%. Something similar happened in Ireland with interest rates that deviated from 4%, five and six months before completion, at 3.5% a month from the programme. Let's take a look at the Greek experience. Six months before the completion of the programme, in the summer, that is, 2014, remember, at the heart of the success story of the previous government, the interest rates were a little - very much where they were in the Portuguese six months before their own programme was completed, at 6%. In October 2014, while the Portuguese interest rates respectively had begun to deviate, four months before the Greek program was completed, at the end of February 2015, the Greek interest rates received the anosaurus: 7,3%. In November of the same year, remember, two months before the election, Greek interest rates were at 8.1%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u242	Because you were coming, Minister, they were coming up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u243	Portuguese interest rates four months before completion at 4.9%. In December 2014, before the elections were announced, Greek interest rates were already in 8.5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u244	January?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u245	My question in Civic Opposition is whether they planned in February 2015 without elections to buy at 8.5% interest rates.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u246	Because you were coming, Minister, they were coming up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u247	Secondly, in the case of Portugal, the exit from the programme was accompanied by the use of money to cover their own financial needs of the year following the exit, the end of the programme, of one year. In other words, people had, at the end, the Portuguese Government had one year's financial reserves to meet the needs of the next twelve months. In the case of Ireland, the completion of the programme was accompanied by stocks of EUR 20 billion. Ireland did not come out of the programme without having to end it at 20 billion. Do you know what the stock was in the case of Greece? Zero. Thirdly, Greece's financial needs after the completion of the second programme were a presumption of EUR 33 billion. Even if Greece dared to go out on the markets with the preventive support line, which gave EUR 10 billion, how would it cover the remaining 23 billion? With 8.2% loan? The story that the Greek economy would come out of the second program on the markets is unstable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u248	So he needed a third memorial?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u249	In February 2015, the previous government without elections would have to put the country in a third programme. And you know why? Because the second program was badly designed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u250	Is that what you said you wanted a good memorandum?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u251	Because the second programme was based, like the first one, on a forward aggressive fiscal policy with an annual burden of EUR 12 billion, while at the same time ignoring the structural basic pathogens of the Greek economy by making little reforms, about the weak financial institutions, with the small tax base, with the very small fiscal consciousness and collection, with structural weaknesses in the justice system, on the product markets that you have ignored - and I do not know why - and of course public administration. The only area to which you have burdened was the deregulation of labour markets, but without the result of competitiveness. The third programme, negotiated by the left-wing government, learnt significant lessons from the experience of the first and second programmes. It has therefore led the country to a much lower fiscal policy with significantly lower primary surpluses targets, significantly milder, with an average annual budgetary burden of not more than 12 billion, but just over 2 billion per year, from 2015 to the end of 2018, with not only a successful recapitalisation of the banks, but also at the same time a solution to the issue of non-performing loans, with emphasis here on the reforms of the markets in products and justice, where the dynamics of the Greek economy is hurt and, above all, with the restoration of the major wounds left behind by the five-year recession, as far as possible, with measures to address the humanitarian crisis of 2015 and 2016, with social solidarity incomes from 2017 onwards, by boosting expenditure in areas such as health and the fight of unemployment, but also by bringing to the table and the crucial debt issue. So all this is a programme different from the previous ones, with internal cohesion, sustainable, which has already brought the stabilisation of the Greek economy and is already opening up positive recovery prospects. Mr. Stavura, at your location you were particularly concerned with James Galbraith's book, an unpaid adviser to the former Minister of Finance. I will not go back to a subject that I have referred to in detail from the Step of Parliament, from plenary and from the committee. I think you were present at both of my speeches. I will not even comment on the comments Mr Galbraith himself makes about me, saying that I did not listen to the orders of the Baroufakis Ministry in the April-August negotiations and that I was part of an internal troika that sought to complete the programme. The story will be judged. What I would like to say is that the Greek Government's negotiation in April - August did not rely on devastating threats of exit from the euro. It was based on systematic, documented negotiation, the restoration of credibility step by step, the restoration of trust, the creation of alliances, the exploitation of opposition within the Eurozone. It worked, that is, just as Europe knows how to work, because Greece is a non-negotiable part of it. With this negotiation we have therefore managed to draw up a road between the disastrous experience of the two previous memorials on the one hand, but also to the privatization of exit from the euro, which some advocated, to stand up with dignity and perspective and to stand up and the left up, with dignity as a governing left. To conclude, I would like to ask myself whether a study of the crisis period really needs to be carried out from 2010 until today. The answer is, no doubt, yes. It needs to be reconstructed, it needs to heal the wounds to the social and collective identity and consciousness that the crisis left behind. And this must be done on time, and it must be done in the right way, away from the publicity lights, away from television shows, just as was done in Great Britain with the Chilcott report on how the country went to the Iraq war. And such an initiative would welcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much Mr. Juliarakis. The President of the KKE Parliamentary Group, Dimitris Koutsoubas, has the floor for 15 minutes, with flexibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, mockery and disorientation generally lasts well. Yesterday, the Prime Minister presented a supposed new post-population regime with a new constitution in a new Greece, mocking the Greek people out of hand. Workers, unemployed, farmers, professionals, people's families in this country cannot survive either by means of constitutional consultations or elections assemblies. These do not fill with food on the empty stomach, nor fill the pockets with euros, to pay HIS and other tax rags. And from autumn, of course, new measures are being prepared, as if we didn't get all this up until now. Today, the Chief of Officership in turn wants to play, and he in this game of disorientation, looking forward to a new two-party cohort from the old in the House, as if he would help to fill and relieve our people from the memorials, the anti-government laws that together with SYRIZA and other parties voted this time in this House. The people do not, however, get enough with either committees of inquiry or such debates within the House. Only by abolishing the laws, which you are all voting on for years now and today, can the road be opened even for recovering the enormous economic losses, the incomes of the people. Because the political problem faced by the country with the main responsibility of the civilian staff, who have so far ruled with either Prime Minister George Papandreou or with Prime Minister Papademos or Samaras or Tsipras now, is not solved by committees of inquiry. Politics must be the condemnation we say, since the decisions are also the political ones. The sounds - left by SYRIZA for the first six months of last year - not that it did not continue after that, but, anyway, since this is mainly the case today - they ended up in a referendum that proved "monkey" by their organizers and the very questions he put, just as the Communist Party of Greece had anticipated. In one night, the Greek people's truly proud "OTH" of the Greek people, as they felt it and as they expressed it, turned into a huge "NAH" in the memorial tombs, the quartet, that is to say the slaughter of our people. What the Greek people and youth feel are that once again they have been deceived. They saw their hopes disproved. They see that both today's rulings and yesterday's co-pilots are putting false dilemmas, blackmailing dilemmas, without really affecting all those who are to blame for the country's economic crisis, for unemployment and poverty. And these are no more than monopolies, big capital. We won't get tired of saying it. It's the capitalist road that you're following instantly, just with some change of faces to change Manolius and put on their clothes differently! It is the twilight alliance of the European Union, in which our country is involved and which is now being wasted for years all the time, without stopping, when with a right, when with a left-wing government mark. The Greek people must be more resolute than they had until yesterday, on the basis of their great experience, to broach no more mocking, no more waiting. This road points to the JRC. Gentlemen of the government last year, you chose to appeal to a referendum with the dilemmas of the ruling order, capital, with those questions that either answered "NAI" or "NOV" the Greek people would come out anyway, as they did. His slaughter is continuing to date. He's got big new losses on his income. You chose the referendum in order to get popular reactions, the ever-increasing indignation of the Greek people, which reached the essential, then, questioning the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, the government's choices, the memorials, their implementing laws and which began to strengthen those who voted for you and the wider in the popular forces. And they gave you a hand in this, of course, both the defenders of the reaction and the "NAI", but also your pals of "NOI" within SYRIZA and others outside the House, the so-called non-government Left, which at the end you sent them all undealed, you defrauded them, of course, after you used them to throw them away. The problem ultimately wasn't the dreams of Mr. Varoufakis and other fans of Plan X, who match the various plans of some of the capital in Greece, in Europe and in the United States and estimate that the change in currency favours their own profits. The real problem lies in your own policy, which, with a plan X and a plan A and a plan B, is anti-grassy, is at the opposite side of the integrated proposal presented by the JRC, linking the release from the chains of the European Union and all the wolves with the passage of wealth produced by our people, in social control, that is, in a society where power will actually have the power of the people, the working class. You have repeatedly made fun of, not only once, raw and provocatively, the people that you claim to be in favour of the agreement that you have proposed and negotiated, that you would ensure the best possible. In other words, as we speak, you have thus baptized the new reductions in wages, pensions, anti-grass commitments, increases in taxes unjustly, privatizations, the dismantling of social security, health, welfare, education, everything, the minimum remaining rights of the people. So you painted the capital control, the insecurity, the uncertainty about tomorrow. All the other parts, such as the re-payment of the ENPIA, the tax with which one pays rent and even for his own home, even in the years provided for in the solidarity levy that makes the worker show solidarity eventually for the industrial industry, because that ends in the final analysis. Privatisation, liberalisation of areas of strategic importance, such as ports, airports, with negative consequences for both workers in these sectors, but also for those who make use of these services by the people's families of our country. The increase in insurance contributions to workers and pensioners, what is it now? The government's red lines have become black for thousands of insured persons who have increased the retirement age limits, early retirement rights have been abolished, all further overturning insurance rights, integration of funds, new cuts have been made. Reductions in wages and pensions have been and are permanently on the table of this negotiating government - lenders, because the primary surplus targets, the commitments of the European Union and competitiveness are permanent. After all, wage reductions are on the agenda for all enterprises in the private sector today where individual, business, downward reductions and pensions are enraged. Yesterday I had a meeting with the Chemical Workers' Federation and the Fertilizer Association of Kavala. A fertilizer factory in Kavala is left. What is left is in Greece today. And what with your policy, which only favours co-operativeness, is about to put a definitive padlock or change character, because it suits your political friends. Trade unions are fired, compensation is not paid, in breach of laws, for workers being dragged into courts with irresponsible charges and foreclosed evidence. So where is this situation going? What can we ask you, if you're a little embarrassed, if you feel any regrets? But we know that your government only knows how to provoke the people, when it blows the candy of social justice, because your proposal and your own measures will have a redistributive character and are supposed to be socially fair. The reality, however, is that only the working class, the Greek people are constantly paying for the sad. The people must say, we say, a great 'no' in all this policy and yours and the previous ones. It must be doubled when he hears you talk to him about proud and cruel negotiation. We've been living this for eighteen months now, just like we've lived with the previous ones. All of you are negotiating hard, but, Mr. Tsipras, and at the private meeting that we had told you: "Better not to make any negotiation, leave it best on the automatic pilot of capital and institutions, because as many times as you have said you will negotiate hard, we have paid it very expensive." The Greek people, in other words, have paid it very much. It is precisely because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of anyone's ability, it is a question of choosing a strategic political proposal. Whether you're with the beast or you're with the people. Whether you're with the globe capital that for his profits, there's no crime that he's not willing to do, or you're with the people and his problems. Whether you are with the imperialist type alliances of the European Union, NATO and it does not alleviate, or you will be with the equal benefits of cooperation and alliance, the solidarity of the peoples. Everything that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has done, all that the governments of New Democracy - PASOK have done before, has led only to agreements - plundered for the people, in anti-grassroots measures, to an escalation of the anti-grass attack against employees, self-employed, professionals, farmers, bio-poplastics and others. The measures you are still taking, which are being proposed, and those of us and those of you, that is, they will be added to the hundreds of laws which remain in force, to the payment position imposed by the government on hospitals, universities, social services, local government and everywhere. You're all, after all, a big scam. That is why the main and main problem is not solved by examination. The people themselves must take the punishment of all of you, those who have ruled or handed out and handed out such governments, urban, capitalist, anti-grassroots - call them what everyone wants - and sooner or later the people will impose your punishment. Your political punishment for your choices must start from now through organising major fighters, with unity of the working class, with a social alliance of all the peoples, the wronged peoples of this country, in coordination and joint action with other peoples of Europe, the world, by turning your back politically, electorally, to join the JRC, in the only power of truth of the just, consistency, stability and real, if you want, not of the revolution announced yesterday by the Prime Minister that it is starting to do with the constitutional review of the House. Our vote today on the proposal by the New Democracy for a committee of inquiry is 'the present'. We are present in the complaint of all the things we have already mentioned in correspondence and agreement with other similar examinations of the past, which, of course, led nowhere but a repetition of mockery, to play a game of bipartisanism in the past, bipolarism today, which is one and the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Kutsuba. The Minister for Finance, Mr Euclidis Tsakalotos, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. After thanking the New Democracy MPs for the brief bibliography and bibliography of James Galbraith's book, I will not go on because I have not read the book, but I will say that you have moved my interest in reading it, so I will come back when I read it. So I'm going back to what I'd like to say anyway. The story of the memorials begins in 2010, when a decision is made to enter a stabilisation programme, without debt restructuring first, as the IMF usually does, and without devaluation or a loose monetary policy. You'll remember then that Trichee was still afraid of inflation. That's the original problem. That explains that we lost 25% of our income, that we entered the debt trap that the PSI could not overturn, that's what explains the vicious circle of measures, recession, other measures. Why did this mistake happen, why did we go there? One explanation is that the negotiators at that time did not know the strength they had, in relation to the fact that the banks of our creditors had too many Greek bonds and, therefore, had much more negotiating power than they thought. Another explanation was that economists at that time really thought we would have a small stabilizing program one to two years and then go back to the old. A third was that many people at that time were saying 'to make the changes that we always wanted'. They said that these measures had to be done without a memorandum and, therefore, they wanted wage cuts, they wanted pension cuts, they wanted to reduce the social state and, of course, they did not want to hurt the fight against tax evasion and corruption. But we also had political consequences for this first decision. The political consequences were the convergence of the Central Left and the Central Right, which we saw later with the Papademos government, with the Samara Government, and which was found in the last vote on the simple proportionality. From now on in the next elections - Mr Mavrotakis is right, no one has said that you were sold on the right - all the central voters will have the blackmail to vote in Tsipras or Mitsotakis and for the first time it will not be blackmail from us. You are the one who said 'we want to blackmail, because we do not want the simple analogue. And you did - to answer Mr Leventis - why you want to be with New Democracy. And there is no future for social democracy unless you escape from Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Venizelos. Listen to this from me. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So there was something else. There was also the left parentheses that the last payment we had was August 2014, that the tiles came in September and never had a solution to close the fifth evaluation. This in Hebrew is called chutzpah. It's the nerve, but it's much nicer than the English word and the Greek word. Mr Chutzpah, you say in your request, because we did not close the programme, the fifth evaluation, when you had seven months and did not do so. Why didn't you? Because you thought it would be a left parentheses. And you thought that if you were left-wing you would be able to return, and that is why it is clear that you did not give us the extension of the programme for six months, which you had the opportunity and only gave us the opportunity for two, so our negotiation and our governance have been sedated since the first time in the announcements. What were we doing in the negotiation? For the first time you say why we did not learn from the rules of negotiation, I must tell you that there is no post somewhere in the Commission or the IMF on how you negotiate and we certainly couldn't learn from you. That's for sure. You did not teach us how to negotiate and that is why the Greek people ordered us neither a limit-free conflict nor a continuation as it was before. It has given us a clear directive, a conflict as we could and a consensus where we could. That is why conflict was not just our choice, because Europeans have sought to have a conflict twice. The first was with the February agreement, where nowhere in this agreement talks about the fifth assessment, but it says that we will take measures and changes and reforms from the old and the new ones. Immediately after the Heads of Institutions, they have established this agreement and said, of course, we mean that the fifth assessment must be closed and you agree with it, because you say and ask us - that is your request - why you did not complete the agreement on the programme that was in existence. So you agree with the head of institutions that it should be closed. That's how much support we had! The second is with the famous Juncker plan, the Juncker plan that was for four months, which had no compromise, little for the primary surpluses. It was the initial position of the institutions, while we had tabled in a spirit of compromise, forty-seven pages that were not our ideas but were trying to record the common place, and you said that this was what we should say 'yes'. That's what you said. I hear the C.E.S.D.'s not supposed to go away. You voted in favour of the CSCE leaving, not in elections, not in the agreement, but when the referendum took place. The asymmetry between our opposition and your opposition I think is clear, because when we made our opposition, we wanted to strengthen your hand to bring as best an agreement as you can, while you vote, sign what you want. [[Noise - laughers from the wing of the New Republic]] Didn't you say, Mr. Teddy? Didn't you think we'd sign? You said that night, didn't you? Did you forget? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Of course, you said that in the referendum, you said it after the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u256	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u257	Now you've become memorable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u258	Now put taxes on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u259	Please, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u260	But I would like to tell you, when Mrs Vultesis allows me, that...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u261	Be quiet, please. Minister, please don't speak by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u262	I have not mentioned that, Mr President. But I'll stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u263	You said before, Mr Tindemans, that is what I am saying. Please, no no no
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u264	Do your job. You're a minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u265	Mrs. Vulture, please! Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u266	I shall now make a nominal positive report, Mr President. When you've become an antimony now, and you're not voting for this...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u267	Do your job!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u268	Mrs. Vulture, what are you doing exactly? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u269	Hey, what's he gonna do all the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u270	Who have I sworn to, Mrs. Swollen?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u271	You keep saying, 'You', 'you'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u272	The "you" is not a filthy thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u273	The memos you signed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u274	Please, Mrs. Vulture. It's afternoon. Mr. Chakaloto, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, I went to say something good for Mr Vorides, but I am not left by Mrs Vulture. I'm trying to say something good, because I had made a promise to Mr. Voridis that after the elections, which became anti-monstrous, I will go hand in hand with Mr. Vorides in Europe and say to all Europeans: 'Do not worry about the anti-immemorandum change of the New Democracy. It's not based on anything. It is only a political plan to come out and know that they will be neoliberal and yours when the elections are held afterwards."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u276	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u277	Now let's go to Plan B, Plan G...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u278	Please don't address the floor. Mr. Chakaloto, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u279	We now go to Plan B, to Plan G. The truth is: every government must show - and we have - special care to have plans for a number of possibilities, such as at risk of the euro anyway, etc. I remind you that in 2012, everyone was afraid of the euro until Draghy said the famous, "I'll do whatever it takes." This period never ended and still continues with Brexit. It would therefore be irresponsible for any government not to face the general possibility of such a crisis. Of course there were various plans, such as what will happen if we are pressed in liquidity, what will happen if we are pressed in another way. But in nothing you have shown that this creates a B plan. Let alone there was no plan B. In nothing you have given not only a given given that this project B once was Plan A. There is neither one proof nor one argument for that. You're just saying, if it were there, it could be plan A. I think you can't convince your own. Now we're going to the cost of the negotiation. I understand that there is a general idea here that it was between EUR 86 billion and EUR 100 billion the cost. In other words, if you had the happiness of you and even more of the Greek people, you would have won the elections in January 2015, in January 2016, instead of the debt of EUR 300 billion and something, it would have been EUR 200 billion and something, since we put you EUR 100 billion and the EUR 100 billion would have been less. I must tell you that I am more prepared to believe that Mr. Mitsotakis is a political prisoner than to believe that. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Now we're going to cost, actually. With regard to these costs, your economists know - they know that and that makes me sad - that much of the new loan is recycling of the old. They also know that this recycling, because it is on better terms and at interest rates and in maturation, is essentially a debt restructuring. They also know that the EUR 5 billion for banks - not the EUR 20 billion for banks - is because when you were recapitalisationing, you did not do it the right way. What does all the international literature say about how you have to do the recapitalisation? He says first, you have to make it fast. It took you a long time. Secondly, you have to do it so that you have a cabotage company, that is to say, that banks have more capital adequacy than they need and, thirdly, you have to do it in such a way that you correct red loans. The argument about who's to blame more or less, we don't care here. We're interested that you didn't do anything about the red loans. There's also the IMF study that says that, which I'll testify to in the Minutes. There is also in the previous issue of the Bank of Greece’s Financial Inspection, an article that makes the difference between the dispute...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u280	Mrs. Vuldesis, please don't force me to speak personally. I don't want it either. It's not appropriate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u281	What does this article say, Mrs. Vulture? Look, with the law of probability, Mrs. Vulture, if you hear it once, you'll learn something. There's that law of probability too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u282	By you, no doubt!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u283	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u284	So listen. What does experience say? What is the big difference between the United States and Japan in terms of the recapitalisation of banks? That in America, along with the recapitalisation, the red loans were also dealt with. What didn't they do in Japan? That's right. If you want to know why Japan has more recession and why it took her a lot longer to get to growth from the United States, that's why you did it and that's what you did. You did a recapitalisation and you didn't face the problem of red loans. Of course, for the EUR 100 billion, there are also the theories that claim we would have so much growth, but that was lost with SYRIZA. Of course these are predictions, they are not facts. You need to read my previous reports in the House budget, to see how far the previous forecasts had fallen both in 2012 and in 2013 and 2014. Secondly, there was the assumption that we could come to growth and at the same time have the surpluses of 4% or more. I don't think there's a serious economist who believes that. You don't even believe it, because now Mr. Mitsotakis says we go to 2%. Then you promised growth with almost 4% forever. This has never explained how it would be possible. The truth is, there were some of the SYRIZA negotiations and defeats and wins. We have just signed up to the agreement that we will implement the agreements and that we will negotiate and negotiate hard. Mr. Koutsubas is very wrong here. We also made national security a progressive change in income tax. We could cover the uninsured. We made a fund that has invested and which is not just for privatisations. SYRIZA's isolation is over. I must tell you that in the last Eurogroup, which called on us in the European Parliament to discuss, me, Sappen, Dieselblum, De Ginto, all the main finance ministers, we discussed all these things - you do not even believe them, because you are with the People's Party - which at the time PASOK said: 'It is not in Europe'. That was the agenda, and we were at this table talking about it. The most important thing, however, is that the victory of SYRIZA, and, as Christos Mandas said, our Parliamentary representative, the rise of the far right in this country, and, secondly, this was an awakening for Europe. Because almost all Europe now says what SYRIZA said, namely, that this Eurozone has structural weaknesses that need to be corrected in the direction of justice. Alex said very well that we need, not more Europe, nor less Europe, but a more social and more democratic Europe, which I have not heard from the People's Party in Europe but from you. Let me finish with this: you have failed left-hand parentheses. You failed that summer we were going to fall into negotiation the day before. You failed to close the first evaluation. You failed to get anything for the debt. You failed to be in solitary confinement and no one will speak to us. What do you have to say about the past? You want to talk about the past, so that people do not listen to what Mr Mitsotakis says about the neoliberal programme, which is exactly the same as this programme, which all neoliberals had before the big crisis of 2009. So what the Greek people will decide is this: Is there another force that will bring growth with quality elements, in terms of redistribution of income and employment relations, qualitative elements, in terms of regional dimension, of quality, in terms of democracy in decision-making? Is there a force that this development will make it five major health, education and the social economy bills? Is there this force, which, when it's in development, will be able to bring changes to the city, so there can be more democracy, or will we go back to a neoliberal New Democracy, which, with the help of PASOK, which did not vote for the simple analogue, says we should go where this crisis started? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u286	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Voridis, you didn't mention it personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u289	He mentioned me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u290	Oh, yes, he mentioned you. I will give the floor first to Mr Loverdos, who has also been personally mentioned. Mr Vorides will then be given the floor, who was also personally mentioned, and if he had asked for the floor, which he did not ask, I would also give him the floor why he was personally mentioned. Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is a matter of moral order, among other things, trying to make political speculation, influencing the political history and the political presence of people, belonging to your political opponents who are fighting you. You have done this as SYRIZA very firmly lately and you have done it today. I would like to say first of all that what you say politically and with regard to me is insurmountable. Secondly, I would like to tell you that you who have done an entire career of preparation in politics, speaking to all Greek mornings about an economic programme of alpha and now in practice for a year, are number one in the Ministry of Finance who has been implementing an omega programme and, indeed, with that enthusiasm, with this joy, you are the last person to tell me what I am going to do. Second, Minister, please don't mention...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u292	Please! Don't complain, please! Let Mr Loverdos speak unreservedly, because there was indeed a point made.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u293	Secondly, Minister, after your colleagues have ceased, I would like to tell you that you, with this history, the recent but very characteristic, are the last to talk about European social democracy. Really, Minister, what is the European Left Party? You are there or have now chosen another capacity of the observer of the Socialist Party who prepares you, is training you for what you will become after the next elections, observer of the Greek political scene. Do us a favor to speak better!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u294	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u296	Mr. Chaakalato, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u297	No, he can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u298	Maybe. Mr. Chaakalot, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u299	First of all, he didn't have any staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u300	Please, Mr. Chakaloto, I'm the address.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u301	Mr President, he had no staff and told me to speak better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u302	Whether he had any staff or he didn't, let me, Mr. Chakaluto...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u303	He didn't have any staff, and he told me to talk better.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u304	Can you not take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u305	I said that the social democracy in Greece with Venizelos and Loverdo has no future. This is a political crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u306	Because you repeat it now and it can cause another personal cycle...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u307	No, he can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u308	Maybe. A lot can be done...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u309	He didn't have any staff. It's a political assessment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u310	It's not a question of political appreciation. It is a nominal reference to this political assessment. It was good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u311	Mr President, the nominal reference is not abusive.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u312	Let me tell you that both the Head of the Democratic Integration and the Vice-President of the Government are coming, and I would ask you very much to incorporate them if they want to respond on behalf of the parties, because they are more general political reports involving top officials there. We must not insist on that. Mr. Voridis, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, I would like the floor again for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Loverdo, you've responded in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u315	I need thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u316	If Mr. Loverdos has 30 seconds, I'll have 30 too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u317	Then Mr. Chakalotos will have thirty.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u318	Mr President, I request the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Loverdo, you don't have the floor. You were very clear and answered the point raised by Mr Tsakalots. Why do you insist?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u320	I'm asking him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u321	But I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u322	But then Mr. Chakalotos will also speak. It's not right. Why are you doing this? You are extremely experienced, perhaps among the most experienced in this Chamber. The report Mr Tsakalotos has made twice, concerns the whole of your party, you personally and in any case your Chief. Understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, just thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u324	Anyway, you don't understand what I want to tell you with what I'm saying, so take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u325	Minister, you did not hear the President of this House who pointed out that you were using your second word for the second time, which I felt the insult and asked for the floor on staff. If you don't understand what you're saying, it's your business. But because I think you understand very well what you are saying and we understand very well what you are doing, what you do doesn't work. The more you say this, the more you cause in the field of the centre-left disarmament. You'll see this contraceptive in the next election.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u327	Mr Loverdo, I must tell you that I understand very well and understand that for the first time in the history of this country, the government will not expose voters, who will say, 'Declar me, so that the evil Right does not come', nor will the opposition who will say: 'Declar me, so that the evil Left does not come'. So the blackmailers are you - blackmail comes from you - telling your voters that the lost vote is valid, so you want an agreement...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u328	Let us go now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u329	Why don't you want to hear, Mr. Loverdo? Why don't you? [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Because you want to make an alliance with Mrs Bakoyannis who supports you, so vote for the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u330	Well, you both have three years in front of you to set up your arguments on this. Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Mr President. I must say, Mr Tsakaloto, ladies and gentlemen, that I did not realize that all the time that colleagues in the previous House were giving us a date 'on the fur', they told us that we are being hung and called 'German germans', they did so to strengthen us in the negotiations! This had escaped me! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But it's an interpretation and that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u332	Any of them here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u333	The truth is that it seems to me that these good colleagues are not close to us anymore! But that's your issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u334	Please, everybody be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u335	The second thing I would like to say is that Mr Tsakaloto, you talking about neoliberalism, having within four months made four demilitarizations, a little sound! I am happy to be with you, wherever you want, under the following conditions: that you will set up a programme that will reduce taxes, that you will get the professional insurance contributions back and that you will abolish the fund that you have voted on. In this direction, then, I am delighted to be involved in whatever negotiation you want. But in this direction, not in the left memorandum!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u336	Thank you. Mrs Fotini Genomes, President of the Group of the Democratic Alliance of the European People's Party - DIMAR, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u337	Mr President of the House, with all due respect to your face and to the institution you represent, I would like to say that we do not accept any suggestions to our officials, as to how they will be placed and what they will say in this Chamber. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] They have total freedom of speech and because it is the second time - unfortunately because of the fuss that has happened, I did not listen to what the Vice-President who presided over last time - reaches the limits of censorship, the way you are all intervening here many times. I come to the issues of today's sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is at a critical historical crossroads. The biggest crisis after the repopulation is recycled and the Greeks say every day, every year and every year! So the answers we will collectively give as a people will depend on the future of this country and what we will eventually deliver as a legacy to our children. In order for the Greek people to give the right answers, however, they must know all the data, what happened all these years. That's why for us, honesty is above all. The truth is the compass of our political strategy. But it is true that it will not be beautiful, not with make up ideological, as an alibi for continuing anti-grass policies. Of course, without compromises and settlings, which at the end of the day further anger the Greek people, who are led to deceive the politicians and the political system. If this goes on, the question is this: where are we going to end up, ladies and gentlemen? To someone named Trump a Greek? Is that the solution for the country? Every attempt at hooding is butter on the bread of undemocratic populism and extreme right demagogy, which threatens to put an end to Europe, to Western civilization as we have known and live to this day. So everything in the light! Nothing in the dark! We therefore voted for the government's proposal to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate the loans received by parties and the media. That is why we are voting today on the New Democracy proposal, on the need to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate the responsibilities of this period, what really happened in the summer of 2015. But for exactly the same reasons we are seeking and claiming, that this House finally be voted on and that all the parties in the constitutional arc vote on the proposal that we tabled, from December almost, the Members of the Democratic Assent for the establishment of an examination, which will investigate the whole period from 2001 until today, of course, proposing the contested period of Varoufakis. It will be a huge historical mistake not to reveal everything, to leave the Greek people a victim of disinformation and scriptology, conspiracy. All these years we have experienced a tragedy and only through a cathartic cleansing for all the parties, for all the political forces, we will finally be able to gain our lost credibility as a political system, and we will be able to convince that we are learning from our mistakes, that we are changing, that we can truly guarantee credibility, a new post-population. It is not enough to argue about who said it first, but how can we really guarantee it in this country that is sighing and wants to feel proud again. So the message is to pass on how we got the message, because no more than that is what we have been doing in recent years. Unfortunately, the messages were also negative with the responsibility of the Government and the Civilian Representation, which we sent from the electoral law. The same goes for the Constitution. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister avoided the House yesterday. He chose to stay in the yard, and the target is obvious. He is not interested in the constitutional review, as he was not interested in simply proportionally. The point is how it will get away from the crisis and how the Greek people will stop dealing with the great problems they experience every day. To achieve this, he does not hesitate to downgrade the top democratic function, which is constitutional review, in a party controversy as a tool for pursuing his own objectives. The dialogue, Prime Minister, on constitutional revision, cannot be carried out as you direct it. There's no room for pretence. At last, we challenge you again. You have the fifty Members. Come to the House tomorrow and start the process. We are fully prepared with our proposals and are in favour of the bold changes. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, on 28 July 2015, I tabled a timely question here to the Prime Minister, on the occasion of the statements by Mr Varoufakis, who said plan B under the control of the Prime Minister, was there. He had given us a mandate to do so." That is what Mr Varoufakis said at the time, and Mr Tsipras answered me, he rushed to cover him completely. He even described him as an asset for the country, last year! A few months after what the asset said, it was nonsense and very easy to fire all of its former escorts. Mr. Tsipras is now coming and believes that by invoking delusion and illusion, he is relieved of his responsibilities. I'm so sorry, it's not like that at all. It is self-evident or not that we are talking about specific political options, about specific responsibilities, because there are consequences here for the country. Time lost, money lost, Greek money lost. The country is in a permanent comitology. Lost Syntax have you signed, are you aware? Memorandum forever and the public wealth pledged for a century. 86 billion were lost from the Greek economy, 20 billion lost from the public and the insurance funds through the write-down of the bank's shares. Activity, unemployment, tax storm, business enclosures. Twenty-five thousand businesses have been closed in a year. Twelve and a half billion new measures and the'marble' are called upon to be paid for by the poorest. You don't protect the weakest. On the contrary, you are creating more and more poor. The most critical thing is that we have suffered debauchery in human resources. Hundreds of thousands of young scientists left the country and live and work abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Galbraith in his book informs us that everything was in the program in this famous X plan. There are references to the role of the army, proposals for workers to be retired, a task of agencies, the occupation of the Bank of Greece, the issue of a new currency, the hacking of the citizens' VAT and many other creepy ones. In the relevant question to the Prime Minister, which seems to have been prophetic as it turns out, I asked specific questions about the government's secret designs at this time of the country. At that time, Mr Tsipras, with a so-called disarmament naive, replied to me by word: 'Yes, of course, I had given the relevant instructions for the preparation of an alternative plan, in case the development of the negotiation led the country to dead ends and, Mrs Gennamas, had I been abandoned if I had not done so, not now.' Full take responsibility from the Prime Minister. But your argument is bare and lame. This is yet another wisdom and a proof of weakness. For this is the way, Prime Minister, is the alternative planning to deal with an emergency situation in the democratic countries? From mechanisms to limits of para-state operation? In hiding? Have you been bypassing you? Next to ministerial offices? And with who? With strangers? With friends, best friends, passive, non-institutional? Where have you heard of this before? In fact, have you committed this manoeuvre? Did you really do it? I'm asking. Explain yourself, finally. We've been asking you a year. After giving this mandate, will you finally submit to Parliament the draft as formulated by this committee? We've been asking for the papers since last year and we haven't seen anything. We will not give in to the script "He knew, he did not know, he was plan A, he was plan X, there was vulgar or there was", quite simply because all this has to be investigated by Parliament and also by justice, to finally learn what happened, what was what led the country to the edge of the cliff and destruction, and to explore the political and any criminal responsibilities and political as well as other persons. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is unthinkable that the committee of inquiry should not be extended to the investigation of all economic options from 2001 until today, just as we are saying in our proposal. The Greek people have had enough trouble for six years. He needs to know what happened, because it wasn't lightning. We have not suddenly reached the huge deficits, at 35 billion, in debts and in the competitiveness deficit in 2009 and obviously the economy did not start in 2009. The crisis brought the Memorandums and not the Memorandums of Crisis. Let us finally admit it in this Chamber and in this country! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] But when this debate is opened, SYRIZA and New Democracy are killed on all other issues, as of course Mr Varoufakis finds them. Unholy silence agreement! No talk about what happened between 2004 and 2009. Laurel-eaters! Nobody remembers anything! Counselors in their silence! But at the moment the financial derailment has taken place. Then public spending, waste in health, debts and hundreds of thousands of recruitments were blown. Mr Mitsotakis, you voted against Mr Pavlopoulou's election, because, as you said at the time, you disagreed with the policies that were carried out at that time. Now why do you have a linguist? The question, of course, is rhetorical. The answer is obvious. The question, however, which is truly worthy, is why Mr Tsipras does not want to investigate the responsibilities of the Government of New Democracy from 2004 to 2009. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Absolute protection in the realities of that time. Congratulations on the first time on the left! But that's it! It's time to talk about everyone and everything. SYRIZA and New Democracy have politically won the time of the crisis against us, but, as it has proved, and at the expense of the country. PASOK took responsibility for giving the battle then, and we don't regret it. Indeed, we were on our own, against a Europe that was unprepared to face the crisis. We did this primarily for reasons of national security, and today it turns out how right we were, that we fought with nails and teeth to stay in Europe and in the Eurozone. We never denied that there were mistakes and injustices and that there were omissions. However, SYRIZA and the New Democracy have stubbornly refused any understanding, participation and co-responsibility. They were found together in the squares of the division and played the country together at the dice in Zapeia and Thessaloniki. They were both sides of the same currency. Laity and irresponsibility. But now it is time for the Greek people to know everything, without exceptions and restrictions. Light on the actions, possible omissions and mistakes of everyone! Here's Rhodes! Let us come together to form a large parliamentary majority of sincerity. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] As a verse of Tasos Levaditis says: "Truthfulness begins where every other way to be saved ends." From 22-12-2015 we have tabled a proposal for a committee of inquiry to investigate everything that has been done for everyone, for the economic policies of the period 2001-2004 and 2004-2009, for the process of joining the support mechanisms of the first memorandum and for the results of the first memorandum, for how we arrived in the second memorandum, and what exactly were the results of the PSI, for the great restructuring and reduction of the debt in 2012, and, of course, for how we arrived at the capital controls, in the third memorandum and in the recapitalisation of the banks, which delivered them for some crumbs in foreign funds. Ladies and gentlemen, we have dared. Unfortunately, the sixteen Members of the Democratic Union are not enough. We called all the parties on the constitutional arch to sign, but we didn't get an answer. Our call is being promoted. But I come back today and ask you. Mr. Tsipras, will you sign, yes or no? Clear words! Will you sign up with this laundry process, so we can leave yesterday behind and return the country with security? Will you assume your responsibilities for the third memorandum or will it always be for everyone else? Mr. Mitsotakis, will you sign our proposal, yes or no? We want clear words from you. Because, Mr Mitsotakis, the reformists make breaks with the past, they don't become his accomplices yesterday. I would therefore ask you to dare sign up to our proposal. We're waiting for the clean answers from everyone. As far as we're concerned, pure lightning sky is not afraid! But be careful, because the people's crisis will be strict and the revenge of history will be hard for those who choose the hood today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u338	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gennamas. Before we move on, I would like to tell you about the economy of the debate that they spoke thirty-seven Members, twenty-eight of the single list, eight rapporteurs and a former President of Parliament. Eight parliamentary representatives spoke. They also spoke three of the government, with Mr Drasakis, who will speak immediately afterwards, and four chairmen of Parliament's groups. Fifty-two speakers spoke together in the ten-hour discussion process. Also because we are enough here to say that Parliament will be interrupted from 6 August to 28 August, that is to say there will be parliamentary scrutiny on 5 August with topical questions and then on Monday on 29 August also with timely questions. Please, the floor is given by the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Ioannis Drasakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u339	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully studied the New Democracy proposal to set up a committee of inquiry. In my opinion, however, this proposal with its general content reflects the embarrassment of the New Democracy and its difficulty in speaking about both the past and the future. It is difficult to talk about the past, because if it does, it must also speak of its own responsibilities for the bankruptcy of the country. It is difficult to talk about the future, because the problems go beyond it and will reveal the identity crisis that characterises this fact. All that remains, therefore, if one cannot speak of either the past or the future, is to build accounts, based on narratives from others, which it even characterizes as unreliable, and once it characterizes them as unreliable, it uses them as a basic source for documenting its position. That is what many speakers have done here today. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject that we are discussing goes beyond the context. So allow me a brief historical reference. Many perhaps economists will know from their students years ago that eighty years ago, in 1936, the professor at the time of the University of Athens, the late Angelos Angelopoulos, in his work entitled "The Greek public debt" made a statement that remained historical. The finding was that the history of public debt is at the same time the story of our country's economic life. So when we talk about bankruptcy, when we talk about debts in the state, in this country we are talking about our own history and not just economics but also politics. Both Angelopoulos, and before Alexander Andreadis, and then many other intellectuals, tried to answer the critical question of "the pilgrims", which is what the causes are and what the mechanism for the repetition and reproduction of this tragedy that accompanies us as a state from its establishment and where every time it happens, society is poorly destroyed and a lot of its wealth is destroyed. The first, therefore, which impresses me on the proposal of the New Democracy, is the lack of historical depth, the lack of a historical context. In 2015, it is an autonomous thing without before and after. They are obscure, not to say that they are deliberately hiding crucial questions. Why did our country's bankruptcy happen, one more in its history? What powers and what policies have led to it? What of these causes are internal and what exogenous? How is our crisis linked to the corresponding European crisis? What is the answer to the modern 'flying'? Is it the Southern lazy ones for the crisis in Europe, or is it the public officials who are to blame for the crisis and bankruptcy ours? I say this with a ton of staff, because I was in this Chamber with many of you and then there were voices in the ears of no listeners. Then it was graphic - I speak at least in the 2000s - whoever was talking about overcompensation for the country and the imminent catastrophe. The proposal does not refer to any of them. It is deliberately doing so, because it wants to hide the responsibilities or responsibilities of the New Democracy party. The proposal, therefore, is an obscene regularism, an attempt to distort history on the basis of the fact that the crisis began when you lost power. The crisis for you begins when the people chose SYRIZA to rule this country. We are here to answer both the de facto lies but also the reasonable questions that exist, because we are interested in the truth and the reality, because the reflection of the past is a precondition for planning the future, but also because - let me say above all - for us what happened in 2015, it was an act, a work that continues, it was a battle in a war that has not ended. So what really happened in the first half of 2015? Has it been understood, even now, what was the real issue of the negotiation? It was a war with or without introductory words, with democracy and popular sovereignty on the scale of Europe. This government fought to reach a new agreement, which would incorporate the will of the Greek people and at the same time respect European rules, fought for a Europe of solidarity, democracy, understanding and humanism. You ask us, as your proposal says, that we have not chosen to complete the evaluation of the previous programme. Let's see what that means. I happened to be present at the first Eurogroup on 11 February. In that Eurogroup, as in next, two views were expressed with great clarity. I'll avoid telling the faces that expressed them. One view said: 'We do not care if there were elections in Greece, we do not care about the outcome of the elections, you must continue where the previous ones left, you must complete the fifth evaluation of the previous programme'. There was a second point, which said: "There must be a combination of the democratic verdict of the Greek people and the European rules and obligations resulting from them". Ladies and gentlemen, if you are going to vote on this proposal, if you were at the Eurogroup, with which view you would be, with the view that recognizes democracy and the importance of the elections, or with the view to 'completion of the fifth evaluation and then we see'? I am afraid that your proposal to the Greek Parliament suggests that you would be in the toughest, conservative view, which has proved to be contrary to the interests of our country and also contrary to Europe's prospects. Your proposal talks about the continuation of the programme. What program? Second memorial. What memorial? The one Mrs Lagard said yesterday that Greece is not a successful example, the one Mr Hardouvelis said, that this programme does not come out, the one the Office of the Parliament's Budget Office had already said in 2013, that the surpluses that were anticipated were not realistic. Are you forsaken because we wanted to stop the mistake? You forsake us, saying we had to continue that disaster program? The country and the government in the first half of 2015 accepted a war by asymmetric means. He accepted a clear blackmail with the instrument of financial suffocation. This war was not accepted by SYRIZA. This war was accepted by our country and by the Greek government elected by the people. Unfortunately, we did not win the 2015 battle, but, as I said, the war continues and is not just about us, it is now about the fates of all of Europe. You forsake us, therefore, because we have given this battle. You are resigning because we have tried and rejoice - at least some - because in July under the threat of Grexit, we have been forced to fold. We insist that we have done the right thing and we insist that our proposal was the best possible solution for us and for Europe. It's no accident that many international analysts connect Grexit as a threat to the Brexit that finally came. Because Europe is a great and dangerous illusion for those who believe it can be united on the basis of fear and imposition. Throughout the first half of 2015, the country's democratically elected government faced all this pressure, having managed an intact state and in some cases, ladies and gentlemen, a eroded state. This is something you know about those who ruled this country, because your inheritance is the state I describe here. Forces through your party participated in this asymmetric war, in the name of the so-called left parentheses. You are abdicating us that we did not respect the rules of negotiation as your proposal says. What are the negotiating rules between two parties when they are connected to an asymmetrical relationship when one can destroy the other without the other having lines of defense? We have moved from the outset with the logic of the common ground, the common ground, which was finally included, but which was not respected in the February decision. In other words, we have moved on the basis of the logic of seeking a mutually acceptable agreement, and we have all moved as a government and not just some of the government. But do you mean the rules of pressure and blackmail and artificial suffocation, as rules to which we should endure without a reaction? You are asking for the use of existing financial resources on our part and some speakers have said here - I think Mr Stagioras - that we have "showed" the cash. What cash assets? I am opening a parable to say that the truth about 2015 has not been said all over and not even this evening can be said as a whole. But it will be known on time when everything can be said for both here and outside. However, I would like to present today the official table of the State General Accounting Office for February and March 2015, which shows that we received the cash deficit with less than 516 million on February 2, 2015. [[At this point, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am tabling a table, which shows the course of the occupants in our country, in order to show that we received the threshold for interest-rate stamps at EUR 14.8 billion, i.e. the new government could not issue a single insect note to cover emergencies. [[At this point, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, I submit the repos table in the Minutes. Repos is the short-term loan made by the State, based on the deposits of various public entities and municipalities in the Bank of Greece. As you will see, in February 2014 it was zero, i.e. there was no such lending. Loan starts in March 2014 to 2 billion and reaches 10 billion in December 2014. [[At this point, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That was the success story. With loan. With loan, the primary surplus was built. We didn't know that information either. We found out later. So, which funds are you talking to us about? Of course, let me say something here, without analyzing it. There were mayors last year and the President of Parliament, who refused to contribute their reserves to the Bank of Greece, so that the state could borrow and deal with blackmail, because blackmail was either wages to pay or go bankrupt. This is the impeccable country you handed us over. So who is responsible for budgetary suffocation? Will that not be answered? SYRIZA, whose government swore to the Flevari authorities, was responsible for what I'm describing? Was this fact objective, or was it planned? I put one more document in the Minutes, the last one. It is from 'REUTERS', December 4, 2014, where it says here that Europeans have then proposed to the Government a technical extension of the programme by six months and the Government has asked for the extension to be only a few weeks. It turned out to be two months. [[At this point, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What does that mean, practically? That the Government has chosen the programme to end at the end of February, so the new government from 16 January which was elected until the end of February should either be subjected to or be faced with the range of bankruptcy. So who is responsible for all this? As you can see, I'm talking about facts. I'm not making evaluations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u340	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u341	I understand nervousness. Mr. Mitsotakis will talk later, and if he wants to, he can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u342	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u343	You have invested, ladies and gentlemen, possibly with centers abroad in the left-hand parentheses, and I think Mr Samaras recently confessed it, when he said that the reason why foreigners, creditors, did not give the dose that they had to give, was that they predicted the SYRIZA victory, but they did not want the new government to find in the funds these 7 billion. Do you think that's a simple thing? You tried to become prosecutors, but you're indicted. For the bankruptcy of the country to which you are not referring, but also because you have invested, not all of you. Here I am opening a parentheses, to say - I feel I have to say - that, on the New Democracy side too, they have been its officials, who have given me the impression that they have since been sincerely interested in the negotiation, the agreement being successful, and I do not want to be equitable. On the other hand, however, there have been forces which have invested in the collapse of the country, so that the left government is out of the way. You're asking us against the Plan B. You forsake us for something that didn't happen. Because if there were a plan B, we would apply it after the referendum. So what was the charge for something, which was not a fact? Aren't you even concerned about what I call an asymmetrical relationship now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u344	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u345	You're not concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u346	But now Mr. Chakalotos was telling us about Plan B.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u347	Yeah, I heard it silently. Now you say it out loud. We all hear what everyone says. Please. Since this morning truths have been tabled in the sense of their perspective. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u348	Mr President, it doesn't bother me. If I were them, I'd react, maybe worse. They're showing a lot of temper. Are you not concerned, however, about what we call 'asymmetrical relationship'? Shouldn't a government in this position - and all the governments - be looking for alternative sources of funding or thinking about alternative payment systems? Asymmetrical relations in financial asphyxiation impose these investigations. You are asking for the account we paid for the International Monetary Fund in May and, if I understand it well, you are crediting the Bank of Greece for giving us the account. It's not exactly that truth either. The Bank of Greece forced us to take the money from the insurance funds to pay salaries, and we reacted strongly, because with Mr Stournara, I have an institutional relationship and we cooperate and we agree and we fight and we conflict. Then, from this reaction, it was revealed that there was a "magic" account in the Bank of Greece with 700 million, which no one had mentioned to us. All this has shown, as I said at the outset, that the proposal does not refer to the past, but of course you cannot talk about the future. The problems faced by Greek society go beyond you, because you are faced with a disorder of political identity. You are provoking yourself as anti-populists, plundering from morning to night. You are vindicating the identity of liberals, but the agenda you promote is hard to maintain. You're evangelizing deals of truth, but you're reproducing the lie. You cannot plan the future of society, being attached to interests, logic and attitudes of the past. We have started planning the future and preparing for the battles that await us, for sustainable and fair development, for the constitutional reform that will bring the people to the fore, for the new social state that we need. Many speakers from the opposition parties held a trial of intent. Mr Dendias in an article - I did not hear him today - said we were flirting for a long time to take the country out of the euro, Mr Venizelos that we had a secret plan to destroy institutions. All of this shows a weakness of essential criticism. The only intention of the government and aiming at all its members was to honour the oath we have given in the Constitution and in our consciences, to defend the interests of the country and the people by all appropriate means. We have never hidden, neither as opposition nor as a government, that we were of course interested in investigating all possible alternative sources of funding, all the alternative possible payment systems, all the things that could relax the truce that existed in our neck. It is noteworthy - and I note this - that a year after neither the left of the political spectrum nor the right have heard a proposal that we could implement last year. But what we have tried - and that is what I would like to stress - or what we have sought, was not part of a secret euro exit strategy, because this option has been discussed, we have voted against, we have rejected it as an option for our government plan. What we have tried, therefore, was part of the one and only transparent strategy that we have had, and that was the conclusion of a mutually acceptable agreement. This is the only historical truth. So let us all, ladies and gentlemen, adapt to the needs of our time. I agree with the phrase that we are living in a historical crossroads and as a country and as a Europe. The success of the government's policy is not a partisan objective, but the outcome of the battle we are giving concerns society as a whole. Either we put the bases for exiting the crisis or we're convicted of a long stagnation. So let us realise that we are entering a period where clean choices are necessary, so also conflicts on the basis of principles and programmes. After all, the simple analogy that has been voted on makes this even more imperative. On the other hand, however, at the same time, we need to agree on common objectives that define the collective terms of our social life. The New Democracy proposal, I think, does not serve this objective, and I therefore call on you to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u349	The President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u350	Ladies and gentlemen, it has taken four months to discuss the New Democracy proposal to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate the events of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL during the first six months of your government. I am not at all surprised at this delay. I understand that this debate makes you feel extremely uncomfortable, so uncomfortable that Mr Tsipras did not even take the floor in today's debate and left Mr Drasakis in the role of a apologizer. With the courtyard of the House, Mr. Tsipras is doing just fine. I see with plenary some difficulties recently. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have heard that Mr Kammenos is also present in Bulgaria. I think he would also go to Mongolia to avoid being present in today's debate. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] After you have done everything in your power to delay this debate, you have scheduled it today in the summer of July. If you could, I imagine it would help you even more. Mr. Tsipras faces the first six months of his administration about as a bad dream. Unfortunately, it is much more than an unpleasant memory, because this period left very heavy wounds on the body of the Greek economy and the consequences still accompany us. The economy boasted in the recession, businesses closed down, people lost their jobs, the state lost valuable assets, and of course the country's international image has been devastated. Citizens today, Mr. Ministers, pay the bill. The increased ENVIRONMENT and the short pensions are the painful price of this catastrophic period. Today we are all called upon to decide whether a committee of inquiry will now be set up, as we call for in our request, on the conditions under which the country has been dragged into an improper, Ministerial, third memorandum, the conditions which have caused the closure of the banks, the imposition of capital restrictions and the additional recapitalisation of the Greek banks. I shall return to this matter. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, a little quiet. If you don't want to, you can leave the room. It's okay. I see, after all, very limited participation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u351	It's not possible to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u352	You want me to start saying names now? Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u353	But is it possible to say "go"? Are we at his house?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u354	Aren't you ashamed? Didn't you know you were in the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u355	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u356	That's the problem. You don't understand that you're in the House. That's the tragedy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Look out, ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing whether this committee of inquiry is now being set up. Because one is certain. If we vote against, as I appreciate, our proposal, in the next House this examination will take place. This is a commitment from the New Democracy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Your refusal to subscribe to our proposal, the absence of Mr. Tsipras from the House today, raises reasonable questions. Are you afraid of something, ladies and gentlemen? Do you really not think it is in the interest of the Greek people to know exactly what happened these six months? I have heard from the ministers different interpretations of the cost of negotiation. Come on, Minister, let's talk about it. Come with your information. For as long as these questions are left unanswered about what really happened between January and July, the more the spiral will be angry, interviews will be given, books written, announcements will be made. I heard that today Mr Varoufakis announced that he intends to build a party and go down to the elections and give Eurogroup minutes to the public. In the fog of this paraphilism, the government hopes that in a magical way the pantomer will heal everything and that the more we move away from the tragic events, especially June and July 2015, the less Mr. Tsipras believes, it is the need to clarify exactly what has happened these months. You are making a big mistake, ladies and gentlemen, because the Erins will pursue you forever for what happened. Even when the truth comes out. Speaking of Greece of 2021, you don't get forgiveness for what happened in Greece of 2015. Because for your days, from incapacity, from intent, we do not know it but one thing is certain, we have come too close to a great national tragedy. You know, the bones of Constantine Karamanlis will tremble in the hearing about new post-population, by a man who has endangered the country's largest national conquest, participation in the European family. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The Committee of Inquiry, which we are asking, has one main object. To substantiate the real cost for the Greek economy, for the Greek society by the tragic manipulations of the first semester of the Tsipras - Kammenos government. This committee of inquiry, when it is done, will highlight the costs of the supposed negotiation, the costs of lost time, of humiliation, the costs of unbearable bilingualism, the costs of amateurism, handshakeness, domination, ideology, obsession, falsehood, micro-party tactics. The total cost, no matter how you calculate it, is huge. The rapporteurs of the New Democracy - but not just speakers from other parties - have also mentioned the statements made by the Governor of the Bank of Greece, who calculated the costs for the first half of the year at EUR 86 billion. Mr. Regling estimated it at EUR 100 billion on 23 June 2016. As much as you try to distort reality, you know, the facts are not questionable. So let's see, firstly, what exactly happened to banks, ladies and gentlemen, and just how much money was lost from unnecessarily third recapitalisation. I have here an interesting painting, which I will present to you in the Minutes. On 30 June 2014, the value of the participation of the Financial Stability Fund in the four systemic banks was EUR 19.7 billion. Do you know how much it was on February 18, 2016, on the last date data was published? It was 1.4!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u357	In December 2014, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u358	In December 2014 was a little less, but again much more than when you became government and what was the participation, Minister, of the Greek State in banks? [[Noise - voices in the Chamber]] Don't shout! The truth is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u359	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u360	What truth?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u361	The truth is here. What was the participation, Minister, of the Greek State in the banks?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u362	Say a number.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u363	How old was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u364	Don't be exposed, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u365	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u366	The Financial Stability Fund had 57% of the four systemic banks. Do you know how much he has today? 20% [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's why you're leaving today, gentlemen. For the huge damage you caused to the Greek taxpayer, the fact that the third inappropriate recapitalisation changed the ownership structure of the banks and reduced Greek participation, the fact that banks were purchased from foreign funds and from foreign investors, who acquired control over just EUR 5.3 billion. That's all for the banks. So let's see what happened in the real economy. I've told you the numbers before. You insist on ignoring them. The country's GDP would have been EUR 195 billion if forecasts were confirmed at the end of 2014 and it would have been 175 billion. You cost us 20 billion euros, gentlemen, 5 000 euros for each Greek family. You loaded us a third uncompromising memorial. I was really surprised - I am opening a parentheses here because I noted it - that Mr Juliarakis' position that you signed a third memorandum because they failed the previous two. Didn't you say? I'm sorry, didn't you tear the memoirs? Do you have the courage to come here today and say this conversation, when you won elections, saying you're going to tear the memos? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have therefore taken 9 billion additional measures and with the ENPI to exceed EUR 3.5 billion. You put a hat on small estates and plots and of course you retreat completely under the pressure of the New Democracy, of course...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u367	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u368	Mr. Papadopoulos, be quiet. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u369	The controls on capital controls, capital movements, dismantled the real economy. I am not going to dwell on the export figures, on the padlocks or on the Stock Exchange. All this is well known. But anyone who moves to the real economy, these exporting companies who are struggling to survive in adverse conditions, know very well what the cost of imposing capital controls was. Of course, to what I am saying, I have not included the cost of additional borrowing, which is directed not towards refinancing existing loans, about 20 billion, nor, of course, the effect of the migration of hundreds, if not thousands of companies abroad, but of course they do not involve anything else. The intangible cost of the enormous damage that your inability has done in the image of the country, the enormous damage you have caused. The first time on the left, it wounded the country's image very seriously in Europe, a government below the circumstances that played the country's future in dice. You deceived, blackmailed, and eventually went into a naughty retreat in front of the spectrum of the upcoming disaster. Then you wondered why Harvard University gave you the prize for the worst negotiation in 2015. This was the worst negotiation of the century not of 2015. You deserved this prize, you know, but the Greek people didn't deserve it. The Greek people didn't deserve what happened to him. I'm really looking at you at the Step and I'm wondering. What great human being today, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, would have left the conditions which led to this catastrophe unreasonable? Obviously, there are political responsibilities. In order to be able to account for them, however, we need to know exactly what happened, if there was a mistake, if there was negligence, if there was intention and these responsibilities must be charged. We've told you many times. We don't do it re-changing. That's not the motive of counterpopulation. We want the Greek people to learn the truth so that we can all learn from our mistakes, but above all to prevent any future, populist, populist, demagogues and liars from playing the fates of the Greek krone - letters again. Mr. Tsipras, it's clear he doesn't want this committee of inquiry. Because if it were to happen, it would have to give an answer to the irresponsible question whether he was consciously lying or not he knew what was happening to him or - to say more elegantly, to your own language - if he had left-wing deceit. Most likely they both happened at the same time. To make something clear, Mr Ministers, because I have heard you say this today. In January 2015, you did not take any instructions for strong negotiation. You have ordered to tear the memorials, with a law and an article, to drive Greece to an exit from the crisis with some magical recipe and you have failed miserably. I don't remember anyone voting for negotiation. But I remember citizens voting for you because you told them that you would abolish HNVIA, that you would grant a third pension, that you would increase the minimum wage to EUR 751, that you would implement the Thessaloniki programme. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is why they voted on you, not to make any negotiation. They believed you and voted you for what you promised and you never did. So what was distributed between January 2015 and July 2015 was a shadow theatre, to get away from the endless lies to which you owed your election victory, because you never had a plan out of the crisis. There was a plan. How you understand authority. The marginalisation of PASOK, the attraction of as many of his constituents as possible who trusted him in the past, was really your plan. It was a business based on lies, demagogy, fake dilemmas. Mr. Tsipras, he knew from the outset that his announcements could not be made. In fact, I think he knew that he could not abolish the memorandum with a law and an article and you knew all that from the very beginning. You also knew that it would be in the interests of the country and we were telling you this all the time - and I am glad that, at least, Mr Drasakis recognised it - 'close the agreement as soon as possible'. I, in my first speech as a parliamentary representative, told you. But, of course, if you did this, you would surprise your voters who trusted you. That is why you have chosen this long-lived negotiation, extremely useful politically for you, extremely disastrous for the Greek people. You rejected a plan by the previous government, which had begun to bring results. You have provoked unnecessarily elections, destroying the spirit of the Constitution. And now I was listening to Mr Tsipras being cut to disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House. It's, at least, ironic! Who are you laughing at? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You blocked the country's development path, promising a solution, which only existed in your imaginary subconsciousness. I will try to summarise in six points your course in the first nine months of 2015. Unforgettable lies and irresponsible promises to win elections. Elevation of the negotiating time, so that we can finally find ourselves, as you confessed, with the back on the wall, before the ruthless dilemma 'in or out of the euro'. A referendum - third stage - to dramatise the situation and justify reversal. Full coding, signature of the third memorandum and its vote, based on the patriotic sensitivity of this party and the rest of the opposition parties, who held the country upright. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, not neglecting the sixth stage, the sudden elections. Why is that? To get rid of your inner-party rivals, who have not been able to attend to you in cubism, or have to write down any criminal responsibilities that would be burdened with by the government for the operations of the first semester? Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the result of the first six months of your government has been disastrous. The country was found with its backs on the wall, faced with pressing increasingly growing financial needs, with an expanded budget gap, in conditions of recession and financial suffocation, with closed banks and without a European support mechanism, without time and, as it proved, without allies. And under this pressure, the government finally came to the signature of the third memorandum, which is undoubtedly painful, but certainly more painful than it could have been before the referendum was held, and certainly, even more painful, if you had chosen to complete the negotiation in the first two months of your government. The referendum - parody of 5 July - was what forced you to sign the third memorandum. It was an alibi for Mr. Tsipras to be able to escape from his false pre-election promises. And the referendum, ladies and gentlemen, was what closed the banks, which caused the panic, the tails to the ATMs, what terrorized, scared and finally kneeled Greek women and Greeks. And you knew that this was exactly what would happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u370	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u371	You know, however, I have the impression that for you, majority gentlemen, capital controls were not a problem. You thought cynically. Someone who takes his salary and pension will not be deeply upset by the capital controls. Only you have forgotten that in this way you have dismantled the productive economy and led tens of thousands of people to unemployment. And that is the destiny you have for the Greek people, unfortunately: lasting poverty. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] So be careful, ladies and gentlemen, instead of shouting out the sequence of events. And I want your attention here a little, just like the Ministers. When did the referendum decision be taken? For the Council of Ministers of 26 June 2015. When was the referendum placed as a date? What date was set? The 5th of July, five days after the expiry of the loan support programme. You knew very well that your decision was taking the country off schedule. And you knew very well that at that time the European Central Bank was obliged to suspend the granting of emergency assistance from the ELA to the Greek banks and this would have the inevitable effect of closing the banks and imposing capital controls. Well, let's see. Didn't you go, Mr. Drasakis, along with Mr. Tsakalotos on 27 June 2015 to Mr. Draghi? And what did you say next? You revealed it in your interview at "KATHMERINI" on 24-1-2016. You spoke - afterward - about imposing controls on the movement of capital and you asked for help so that this could be done smoothly and reversible. And what did the other protagonist of the crisis told us - I will come back to him - Mr. Varoufakis? What revealed us on 2-7-2015 for that traumatic conversation at the first meeting he had in live transmission with Mr. Düsseblum? That the President of the Eurogroup then pointed out that, without a memorandum, the programme would collapse and collapse the banks or impose capital controls. And when Mr Varoufakis in his relatively recent interview with SKAI asked whether at the time the referendum was decided they knew - that you knew - that the banks would close down, he replied clearly that you obviously knew it. And this certainty that without a programme, the banks, even Mr Galbraith, will be shut down, had pointed it out in an article from February 2015. So you knew exactly what would happen, you knew that the banks would close, you knew that capital control would be imposed, and yet you proceeded with the referendum. Of course, we also know something else, namely that Mr Tsipras has asked for a plan B to be prepared. I'm a little involved with what you said, Minister. Mr Tsipras himself told us that he asked for Plan B and 'take' - look out, I use his own words - 'the content of this study'. First of all, shouldn't the Greek people know this study? Will you testify to it in the House at last? Why are you hiding it from the Greek people this study? Why such secrecy about plan b, Mr. Tsipras and government ministers? And, of course, here I have a reasonable question: did you need a study to realize that an uncomplicated exit from the Eurozone would amount to bankruptcy? Didn't you know that? Did you have to ask for a special study? Really, how close, exactly, have we been in the implementation of the infamous plan b? Was there really preparation for a parallel currency for an alternative payment system? For this is what Mr Varoufakis and Mr Galbraith claim in their book and, in particular, in very enlightening detail, referring to coup d'états and the use of the public order army. I cannot forget, ladies and gentlemen, that three days before the referendum Mr Tsipras visited Mr Kammenos in the Pentagon and Mr Kammenos made an impressive statement. I repeat, it has a value. Then, perhaps, we didn't understand exactly what he meant, even though we had been hammering it in our communication. What did Mr. Kammenos say then? ‘The country's Armed Forces ensure stability inside the country’. You should know that this is the job of the Ministry of Civil Protection and not the Armed Forces. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If, therefore, there is even a casting of truth in these claims, then there was indeed, ladies and gentlemen, a deflection scenario. And you come to tell us now that you can, with a quiet conscience, with ironic smiles, vote against our proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, on a matter which is not just about the economy, but about democracy itself. And take note here of the oxymomile: We set up a committee of inquiry two and a half months ago on the loans of parties and the media, for a number of hundreds of millions. We voted to set up this committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen. And it's good we did it, that we did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u372	You didn't pay for the loans, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u373	Did you pay the loans?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u374	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u375	And I asked Mr Tsipras to agree on this point, namely that we should vote on your own proposal and vote on our own. Your proposal concerned a few hundred million. Our proposal concerns 100 billion euros and you are voting against it today! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Look, no favoured state can proceed with so many skeletons in the locker. And one more thing: What was the real role of Mr Varoufakis? What was behind this intolerable and provocative narcissism? Did he have his own agenda, or did he eventually act in consultation with the Prime Minister? For I remember Mr Tsipras on 28 April - look - to tell us 'Yanis Varoufakis is an important asset for the government and for the country'. He said it on April 28th. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Was the plan b finally plan a a and was at the last minute - as Mr Varoufakis accuses him - just did Mr Tsipras just fear and gave it all to the lenders? Because that's the charge of Mr. Varoufakis. And if there was a problem with Mr Varoufakis, why didn't you really replace him earlier when you realized his true intentions? Look, there is no issue here, Baroufakis. There's a Tsipra issue. Mr. Tsipras cannot hide behind Mr. Varoufakis! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, two days ago we celebrated forty-two years ago the restoration of our democracy and, behind often stereotyped statements, awkward smiles, there was a common component. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] No society, ladies and gentlemen, can proceed without collective self-awareness and no leadership can convince citizens that it can meet the demands of times unless it can convince them that it has learned from its mistakes. Mr. Tsipras should be the first to wish that this committee of inquiry, if he wanted to send a message, that it really changes, that your first period of governance had characteristics of political adulthood, that the naivety of the romantic Left conflicted with the ruthless and cruel reality and, of course, the second prevailed. It would therefore be, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of Inquiry, a first-class opportunity for you to say a strong 'I'm sorry'. But you do not, because you have no desire to learn from your mistakes, because you are still denying your responsibilities today. And even today we are talking about, you have divorced both from the truth and from the reality and you still see policy in terms of communication. The predominance of power is the absolute self-eminence to you and the Prime Minister remains - I cannot make a reference to this - ungrateful in the face of the extreme vulgar phrase of the government partner for Mrs. Gennamas... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ... so that you do not disturb the balance of the heirly coalition. And you have the courage to talk about the values of the Left! You continue to mock the Greek people. No plan to leave the country from the crisis you don't have. With political tactics, move every day. That is why you have kept in mind the simple analogy and, of course, you have suffered a bad political and parliamentary defeat, because you have found a front of democratic responsibility on your part.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u376	A hundred and eighty-six-member defeaters?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u377	That's why you allowed the sixteen and seventeen to vote. You know, however, the current of frustration that prevails in these ages will not heal it by giving these young children the right to vote. That is why, of course, in the summer too, you started the process of constitutional revision, obviously not in substance terms, but in terms of communication. The "new post-population" and "new Greece" as a screening background of an outgoing Prime Minister, who is lost as soon as the lights are turned out. And what's left? Taxes, unemployment, recession, despair, deep pessimism of all Greeks for the future of our country. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Because you really do not care about the institutional upgrading of the country and the revision of the constitution. That's why yesterday's presentation was so shallow, so superficial. He ignored provocative issues, which should be at the core of a documented proposal on reconstruction and the change and revision of the Constitution. You didn't make a single mention. - gentlemen of the government, Mr. Minister, in development, in education, in the environment, in public administration, as if these issues were not concerned with the Constitution. Of course, the worst of all was the absolutely disgraceful way Mr Tsipras referred to the institutions of representative democracy. You have devalued Parliament, and today the Prime Minister, in his absence, not only because you dressed it up with your party banners - unprecedented about Parliament's data! - but why did the Prime Minister tell us about - look out! - invoking Russo three hundred years ago that parliamentary democracy is slavery. They're slavery, she told us why citizens decide their fate every four years! And you're done...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u378	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u379	Examination for Russo! We're looking for a probe.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u380	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u381	And you have finished your speech, Mr Tsipras, with the following words: 'For the first time democracy in power'. Aren't you embarrassed? How do you so, gentlemen, in the country, institutions, citizens, its own history? How do you have the courage to identify and equate democracy with the Left? You were really sad, Mr. Tsipras, yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u382	You say that, where did you connect the government to the Papastavros? How about you?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u383	Sad!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u384	Well done, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u385	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u386	Sad, sad!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u387	Well done, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u388	And even more regrettable is that it is lost on your Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, one chance after another, for the institutional upgrading of the country and its development.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u389	And the left-wing dictatorships came to Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u390	Please stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u391	From your inn... (It hasn't been heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, can you impose the order, or will you continue to tolerate the voices of the Chamber of Deputies?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u393	Mr. Dark, please, stop. Come on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u394	You know, however, no government has had a long time with that logic. The wave of your popular indignation has already covered the only question, which remains, is how much damage you will still do in the country, before you leave power, which you so passionately loved, but you have despised as a tool to improve the lives of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close with the following point: Mr Galbraith, describing SYRIZA, wrote - listen, he is interested in how your adviser described you - 'a coalition by former communists, trade unionists, 'green' and university professors - this is the description of Mr Galbraith for you - 'it goes up to power, only in times of despair'.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u395	Despair of a society that lived in corruption... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u396	It's for you, your advisor! Were you paying him to say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u397	Something you're going to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u398	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u399	Despair, however, will soon give its place to the hope of truth. Because the truth is a prerequisite for growth and prosperity. That is why the Committee of Inquiry into the events of your Government needs to be made, because the country, ladies and gentlemen, has been a long way from getting into uncomplicated bankruptcy and turning into Venezuela in the Mediterranean. And your suffering - this is the basic value of the exam - must be taught to everyone about the tragic deadlocks in which the homeland can be led by the policies of populism, demagogy, opportunism and irresponsibility. And this is the greatest usefulness of the examination, which we are proposing, so that the country will never again live in the first tragic half of 2015, so that the country will never be governed again by such a ruthless, incompetent and idealistic system of power, to return real democracy to the place and to look at our future with optimism again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u400	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Mitsotakis. Mr Tsakalots wants to make an intervention and then, of course, he has the right, if necessary, to take the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u401	I want to make two clarifications at first, and then I'll just say three points....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u402	After he closes with the president. After the Captain's gone!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u403	Please, it's Mr. Dendias here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u404	Let the President come!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u405	Why do you suggestions? There are no secondments. Please. Please. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr. Ignace, please. We will not be running the procedures of this House together.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u406	Here comes Tsipras!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u407	It's not your decision. That's not your decision. He can't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u408	I would refer you to the previous day, and I would like you not to speak, if possible, in procedural terms. Okay? Mr. Chakalotos has the floor as the Minister of Finance, to say three things...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u409	No one can get a dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u410	...and the parliamentary representative can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u411	Where does that come from, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u412	From which article, in what process... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u413	Mr. Javarra and Mr. Bourra, please, you're old.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u414	Where does that come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u415	It doesn't come from anywhere!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u416	Mr Javarra, I do not understand how you act today and the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u417	Why are you doing a systematic violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u418	Please, Mr. Javarra! Can I tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u419	Do you mind the truth? Is that your democracy? Do you mind the truth that Mr. Chakalotos will say? This is where your democracy ends!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u420	You are making a systematic violation of the Rules of Procedure and parliamentary ethics. That's exactly why I'm yelling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u421	Please, Mr. Javarra...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u422	That's what you do all the time. You have become a party president.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u423	Thank you very much for your appreciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u424	You're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u425	Please don't keep talking. If I refer you to the Minutes, Mr. Bourra...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u426	We have agreed on the procedure. The procedure is agreed! This is what you need to read.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u427	Let's go to the vote now!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u428	Please be quiet. Mr. Javarra, we've all run tests. We've given 10 months of tests in here now, of these positions. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u429	But where you've given tests, we haven't!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u430	Please don't give up on me. I don't honor you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u431	Neither do you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u432	Mr Javarra, you are not honouring what you are doing, and it is for second session. Therefore, you are not honoured at all. You should know that. Okay? If I give you the minutes of the four previous committees of inquiry - and the older ones should know them - since we have time at the end of the day, there was the possibility and there was a minimum dialogue with government ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u433	Only with the Chiefs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u434	Among what? Between the Chiefs?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u435	Don't interfere, Mr. Javarra. I will refer you to specific minutes of the last four meetings of the Committee of Inquiry. Do you understand that? It's the country's Minister of Finance and the examination you asked for is about the economy. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr Aygeakis and Mr Javarras, if you want to play this role, one thing I will say to you: I am sure you have not been assigned by your side. No way. And that's why you're talking that way. Understood?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u436	But aren't you ashamed? Give me the floor, please. I ask for the floor on staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u437	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor. Mr. Javarra, please leave the episodes!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u438	Are you offended by the President of this House, a representative of the Greek people? Are you President of Parliament? I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u439	You insult the procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u440	Come now that I'm insulting you!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u441	Are you President of Parliament? I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u442	Mr. Javarra, I begged you last time. You're not respecting anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u443	I respect your office, but I'm very sorry, because you're acting as a party leader. This is the first time in Parliament's history! You need to think well about the violin you've started....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u444	It's a disgrace to you what you're saying. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u445	...you should've thought about it. You are creating huge problems in parliament and democracy! And you need to think about it well. Because you are partisan and always offended colleagues who do not belong to your resignation!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u446	I'm afraid you have the arrogance of a one-party perception. Understand? You're arrogant. You thought...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u447	Do we have arrogance?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u448	Don't talk to the plural. You have the arrogance of uniqueness. You thought that the procedure could be directed only for the interests and for the reason of some. This can't be done. That's what the Rules of Procedure say. That's what the Constitution says. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I told you last time and I said it right and very quiet. If, as an exception, you have any problem - I am not complaining, because we have objections, complaints, controversies every day - the address of Parliament's procedures to put forward a motion of censure. I told you directly and individually and collectively to do so. But this cannot continue. I'll run the procedure. We will not run it together and we will not be screaming. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u449	Mr President, I am asking for the floor. Give me the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u450	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative is here and can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u451	Oh, right? That's what it's called tyranny. It's not called a democracy! [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA and ANEL wings]] ... to a Member of Parliament who has been systematically insulting him for five minutes. You insult me personally and you don't give me the right to listen to this is called democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u452	How do I not give you? You've heard multiples of me and words that I didn't use. For tyranny, let some people know more than you do. Okay? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u453	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two clarifications at the beginning. From this side of Parliament, from 1974 onwards, we have been fighting for the simple analogue. Objection, you don't say it. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Secondly, it seems that your Chief, due to a difficult childhood, has not read Russo well.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u454	Aren't you ashamed? Don't say it again!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u455	You be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u456	Millionaire of London, will you sell us a spirit?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u457	Please don't make personal reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u458	Let us go now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u459	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u460	Aren't you embarrassed? Let's not start now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u461	Not at all. Especially when I have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u462	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u463	You want to talk from 'Iton, with the millions?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u464	Come on, get out of here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u465	Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u466	Laugh!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u467	You're looking!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u468	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u469	You're the quintusia of ridiculous!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u470	Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u471	The distillate!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u472	Mr. Chakaloto, don't make personal reports and no personal humor. Please, just politically.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u473	I repeat, for some reason...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u474	If you don't learn Greek... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u475	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u476	You should be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u477	You be ashamed of yourself! [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Yeah, what a pity to tell us he's a political prisoner.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u478	Mr. Chaakalato, please. We're not honored by that image.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u479	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u480	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u481	Let me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u482	Please, not on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u483	Not on personal grounds, but because...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u484	For any political matter you think he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u485	I don't want to have a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u486	Mr President, to withdraw! He can't iron like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u487	That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u488	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u489	He said he was having a tough childhood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u490	Make it easier for you to have a little chat, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u491	I just want to say, because I was attacked for my Greeks, as I was attacked for my Greek once by a Golden Dawn MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u492	You didn't attack. You were attacked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u493	I said then on Golden Dawn, when you go abroad, say...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u494	Sit down. We don't care about your personalities, sir. Here you are, Minister, speaking for the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u495	Aren't you ashamed to interrupt?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u496	What are you interfering with?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u497	Aren't you ashamed to interrupt? What's your education?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u498	To resist nationalism and decline. That's my education.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u499	Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u500	We're not going to allow you to drive the place to this fracture.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u501	Mr. Javarra!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u502	And because you asked me about my education...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u503	Mr. Javarra, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u504	...to resist...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u505	Mr. Javarra, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u506	Mr President, I will be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u507	Be quiet and on the euphoria...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u508	Mr President, I would like to say that I will not speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u509	One minute, but not on personal issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u510	...because the New Democracy obviously has a strategy not to hear a representative from Mr. Mitsotakis. I'm not talking. I think it's a structured, specific policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u511	You saved us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u512	Yes, sir. Thank you. Mr. Javarra, don't fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u513	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u514	Mr. Chakaloto, please. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Kelles, sit down, please. Please, be quiet! Be quiet. Mr. Javarra, please! Before I give the floor to Mr Dendia, Mr Javarra, I would like to express my appreciation for your face in plenary, regardless of the tension between us. I've been saying this right about your presence here for so many years, but also lately. Thank you. Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u515	Mr President, I should first of all like to say that the statement you have just made is an honour to you. And you, as a person and the position of the President of Parliament. I'm sorry, Minister of Finance. I can't say the same for you. I must tell you that it has been particularly disturbing to me, but especially to New Democracy as a whole, your ironic reference to the President of New Democracy, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u516	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u517	The market look you are addressing me, standing back in the armchair and why I will explain it immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u518	You didn't let me talk. Thirty people didn't let me talk, and now...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u519	Why are you talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u520	You interrupt me, Minister, or I understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u521	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u522	Where was your family?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u523	What have you done to me? Thirty people didn't let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u524	Do you want to let me continue, because maybe you'll take advantage of it, so you'll apologize?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u525	Apologise for your MPs and apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u526	I would be very grateful if the debate could take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u527	Apologise for your MPs who didn't let me speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u528	Minister, have you finished the delirium?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u529	You must apologize for interrupting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u530	Please calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u531	You made sure that the Chief of the New Democracy, absent from Ethiopia, was "a difficult task for his young man". First of all, I would like to enlighten you in what is happening, because you are likely to be missed by historical truth. Evidently, in your idealism, only the Left fought against the dictatorship and only the Left deserves a hint...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u532	Please don't be noisy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u533	Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, an infant at the age of months, because of his father, was with the whole Mitsotakis family under house arrest. She was not allowed out of her house throughout the Mitsotakis family. [[Noise in the Chamber]] If you are kind, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u534	Please, be quiet. No comments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u535	And he left abroad after the intervention of the Red Cross, unbaptised, along with the whole of his family, with a provisionally granted passport, which he wrote "unbaptized". He grew up in Paris until the dictatorship fell, and returned to Greece, without even knowing the Greeks he was learning at home. In that sense, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u536	Be quiet, please, so Mr. Deedias can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u537	It's all right, Mr. President. I'm patient. In this sense, Minister, the only thing you can do, all - and I note now - is to speak and challenge our Members. And then, you're complaining that they're speaking to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u538	Please, there's no need for irritation! Mr. Chakaloto, please, there's no need for irritation. Please! No need for irritation! Alas! [[Noise in the Chamber]] [[Laughing From the Golden Dawn Wing]] You're welcome, Mrs. Zarulia. Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u539	The only thing you can do is get up and apologize to Mr. Mitsotakis for what you said. It is a pity, because your general presence here - and I would like to say that - does not fit in with what you have just done. But beyond that, I tell you that as a human he does not honor you. So I ask you, and I tell you that it is appropriate to do this, and you will be able to help, and Parliament will honour, get up and apologize for Mr Mitsotakis and his family. I'm coming to the rest now. You blamed us...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u540	I couldn't talk, and now he's gonna talk? Didn't you let me talk and now she's talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u541	Yes, Mr. Chakaloto. You did not have time to talk about the essentials. And you, Mr. Dendia, have the floor for a while, and if it takes again, Mr. Chakalotos will say something. Either way, today's last word is yours, in any case. You've made the proposal for the examination.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u542	But I do not want the last word to be relevant, Mr President....
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u543	We do not dispute these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u544	Such interventions by the Minister. I wouldn't want to. I would like to talk about the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u545	Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u546	So on the basis of the facts. The Minister accused us, telling us that he had to do the third recapitalisation, because we did not do the second recapitalisation properly. In other words, if I understand correctly, Minister, proper recapitalisation of the banks first presupposes their closure, their complete destruction, so that it can function after the system. We who recapitulated them openly didn't do it well. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As you also said, Minister, we did nothing about the red loans. We voted for a red loan law, n.4307/2014. For one and a half years, you have not implemented it, for a year and a half you have not even issued the templates, which you have been planning, for a year and a half, to make better regulations on the market, and what you have done at the end, it is just to bring in a law whereby, where the thing had arrived, there was nothing else to do, rather than create a secondary market, so that the banks could find some money. And of course, you came here and completely questioned what Mr Stournaras said, okay, and what Mr. Reggling said, who puts up 86 to 100 billion. Minister, you didn't convince us today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u547	Thank you, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u548	Mr President, just a minute. Minister, you didn't convince us today, but the fact that you didn't convince us is a little bad. We weren't expecting you to convince us. But what I repeat and ask you to do, and I ask you very strongly, is, as soon as I sit, to rise and apologize. At least that's the least necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u549	Because two, three issues have been raised on the substance of the debate, I would ask Mr Tsakalotos to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u550	I think they've said I shouldn't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u551	Please, no, no! Mr. Chaakalato...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u552	We, however, let him speak. They don't even have courtesy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u553	You're very welcome. On the substance, if you'd like. From there on, it is clear that the dispute that has been recorded and everyone has reached its conclusions, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u554	The main point is what would happen in 2015. The Chief of Staff Response told us that in 2015 we immersed the country in the recession, at 0.02%. I'd like to know, if it's a 0.02% sink, 25% the previous, what was it? What's New Democracy saying? If we had won the elections, or if we had not prevented the'success story', we would have a growth of 2.7%. I'm counting on that, because he said he would have reached the national income at 195 billion. What doesn't he tell us? That the primary deficit in 2014 was 0,2% and the target for 2015 was 3%. How many meters did it take? They needed 5.4 billion. With 5.4 billion, in other words, we would grow by 2.7%, which would be a historic precedent for all other countries. That is why Mr Juliarakis has rightly said that we have not been able to get out on the market. And he has asked me to submit the table in the minutes, which shows how far we were from the markets. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Vice-President raised another issue: in Europe in 2015 there were two trends. One trend said to find them with the Greeks, that there is the Greek people's democratic mandate and there are eighteen other commandments, so a compromise has to be made. There was also the other trend - the Vice-President did not name who were on each side - which said 'the rules are rules and there is no need for any compromise'. I understood from Mr Mitsotakis' speech that he was with the second one. That, well two months were extended and not six months, that we were wrong and did not sign the fifth evaluation, which you did not sign, and the Europeans did well in the summer when they did not give us an extension of the programme for ten days to get the programme out. That is what I understood, that in these three conflicts, you would be with Europeans.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u555	Whatever he wants, he understands!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u556	Mr. Chakatte, summarize.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u557	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u558	And then Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u559	The main thing, however, is that Mr Dendias raised the issue of styles and ethos, is that it is not right for your President and for others to speak of 'false', 'democratics' and 'latics'. Call the Prime Minister of the country "accidentally persecuted" and "accidentally liar". If you think that this is how you create democratic dialogue, I think you are making a huge mistake! In front of them, what I said about Mr. Mitsotakis, which was funny, is a pit! When a man has gone to Harvard and so speaks deceptively for both the Prime Minister of the country, but also for all his opponents, I have not understood what he learned in Harvard. Say "fakes," say "fakes" etc. Or have any arguments? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So, if you're really honest, from now on, we'll be saying arguments. But that applies to both sides. Why, all the accusations about 'Cholacoglou' and'suppliers' you said, little has been heard by the people who are here!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u560	Minimal?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u561	Tell me one of them. Who said that? Drasakis, Juliarakis, Tsipras? Of those who are here, I said, Mrs Bakoyannis!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u562	Please finish, Mr. Chakalote.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u563	Do you want a better political response? Do you want to talk about the way you talk? You cannot tell the Prime Minister that he is a "false" and a "accidental persecutor". I think that's so heavy that what I said really doesn't count with no numerator.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u564	Mr. Teddy, I'll give you the floor. Let me just make a comment. Mr. Chakaloto, all these things have nothing to do with Harvard or Oxford. It's self-evident either way. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u565	Mr President, first of all, with what Mr Chakalotos said, he questioned our forecast of growth in 2015 and 2016. The forecast for growth in 2015 and 2016, Minister, first of all, was not just our prediction, so that I could tell you correctly why you fell out with the divisions you made. The forecast was 2.5% in 2015 and 3.5% in 2016. This has also been accepted by the curiously tougher in all other cases of the International Monetary Fund and is repeated by Mr Regling. Also, because you told us about the primary surplus, I would not tell you what we were talking about, but I would refer you to what the idea of the first six months of SYRIZA, Mr. Yiannis Varoufakis, said at Eurogroup on 11 February, where he expressly states 'primary surplus has been reached 1.5%', the primary surplus has reached February 1.5%. I come now, after all and a little on education and behaviour. First of all, the Minister, the great perpetrator, tried to justify it in return for the New Democracy because the Prime Minister was called "false". I don't know, and I didn't hear it now. But, Minister, I have to tell you one thing. If we all stood up here with one voice and said "friendly" to the Prime Minister, I think society would take us out with the lemons. In addition, as far as your own behaviour is concerned, I gave you an opportunity, Minister, and you did not take advantage of it. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] So I'm telling you, lynas and tarmac. Your reference to Mr Mitsotakis and to the New Democracy has been made unauthorized and unacceptable. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am telling you, in addition to that, that if you think you can, in the name of a theoretical quantity, called 'left', since you've been exaggerating this fact for five years, since you've stayed as a party what you can imagine - you've told us traitors, germans, sold and everything else you can imagine - come here and have the courage to be the offender, because someone called 'false' the Prime Minister, then I return your courage and your treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u566	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the proposal put forward by the Chief of Staff Response and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and the Members of his party for a committee of inquiry, on the investigation of the reasons for the imposition of bank holidays and capital restrictions, the signing of the third memorandum and the need to recapitalise credit institutions, has been completed. It will be followed by a roll-call vote, which will be held in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. They accept the proposal, they say, 'WHEN'. The non-acceptance of the proposal is said to be 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reason to speed up the vote because two committees are going to meet. On the list, the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Anastasia Gara, from SYRIZA and the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, from New Democracy, is called on the list. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues, on a mission from Parliament abroad, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, with whom they make their votes known. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u567	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u568	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have received letters from colleagues from Mr Nikolaos Kotzias, Mr Dimitrios Baxvanakis, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote 'OH'. Also, Mr. Theodoros Karaoglou, Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis, Mrs. Charula (Hara) Kefalidou and Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos are absent and by letter they know that if they were present they would vote "NAI". These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u569	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u570	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the vote. A total of 271 Members voted. In favour of the proposal, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 96 MPs. On the proposal, i.e. 'OR', 155 Members voted. ‘PARON’ have voted 20 Members, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u571	Consequently, the proposal tabled by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Members of his party, to set up a committee of inquiry into the reasons for the imposition of bank holidays and capital restrictions, the signature of the third memorandum and the need to recapitalise credit institutions, is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u572	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-07-26-S1-commons.u573	With the consent of the House at 21.45' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 27 July 2016 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House: legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed to you.
