ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 7-4-2016, the minutes of the PCA meeting, of Thursday 7 April 2016, with regard to the resolution to the whole draft law: ‘Modification of the Air Services Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Government of New Zealand and other provisions’, were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-08-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 11 April 2016. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 752-5-2016 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the overall upgrading of the Regional Road of Thessaloniki. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP II of the New Democracy, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the uncontrolled action by NGOs with a suspected role and funding in the reception areas of refugees and illegal immigrants. 3. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Culture and Sports on the need to re-establish the single price of the book. 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Environment and Energy, about the biomass power plants in the Municipality of Gortyna, Heraklion Crete. 5. The question asked by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance about the loss of proceeds from the trade in counterfeit products. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 743/4-2016 of Parliament's second Athens, New Democracy Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the reduction of the Income of the Middle Order. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 708/28-32016 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Health on the problems of the General Hospital of Lamia. 3. The Question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the problem of the operation of the Epirus TEI from the lack of teaching staff and equipment. 4. Mr Konstantinos Katsafandou, Member of the Commission with number 707/28-3-2016, on the role of NGOs in tackling the refugee and immigration problem 5. The Question No 663/15-32016 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Finance concerning the participation of Greek entrepreneurs in the increase of the capital of Greek Television Channel and the delay of loans granted to PEGASOS SA. 6. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction about the problems created in the operation of all the social structures and services of the municipalities throughout the country. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about non-performing loans. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 2919/202/4-2-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding support for multiple families. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 2808/193/1-2-2016 question and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the case of small Melina in Venizelos Hospital of Heraklion.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-08-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First we will discuss the first with number 751/5-2016 topical question of the Second Athens Parliamentary Assembly of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charas Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the signing of the new international climate agreement. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Ioannis Tsironis. You have the floor, Mr. Kafantaris. You know the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Minister. As we know, in December, the new climate treaty was agreed at the UN Conference, the Paris Pact, which will replace the Kyoto Protocol, which has already expired. The importance of dealing with climate change, I think, is well known. We've been through it many times. I do not want to repeat them. The important thing from this decision is that there were a hundred and ninety-five countries which agreed, and of course the international community's attempt not to increase the temperature at the end of the century, through specific policies at all times, over two degrees of Celsius, and, if possible, to limit it to one-and-a-half. What I wanted to say to the question today is that on 22 April in the United Nations this new climate agreement will be signed. Firstly, it is good that the USA and China, which are the major polluters, will be involved in this process. That's very important. It is also very important that in order for this Pact to have come into force, 55% of the countries that cover 55% of the world's emitted pollutants should be involved. But what I wanted to say, if you would like, and the question is: While we have the great polluters, the US and China, we have on the other hand and the recent announcement from India and Australia that they will be going to the UN, recently Switzerland, and the United Kingdom too, what the European Union is thinking about, what is going to do and what processes are there - that is the subject of the question at European Union level - on this particular issue of the presence in the United Nations and the signing of this agreement? As a country we which energy design in general do we have? And what development programme is there in this area? In other words, what programme is there, with regard to the part called energy, in order to address this top issue and, anyway, to limit emissions in our country and to go to another policy against the effects of climate change with a sign of development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-08-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-08-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Member, it is indeed a very topical issue, the issue of the signing of the Paris Agreement, which will take place on 22 April, in a few days' time, in New York. With regard to the first part of your question, what the European Union intends to do, I am pleased to inform the House that the European Union will be full in New York and as the European Union, but also as individual countries. We'll be there, too, Greece. I will represent the country and sign the Paris Agreement. In fact, let me remind you, because this is, of course, the typical part and the customary one, that the European Union, not only in Paris, belonged to the countries of the so-called 'high ambition', which we were pushing for as binding and ambitious an agreement as possible, but we have already been committed, before the agreement was ratified, for reductions and for adaptation to climate change. In particular, I would remind you that we are committed as the European Union for 2030 to a 40% reduction, while by 2020 it is 20%, to a 27% reduction, while, you know, it is 18% by 2020 - in fact, Greece has 20%, it has a more ambitious objective - and of course for energy savings of 27%, which was again 20%. So as the European Union, we are ahead. From that point on, of course, we have what comes from now on. Firstly, we are already discussing in the European Union the revision of a directive on the European Environment Emissions Trading System. Of course, there are other sectors, such as transport and agriculture. We are currently waiting for the Commission's proposal on RES, and at national level we already have, on the one hand, the new plan for RES, which has already been posted and, at the moment, is in public consultation on the future. A lot of people ask about the photovoltaics, winds, etc. That's something we posted. And of course, we intend to have the new National Energy Council that will define the new energy policy. Finally, today we will post the draft strategy for adaptation to climate change, so that we can be ready. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. We call for an important 'IP LIFE' programme that the regions will take, so that we can be as ready as possible for adaptation, because it is not only prevention but also adaptation. Because regardless of the fact that tomorrow we stopped eating fossil fuels, climate change will have consequences and we must be ready for that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-08-S1-commons.u7	Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for three minutes to give a second answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-08-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to say that measures must be taken immediately. There are also measures to sign this agreement, as we have said before, since 55% of the countries that emit 55% of the emissions of pollutants. That is why the International Meteorology Organisation, as well as the experts and scientific bodies and the global scientific community in general, warns. It is a good thing that we have heard from the Minister that the European Union will participate on 22 April. Three days ago I was in The Hague, the Interparliamentary Meeting of the Member States responsible for energy in the European Union, on a two-day energy related week ago. The positions and views which have been heard were, of course, in the logic of tackling climate change and in the new policies to be implemented, and we have given particular importance to what we call a 'cyclical economy'. This is an area that we should see seriously here in our country, how it will go ahead and how it will grow. And with regard to this - and I am saying that what the Minister said - is a pleasant question to the Commissioner responsible for Energy, Sökovic, in relation to what the European Union will do - because it was heard by other colleagues from other parliaments - the answer on Sunday was that each country must have an ambitious plan and implement specific policies. Of course, that is where the views of countries, such as Poland, have been heard in relation to the issues of emissions and the limitation of carbon burning, etc., as have some other points of view. I therefore consider what the Minister said today to be important. I would say that energy policy must now be driven - and steps have been taken and steps taken - into another model. And I tell you that especially at this meeting in The Hague three, four were the main issues. First of all, it was energy security. Okay, as far as that is concerned. The second important thing was the penetration of the RES, which is very crucial for our country. Based on the 2013 figures, our country was 15%. The target is 18%, but we've put 20%, as you said, Minister. And that's important. It is also about the policies on buildings, energy saving and reducing the consumption of energy in transport and the use of alternative fuels, such as biogases, advanced biofuels, synthetic fuels, etc. Of course, this is certainly about what I said before, namely the development of the 'cyclical economy' and the rational management of waste. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One point I would like to say to hear, because I personally was surprised: in some of the projections that took place at this meeting in The Hague, it was mentioned in relation to global greenhouse gas emissions, China - America, as we know, major polluters and third countries, the management of greenhouse gas emissions at global level. And this is a very serious issue, which, of course, has something to do with what we call a 'cyclical economy', etc. I shall therefore wish - and on the basis of what the Minister has said recently - that the European Union will overcome its internal objections and actually participate in the United Nations on 22 April in this special event of signing the new climate treaty, we would say in the 21st century. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-08-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-08-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. I think that on the basis of what Mrs Kafantaris said, we need to focus above all on what we as a country will do and dedicate my answer and my second language to it. First of all, it is absolutely right that the circular economy is a major pillar for the rehabilitation of fossil fuels, because very significant percentage of resources, such as plastic bags, such as packaging, such as all the plastics we use, come from oil. So these items the more often we use them, the less oil mining we need. Here, however, we know that in the first half of the year, since January - last year, the previous government - we have drawn up the new National Waste Management Plan, which sets very ambitious and binding guidelines in this area. It's a matter of money now. I will highlight another crucial issue raised by the honourable Member, and I am referring specifically to the basic actions. We are very well aware that we currently have in Greece the power that the country is in need of around 6 to 9 gigawatts, installed power that is not dependent on oil and lignite, around 4.5 gigawatt renewable sources and 3 gigawatt from large hydroelectric power plants, which have some problems, but at least do not contribute to the greenhouse effect. So, theoretically, we have a good penetration. Nevertheless, we see that we do not have this infiltration at power level, because we quite simply know that these sources have an instability, with climate phenomena, with air, with the sun. We therefore need renewable actions such as biogas, biomass and geothermality. There we are very low and we have ambitious targets as a ministry there to bear weight, because they are sources that in Greece we have a huge strategic advantage. Let me remind you that even now in our cities, we burn the pruning or we take it to the dump. And that's an energy resource. Let me also remind you that at the moment when we are talking about RES, we are mostly talking about electricity. Electricity, however, only participates 27% in total energy consumption. In Greece we have huge expense, because we have very low penetration of transport electricity because we do not have railways, even the few we still have are diesel-driven, so that we have 52% of oil participation in energy. We are a country which per unit of GDP consumes a thousand four hundred barrels of oil, when Norway, which is a producer of oil, consumes under nine hundred. So here we have a splendid field of glory to make significant improvements. We have an ambitious plan, we are obliged to go too far for the good of our country and to get rid of fuels that are not ours at the bottom and buy them very expensively from abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-08-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To put the resolution on page 22]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-three students and students and three educational sessions from the Lower Poroi High School and High School of Livadia Serres, which is hosted in Athens under an educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Today is a day of parliamentary scrutiny, like every Friday. In other words, questions are being asked to ministers. Today, unfortunately, because of the blockade of Ministers, there is no presence, so you won't be watching much. At this point I would like to inform you that the Supreme Administrative of Public Administrators' Associations has tabled a resolution requiring the withdrawal of the insurance bill that the Government is promoting for a vote in this House. The resolution, for the time economy, is tabled in the Minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-08-S1-commons.u12	Also, New Democracy MP Karditsa Konstantinos Tsiaras seeks permission to leave abroad from Friday 8 April 2016 until Monday 11 April 2016, because he will go to Alexandria, Egypt for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-08-S1-commons.u13	The House approved the requested permission. I should like to inform you that the question scheduled to be debated, the fourth under number 747/5-2016, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the global outshore scandal - tax evasion will not be discussed due to the sudden impediment of the Member. So, Mr. Alexiadis, you can leave. Due to the obstruction of the Minister of Rural Development and Food Mr.Evangelos Apostolos - a workload - the first question under number 753/5-2016 is not discussed with regard to the first question by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arahovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payments of commitments entered into by the Programme for Rural Development (PAA) 2007-2013. For the same reason, the fourth question under number 750/5-2016 is not discussed at the time of the first question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of the balance of subsidies to producers in the country. Also because of the obstruction of Deputy Minister of Migration Policy Mr.Ioannis Mousala - health reasons - the second is not discussed under number 740/4-4-2016 - a topical question from the First Vice-President of Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the uncontrolled action of NGOs in the country. Due to an impediment - committed obligations - of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr.Theodorou Dricassas, the third is not discussed with number 749/5-2016. The first question of the Minister of Shipping and the People's Liberation - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the establishment of an Academy of Port Body. Due to the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr.Aristides Baltas, who will be abroad, is not discussing the fifth under No 754/5-2016 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, on the increase of tickets in the archaeological sites and museums of Greece. Also, for the same reason, the sixth question is not discussed under number 744/4-2016. First question from the MP Larisi of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the exclusion of the Greek spirit from the Athens-Epidavros Festival. Due to the impediment of the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism Mr.Georgeos Stathakis - workload - the second under number 741/4-2016 is not being discussed with regard to the financing of the "SPA 2007-2013" projects in the new Republic of Athens, Mr. Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism. Finally, there is no discussion of the third with number 745/4-2016 topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on non-performing loans. The topical and urgent debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance was then concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-04-08-S1-commons.u14	With the agreement of the House at 10.30 p.m., the sitting is closed for Monday, April 11 at 18.00, on the subject of the proceedings of the House: (a) legislative work and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
