ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue discussion on the articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Greek Institute for Research and Innovation and other provisions". At its meeting on 17 October the bill was discussed and passed at the outset. Today's session will discuss the articles and amendments of the bill as one unity. The procedure will be as follows: the rapporteurs and the special speakers will first speak on the articles and amendments, then the remaining speakers on the principle, who will also speak on the articles and amendments and then take the floor on the lists of speakers on the articles and amendments today. The SYRIZA rapporteur, therefore, has the floor. Please, Mr. Gavroglou, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is an opportunity to raise some misunderstandings that have been made by some of my fellow Members, mainly because we discussed the articles in detail and in detail in the Committee on Educational Affairs and there have been several improvements following proposals by Members of Parliament for counter-population. I would therefore like, on the occasion of these articles, to clarify some rather misunderstandings that have been made, because a number of colleagues have returned to the very same issues, although I thought they had been cleared up in the debate of the Committee on Morphic Affairs. First of all, there is a argument that says: 'Why can't GMO do all this?' It's the wrong question. It's the wrong emphasis. The EIF manages the NSRF and with its know-how and infrastructure will be the main support of the activities of the new institution. The new institution, however, has a multiplicity of policies. It has to implement policies related to the development of research guidelines and the acquisition of resources by other parties. Therefore, the institution has a distinct role. That is why we have said it and said it again that the model is looking forward to additional institutional functions and not to a centralised model, where there will be an institution which decides everything and which will be dispersed downwards. I would therefore ask that this question be answered, namely whether there is agreement on complementarity and distinctive roles or whether the proposal is an incredibly centralised model. Another point on which, I think, there has been a misunderstanding, if you like, is - and I say it in a kind way - the devaluation of the funding we have received from the European Investment Bank. In other words, you say: 'What do you do with the 180 million when you have over 1 billion and have not exploited it?' I think there is a misinformation here again. That's not true. In other words, the procedures have already begun, because a great deal had to be done to enable the 1 billion to be activated. Many colleagues are very experienced and you know that it is not so simple to start the notices on these programmes. Now, however, they've already begun. The 180 million must be seen plus the 60 million that the government has committed itself to registering in the state budget. Thus, it also expresses the desire to involve itself in funding - at least in the original - of this institution. There is something that some Consensus Members have pointed out positively. Some of you got a little stung up to point it out. And you got humiliated, because I think you don't understand the huge importance. The huge importance is that for the first time social and humanitarian sciences are entering as distinct scientific units. They don't enter together, but they enter separately, because they're separate fields of knowledge, they're not fields of knowledge they identify. Of course, interdisciplinary, of course, too many things are common, etc., but we need to see that they are distinct fields. We see this very much in the explanatory memorandum, but also in specific articles, and I think that we should all welcome it, regardless of whether we are going to vote on these articles or not. Two other issues that have come and come back - which I understand are coming, because the surrounding atmosphere in society is unfortunately picking up - are the following. What do I mean? Enhance transparency, not a "cost" for your people to get it, etc. I am obviously saying this in a marginally unacceptable way, so that we can reach agreement. Whatever laws may be passed, whatever rules may enter, unless there is an academic morale in such institutions, nothing will be done. So long, if you read the laws and circulars, etc., they're full of strict rules. So this particular institution, as the Minister does not get tired of saying it, has this dimension of "from below", that is, the universities and the TEIs choose the people who will represent them at the general meeting etc. This guarantees democratic rules, but it also guarantees something else, that we always raise this issue of academic ethos. Because it is an instrument whose democratic function is guaranteed, I think this is important in terms of the inspiration of academics to re-activate themselves. Because we know very well, those of us who are dealing with such things, that there is a disappointment of these people - regardless of ideological and political direction - and these people do not want to get involved in the commons. So here, I think there is an attempt to redefined this role. The issue of recompense has been raised. The issue of recompense is a huge mistake to see it so mechanically, "we invest 200 million, to see when we get it back". This is not the way to talk about the reciprocity of such projects. Compensation is long-term and may not be quantified. Compensation, when you have to do with procedures that strengthen social goods, the public good, is not measurable. Of course, if healthy businesses enter and use the results, etc., there can be seen more quantifiable compensation. But let us look at the social dimension, let us look at the political dimension, and above all let us see the fact that new opportunities are now available for young scientists. Because we are talking about Brain Drain and I think that many - I am not all saying - do not know what this is about. The fact that Greek scientists go abroad and have great demand means that some things have learned from somewhere. The point is they mustn't go hunted. The point is to go as a choice, to have choices here, to have choices abroad, to a united Europe and to secure this mobility and, as the Minister says again, 'not only from here, but also from Europe to us'. We therefore believe that all these reasons create an institutional framework that conceals a particularly promotional research culture, a culture of knowledge production for the society as a whole. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In this sense, I call on colleagues - obviously, on the basis of their consciences and their political priorities - to see whether or not they will vote for it - at least to raise problems which can improve them and not to'stick' things that have either been solved in the past or solved by the bill itself, which - in our opinion - is a first and extremely bold and solid step towards the creation of the single area of research and training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Gavroglou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and students and three school attendants from the 27th and 30th Primary School of Acharnon. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I also have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: 'Social and Solidarity Economics and Development of its institutions and other provisions'. We continue with the rapporteur from the New Democracy, Mr Maria Antonio. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President, although eight minutes for the articles and for the amendments it is a little time. Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday's debate on the bill in plenary, there has been no SYRIZA's colleague - and I must say it - who has not dealt with me, the rapporteur for the New Democracy. You have even dealt with my topnote, but you have not given me any answers to the questions I asked you, ladies and gentlemen. And that's what you know why? Because I've shown you what your plan is. I showed you the truth and the truth hurts when you, in fact, get addicted to lying. Let many of SYRIZA's colleagues go to the Step of the House, considering that they are in school, university, and taught us what research is! Here, ladies and gentlemen, it is a Parliament. We are at the temple of democracy and you will hear - whether you like it or not - the truth. Once again listening to the Minister in his position yesterday in plenary, I found that nothing changed in relation to what he said in committee. He tried to convince us that with the 180m euros of EIB lending he would give a solution to Brain Drain. To convince us, he used data for the period 2009-2014. Of this, what did we see? We have found that young scientists either having a postgraduate degree or having a doctorate, Minister, migrate because they do not find a job, not because they cannot do a postdoctor. After all, in the current period alone, Minister, from the ESDP - you know that very well - there is a budget of EUR 142 million for doctors, postdoctorals, depending on what you will do from the ELIDEH. You also mentioned yesterday what opposition will say to the four thousand favoured by the ELIDEEC. So, on the one hand, you are actually saying that you have arranged where funding is going. Isn't that what you're saying? So what do we want after the general conventions and legal persons? You've set them up beforehand. On the other hand, you are not telling us, Minister, after three years of what will happen to these four thousand people who will benefit from the programmes, except that they will be your hostages with the prospect of 'you know, don't worry, we will get another loan'. Minister, you perpetuate the old-fashioned mentality that holds you. I shall now refer to what Mr Haritsis said, which you brought him here to defend you, on the point that you did not absorb 1 euro from the new programming period, and on what I have submitted to you as a question about the absorption of the ESRB that is only 69%. So Mr. Harristis told us that absorption in 2015 on the research track was 50% and now it has reached 90%. Where did he see it written? Are there anything he told us? I'm going to give you the official SGET data, the NSAK, showing that the absorption of the NSA, the previous programme, reaches 69%. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Antoniou, presents for the minutes the above figures, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] However, the most important thing that you do not care about, and you did not say a word, is that since the new current programming period you have not absorbed 1 euro of about 1,200,000 euros. Let's go to the articles now. Article 1(2) in particular states that the institution which is set up belongs to the wider - you say - public sector, but nowhere mentions the institutional framework, in particular Article 51 of Law 1892/90, which defines the wider public sector. You don't mention it. It also raises questions in the same paragraph that the institution will operate - you say - in accordance with the private-economy rules. Do you know what you're creating? Do you understand that? Will there be any derogations from private legal persons, Minister? You have not answered the committees either. Already private individuals have an institutional framework, and especially when they manage public money, they also have limitations, Minister, and quite important. You also did not reply to us why you removed from the same paragraph that the institution will have administrative and financial autonomy. You also had it in your draft law in consultation and in the explanatory statement, but you removed it. You didn't answer why you removed it. You did it probably because you do not want it to be administrative or financially self-sufficient. In Article 2, as I mentioned at the outset, the objectives of the Foundation are entirely identical to those of the GET. The House's Scientific Service, which says it needs clarification, is also in the same direction, and the framework for the simultaneous operation and cooperation of the EMI with the DGT should be laid down more clearly. A characteristic example, ladies and gentlemen, of overlapping competences is the purchase of research equipment, which has been a programme in the past from the GDR. In Article 3, please indicate the funds of the institution. Apart from the loan contract with the EIB, there is in fact no provision for how to ensure the future financing of the institution. Also, Minister, you do not enter the budget code of the Ministry of Education to register the amount of the loan. Is there going to be a change, a reform of the budget? I asked you again in the committees. You didn't answer us. In Article 4(6), as in Article 5(1), we find some of your advantages. Our parliamentary representative has said so too. By your decision you designate the auditors who carry out the audit of the financial management of the institution. However, you will also be allocated the funding every year by your own decision, the EUR 4,000. You said so, you showed up anyway. At this point you tried to gold out the pill by making a legislative improvement with which it will decide - it says - on a proposal, not by a recommendation. But have you still not answered us, Minister, to the question: does it require a ministerial decision on the allocation of the funds of the institution? Why doesn't the scientific board responsible for the administration allocate the resources? In Article 7, the introduction of the general meeting as an institution is primarily a neo-collection. We denounced it. You brought me legal. You put "X" on it, but you brought new legislation that you also change if it is excellence, if it has the same program. You make them, cut them, sew them depending on how it suits you to be the general assembly. In Article 8, which is in fact the institution's board of directors, we have another neology that can cause third parties in terms of the competence and authority to manage the institution concerned. With regard to Article 9, which refers to the director of the institution, we do not know his fee, while you say he will be provided with a CFD. There are so many things I have to say and there is so little time. The lack of independence of the members of the institution, as well as of the ministerial nature, is also apparent from Articles 11 and 13. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I imagine, Mr President, that you will give me one more minute. Article 12 provides, as you say, for the adoption of the rules of procedure. And the Scientific Committee of Parliament comes in and tells you that it does not become an Agency with a CSR and that it probably wants a presidential decree. This is another bad example of bad lawmaking. As far as the inclusion of Mr Vernardakis' amendment is concerned, we have said again that it is not possible to know how much cleanliness all the public costs. There is no provision from the General Accounting Office of the State. We are positive about the Ministry of Education's amendment as regards distinguished athletes. Finally, I would particularly like to talk about the amendment under number 710 and a special 88 on 'DUTSCHE TELEKOM'. I imagine, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that you will read what you are going to vote on. It is stated that no modification, differentiation or resignation - if you read the General Accounting Office of the State - will require no further action for its validity. So it won't pass through the House. In conclusion, I should like to refer to our amendment, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that we tabled as a New Democracy and which essentially seeks to suspend first home auctions by the end of 2017 for public debts. It is an amendment that comes to a solution to the impossibility of the government to deal with the problem it has created. This is an amendment that will give a breath to thousands of our fellow citizens, at a time when the outstanding debts to the public exceed EUR 90 billion and those to the insurance funds of EUR 16 billion. The government must listen to the need of our fellow citizens. Here's the Rhodes, here's the fuck and the fuck! It was promised by the Prime Minister before the SYRIZA Congress. Now she's staying to see if she's going to apply it. We expect you to accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Antoniou. The reason is now the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Gregos, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to express our condolences and support to the family of the pilot who has lost his life so unfairly, but also for every Greek pilot who is losing his life. In the shadow of those who are going on in our country, and I am talking about confiscations, unemployment, over-taxation, crime, mainly because of illegal immigrants, as the related amendment you have tabled, about the economic disaster that leads the Greeks to suicides and, above all, about the shadow of the challenges of Islamistist Erdogan - which the Government and Accurate Opposition supports - we are again discussing a bill entitled 'and other provisions'. And to understand the one who listens to us, when the government brings a bill, puts a title and next door puts 'and other provisions' in order to pass some amendments that suit some ministers. As far as the amendments are concerned, some are now costly, such as the one for the supply of tax films and some other not. It is characteristic with the cleanliness of the public buildings and the rest, as noted in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. As far as the Greek Shipyards and the submarines amendment is concerned, there is a cost, but there is an overrun of 15 million for the construction of submarines. Costled is also the amendment which contains regulation of issues of the KESEN and the School of Sanctuary, to which Mr Kouzilos will refer. At this point, I would like to say once again that the remarks made by the very competent bodies - and I am talking about the Association of Greek Investigators - are a good start to amending the provisions of the draft law, for which we have already said in yesterday's debate that we are not going to vote for the reasons we mentioned in detail. Also, since yesterday's development of the speeches in the House, it has been clear that any institution of an institution, even like this one and under the conditions that you are enacting, for loans charged to the budget, for a body that not only supervises but also appoints the Minister, for funds distributed by him instead of the institutions of the institution, could have some usefulness if it were to develop a healthy relationship with the market, that is to say, with the companies and organizations that are hosting researchers and technology in Greece. Nor is that possible with the structures it has adopted. And to be more specific. A simple reading of the articles in the structure of the institution in question is in a position to convince even the most well-advanced of the government's real intention. Even in any legislative improvements, which are supposed to be re-examined on the basis of the comments made to the committee, the general meeting continues to be set up by decision of the Minister, Article 7(3). What assurances of objectivity can the appointment of members by the Minister provide, on what criteria will the Minister choose, in accordance with the allegedly improved wording of Article 7(1), the renowned personalities that have been distinguished for their work and experience in the field of research, when there is no objective criterion for this choice? Why is the general meeting, which we have seen, chosen by the Minister, also to select in turn the members of the Scientific Council, as defined in paragraph 10 of that Article? This is how a fully controlled organisation is achieved, which has absolutely nothing to do with its respective externalities, where the State simply retains a supervisory relationship, without defining the members and not conferring powers. It is no accident, therefore, that the assessors, in assessing proposals and candidates for funding, appoints them by the Scientific Council, whose members are defined by the General Assembly, Article 7(10). The General Assembly, which is supposed to guarantee the independence of the institution and the fulfilment of its mission, shall immediately accept the interventions of the Minister responsible for the General Assembly, Article 7(3)(b). In fact, at its first meeting, the members of the General Assembly shall be appointed for a two-year term on the basis of the draw result obtained at the first meeting of the institution, Article 7(5). Can anyone easily believe that these procedures will be done impartially and with legal certainty, under the leadership of an ideological minister? Clearly not. I would say 'any minister'. The only retreat of the government in relation to the first project that it brought to the committee, which, of course, is neither important - as we said yesterday - nor changes the way it is considering imposing its party army in the field of research, was this: The staff of the institution are not seconded directly by a decision of the Minister, but following a call for expressions of interest published on the institution's website in accordance with Article 10(3). It is obvious that this call for expressions of interest is absolutely irrelevant in the designs of an ideological government. It will simply be the alibi, so that the appointments and secondments of the two days can be made with legality, without changing anything in substance. As already emerges from the first article of the bill, the institution will be part of the wider public sector while operating under the rules of the private economy. On the one hand, it will be directly responsible for the Minister for Education, who will not only supervise, but will also have the right to object to the decisions of his institutions and, on the other, will have the right to distribute funding, which is managed in a transparent manner, both in terms of his aims and the result. In fact, from the full view of the provisions of the bill, you do not seem to be interested in the evaluation of the research programmes that have been carried out, as all kinds of assessments are missing, obviously, because your Government is opposed to excellence, as Minister Baltas has already said. But it is clear that in the rest of the countries, which you are supposed to compete with in research, these issues have been solved centuries ago by introducing the institution of evaluation at all levels of education and especially at research level. This is why the continued flow of scientific staff to the outside has not been interrupted, but has been intensified. Which scientist or career researcher can or is in the mood to do with party submarines or state trade unionists and your bureaucracy, when he will waste hours of research by promoting his science? What exactly is the possibility of making trade union financing companies and private research institutions, even from foreign countries, Article 1(2)? What does the possibility of funding scholarships of natural persons, regardless of their nationality and association with a specific educational establishment or research centre? These phrases prove, in our assessment, that you leave on purpose through general and vague formalities, a wide range of micro-policy with funds charged to the state budget to people or institutions of your choice, without any effective control over the management of these amounts. In Article 2, you state that the scientific fields referred to as the purpose of the institution are not harmonized, as noted by the Association of Greek Researchers, with the national research strategy. The Governing Body of the institution, in accordance with Article 7, which is the General Assembly, shall approve partnerships and cooperation with other bodies in the public and private sectors of the national and foreign sectors proposed. This results in the members appointed in one way or another by the executive to finance any of the partnerships or even foreign persons they want. In an alibi to the criteria of the special economy, and with the coating of the scientific authority, the government is attempting to manipulate the field of research and technology, and in an absolutely inconceivable and unnecessary manner, since it itself can achieve the same things that GSET can achieve, but which is lacking in resources. Article 8(2) of the second Article shall be repeated. We are talking about selecting the members of the Scientific Council from individuals who have been distinguished for their international work and experience in the relevant field, without mentioning specific stables, on which this participation will be based. What does the Minister have to do with setting up the Scientific Council by a decision published in the Official Journal of the Government? Why are you entrusting the political leadership with powers that are outside the authority, instead of letting the institution decide by means of its own rules of procedure for the homes? What do you want to achieve with such a suffocating intervention in the work of the institution, if not turn it into another political annex? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. Corresponding to Article 9, the director of the institution is appointed by a four-year term and could easily, if the government were to aim for the impartiality of the institution, to adopt a few months' term of office and then be elected in accordance with procedures to be laid down in the rules of procedure. Moreover, the staff of the institution are recruited and employed under contracts of indefinite duration, as you said either to rent work or work of private law, or after secondment by another public service or by another private person by decision of the Supervisory Minister, as you said yesterday. With these points, I think we have demonstrated in detail the real intentions of the government, as well as our opposition to the implementation and introduction of another party annex in the sensitive area of research and innovation. If you did intend to help the Greek scientists, you would do some completely different things, for which the Golden Dawn has tabled specific proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Grego. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates fifty-eight students and students and four teachers attendances from the 1st Koropi High School (B' Department). The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u9	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u10	One clarification I would like to make in order to avoid further, deliberate, unintentional confusion for the members of the general assembly. The members of the general meeting shall be proposed by the ‘owners’ of the ELIDEC. And the "owners" of ELIDEK are universities, TEI, research centres that participate in it, according to their research performance. It's over and out. They suggest, the Minister is typically making the decision. I say that very clearly. When we say that the Minister is formally making the decision, it does not mean that he decides and chooses. There are many other things I will mention later in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. The reason is now the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my support to the people of Ioannina and Corfu for the difficulties they face because of earthquakes. We all wish that people return to their homes and children in schools. The state must not immediately offer its help at all levels. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation will manage EUR 240 million - EUR 180 million from the European Investment Bank and EUR 60 million from the Greek State - which will be made available in the two years 2016-2018. This is essentially an intermediate management body for research funds. At the same time, our country has committed itself within the framework of the NRP 2014-2020 that procedures, such as the notices, the procedures for evaluating and monitoring programmes, should be transferred to third parties, of course not dependent on the government. Those bodies should, by the way they form, with the participation of the public and business operators, ensure transparency and integrity. Such bodies already exist and operate very satisfactorily, I would say. The establishment, however, of EIADEC, as a management body, could contribute to addressing fragmentation and inefficiency as well as to developing a research policy and managing the available resources, by restructuring rather than depreciating existing institutions, institutions with competence for research and innovation, such as GGEI and the ESREC, Regional Research Councils, etc. However, there are two issues I want to raise from the outset, which are: Firstly, the role of GETT, its continuity, its long experience, its skilled executives, and especially the important work it has done in research. All this should be supported and guaranteed. Secondly, what happens after the 2016-2018 period. And I'm talking about the ELIDEC, as the funding beyond the two-year period has no reference. This is a matter for all of us, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, as it was formed in its preparation in committees, consists of seventeen articles, which summarize: Establishment, name, registered office, supervision and legal nature of the institution. The objectives of research support, funding instruments and the definition of beneficiaries and trade unions shall be specified. The resources are also defined and described as a mixture of funding, the financial management of the institution, the preparation of an annual report, the procedure for the award, evaluation and financing of proposals is defined. They specialise in the scientific fields, in which the Foundation will primarily operate and define how the notices are drawn up. The institutions of the institution shall be defined, specify the role of the General Assembly and the Scientific Council. The role of the Scientific Board shall be recorded, which shall mean who shall be involved, such as prerequisites for the selection and term of office of its members. The term of office of the Director of the institution is defined as the manner in which the Director is chosen and the appointment of Deputy Directors. A description of the institution's potential for its service under fixedterm private law contracts, works contracts and secondments is given. The institution's internal rules of procedure shall be regulated. We have transitional provisions and issues of first-time operation of the institution. Here, in particular in Article 13, I would like your attention. Also, with regard to the bodies and internal rules governing the operation of research bodies - it concerns the awarding of tobacco tax strips to the Bank of Greece - we said 'yes' to Alexiadis. The contracts for the cleaning of public services buildings and independent authorities, legal persons governed by public law and private law and OTA are extended to 31/12/2017. Regarding the introduction of athletes to higher education, we agreed and agreed. We have 12 legal improvements. We in our proposals have made a substantial contribution to strengthening the legislation on transparency, integrity, accountability and evaluation. We have tried to ensure that all workers are recruited via ASP. In the distractions, we have an open invitation. To have the composition of the general meeting with the participation of the TEIs, the equal participation of the TEIs, as well as the general meeting and the scientific board, as well as the upgraded role of the Scientific Board and transparency in the selection of the Director. Minister, in the original draft, and in particular in the transitional provisions, there were points which rightly raise concerns. Once again, we found the Ministry's attempt to create a control body with photographic interventions. So far we have seen it in the positions of the presidents and councils of various bodies that you are supervising. The state of the "logues" is not better when it is directed with left-wing children. It's the same vicious and inefficient, because that's how a party state is being created. Yesterday there was a report of the parties' finances. The President-in-Office made clear in his intervention and returned to the speaker from the Stepma. Because the last route of the loan to the Government for the 'SYRIZA CHANNEL' is very fresh and it is therefore good to be careful in this Chamber. The mud in the fan does not favour anyone, it does not stop the air of frustration, which the worker, the professional, the wager, the pensioner, the farmer and the student are breathing every day. He said at some point the Prime Minister 'you do not like it'. Let me agree with him. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also told the committee that the debate on the draft law of the ELIDEC can find a place for a wider meeting and consensus, as long as the Minister does not bring any changes at the last minute. The 'Cugie', of course, avoided it by the withdrawal of the black amendment to the channels. It seems that Minister Pappas quickly wants the money from the permits to support the resurgence of Brain Drain. But the bourgeoisie goes back to the Ministry of Education's amendments, with no amendments to the draft law on research. Once again, we are witnessing, I would say, the seriousness with which the Minister does not deal with dialogue, as he must, especially when it comes to translating and dealing with relationships and regulations for the EDPS. Is it possible to vote with this bill on Greek-language education and to "vote" on the next and others to support today, to open up translation issues, while in a few days' time the deadline for applications has already expired after the extension you have given, to cancel the proposals of the Chairman of the Dialogue Committee with the well-known "pads" of the former trade union revolution, saying, in fact, that "the proposals of Mr Liakou if they were to be implemented would lead to the dismantling of the positive changes that have taken place over the last two years"? We therefore want to participate in a process that is clear, transparent and transparent and not in a process of carelessness and feasibility, with 'foot' amendments. The social media have been overwhelmed by an amendment tabled by Mr Papachristopoulos. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, can I have some time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u13	I'll give you the time from your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the retraining of teachers is a major one, and I would say that it is important for the quality of education, for the academic, professional and scientific development of the teacher. The PASOK government is proud of Law 2327/1995, which voted for retraining, enabled all teachers, nurses and teachers to become better trained. We in the Committee on Dialogue are the first to raise the question of the retraining and training of teachers, with a framework of modern, adapted to the needs of the new programmes, intercultural education and, in particular, special education. That is why we think that a substantial dialogue should be initiated on all of this, and that is where we should look again at the question of retraining, the subject of its operation and its mobilisation. So as far as the amendment tabled - I do not know whether the Minister will accept it - but I would like to see what is coming before the choices made by the school advisors. What we would expect today with an amendment is to restore the injustice of Mr.4327/2015, where you effectively removed the teaching service from the graduates of post-training, as you also removed the teaching service from the administration officials in a provocative and completely photographic way. You have punished thousands of teachers and kindergartens who have studied in teaching and have effectively deprived them of the right to choose, and you are talking today about upgrading their qualifications. The hypocrisy I think she finds her etymology here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a clarification so that there is no continuity in the misunderstandings. The issue of foreign trade unions raises, as I understand it, one issue. The intention was that there should be cooperation, that the system should be open. However, because there is the question of misunderstandings, from what I understand from the speakers, what will happen is to remove the words 'the alien'. The measures already in force are now being taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. We proceed with the next special speaker, Mr. Tassos, from the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Tasso, you have eight minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. From the debate that has taken place so far, an effort has been made on the part of the Government to convince that research as a social asset and research as a commodity is compatible, that one does not exclude the other. It was also said by the majority rapporteur, Mr Gavroglou, that any reinforcement of research as a social asset is not contrary to the research carried out on businesses, which is, of course, well-known to be profit-making. We say that it is clear that these two concepts are not compatible. It is not possible for research as a social asset to be compatible with research as a commodity. They are not compatible, because the second, the commodity research is based on the capitalist system and the exploitive relationships it involves. The investigation, as an accelerator of the profitability of monopolies and business groups, is not the same as the investigation as a catalyst to meet social needs. So these two are not compatible. The second, which is equally important, is that this bill serves only research as a commodity. Because, it has been said, it is clearly said by the first article, that the Hellenic Foundation for Research and Innovation operates in accordance with the rules of the private economy. And private economy rules mean capital profitability and nothing else. So that's what he wants to do with this bill. He wants to put research into the profitability of business groups and wants to do so with young and virtuous scientists, who, with the scholarships and the funds he guarantees for them, will really be able to focus, but not on doing the basic research and satisfying their curiosity. That's not compatible. The chapter today does not just give money to the other person to do the research without any other goal. And when we say target, we mean getting this research quickly into capitalist, of course, production. This is therefore the aim of the articles of this bill. Article 1, as we have said, sets out the institutional framework within which it is moving. The most important of these is that this institution, the ELIDEK, operates under the rules of the private economy. Article 2 describes how it will support business activity, which is called a national strategy for research and innovation. In other words, the sectors where business groups and large capital choose as areas of interest for them are also becoming a national strategy, in the sense that what is of benefit to GENERAL MOTORS also contributes to America and, in this case, to Greece. Article 3 refers to the resources of the institution: loans, private financing, etc. And it is well known that this institution is starting with borrowers. Indeed, there is no immediate provision for what will happen when this three-year loan period expires. What's gonna happen? Will he find such resources? Where will he find them? How many are going to be? Article 4 refers to financial management. Indeed, what it describes as financial management is positive in that it must be. But what purpose is this 'user' financial management? The capital wants to do this, as economically as possible, at the least cost. And a prerequisite for that is, of course, that there should be good management so that money does not go away, which is not compulsory for them to leave. Article 5 describes the way in which projects are proclamation and evaluation of proposals, and here they are the ones that measure rather than the procedure, which is reasonable. However, Article 5(1) speaks of an annual allocation of funds per action category and scope, which necessitates the possibility of planning perspectives. Because, indeed, the design does not take place in a long-term horizon. It is based on the resources, which are available each time, and there is a distribution of resources, because real planning, in order to meet the needs of society, in the context of capitalism, cannot be done. Because companies choose the fields each time, depending on where they estimate they will be highly profitable, this design does not have a long horizon. It adjusts, seeing and doing. The same does, of course, the bill. Article 7 seeks to cover, with a pretext of independence, the functioning of the institution and to distinguish the functions of the Scientific Council and the General Assembly. And that, of course, is a practicable one, but it cannot escape from what the institutions are serving or from whom they manage and to what purpose the respective institutions of universities and research institutions and also from what the Minister is able to intervene directly. Moreover, Article 6(10) (b) regulates partnerships with other private and public bodies. This is again - let us say this - a reasonable function, however, which serves this particular purpose. Article 8 confers a central role on the promotion of business. In other words, the whole bill is based on this logic, on how business will be served. In this sense, another important element is the elastic working relationship, which retains it. And that is exactly what we have said from the outset that capital wants to make this research as quickly and efficiently as possible and as cheaply as possible so that researchers who will make the research can be manipulated. And as a means of doing this, elastic relations and the rules of procedure which regulate the operation in this context are being used. I now come to some amendments. It is the amendment that has been incorporated as Article 15 concerning tobacco films. That is an amendment to the logic of indirect taxes. An important amendment is the amendment that has now been made to Article 16, which refers to the extension of the clearers' contracts. As you know, we have tabled an amendment of our own and we insist on it. We want everyone's contracts to be extended, including dominators, and their contracts to be converted into indefinite time. Finally, there is the amendment that has been incorporated as Article 17 concerning the import of athletes who take some extra molecules. We have, of course, voted against the bill in principle and we will also vote against most of the articles, except for some who have a positive sign and to which we shall vote'residents'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr Tassos. The reason for the party's special speaker is Potami, Mr. Mavrotas, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. We talked yesterday about the principle of the bill. Today I am going to go directly to the articles and amendments, starting with Article 2, concerning the purpose. In paragraph 1(c), it basically says that it finances the purchase of research equipment on the basis of strategic planning. We believe that this proposal is incomplete, because it does not say which strategic planning: the university, the research centre, the institution or the ESTAK, the National Research Strategy for Technological Development and Innovation, as the contract, which we have signed on page 36(2), is not in line with the proposal. What we also said to the committee is that in the objectives we should also include, rather, the promotion of synergies between institutions, thus aiming at the single area of higher education and research. Let's go to Article 3 for resources. We have also made a concrete proposal to the committees here. In the event that an investigation has been financed by the outlet and results in the production of an innovative product, provision should be made for the refund of a percentage to be derived from the exploitation of that product or from patents, with Royalties and so on. This amount will be a resource of the institution and will be used in new notices. Furthermore, Article 3 states that the private sector may participate in resources with various donations, grants, grants, etc. Perhaps it would be advisable to be able to participate in the financing of targeted notices, covering very specific needs, such as a study of a product production or anything else. This request will be addressed to the Scientific Council, which will also decide the terms of the relevant notice, while the funding will be transferred to the resources of the institution and, after the evaluation process, to the recipient researchers. In Article 5 on notices, we believe that a regularity should be sought - and the Minister said yesterday - a standard month of notices per type of notice so that researchers know when to wait for what is to be incorporated into the rules. In Article 10, which concerns staff, the explanatory memorandum states that the three-member evaluation committee is to be set up by the Scientific Council. The bill says he's appointed by the director. I imagine the latter will be the case. Fifteen permanent posts are also indicated in the contract. The question is whether this will ultimately be the number of permanent staff for the institution. In Article 12, which refers to the rules of procedure, it says that this will be adopted by a joint ministerial decision of the Ministries of Home Affairs, Finance and Education. Here there is a reflection in Parliament's Scientific Office report whether the Rules of Procedure should be adopted by a joint Ministerial Decision or by a Presidential Decree, as stated in the report of the Parliament's Scientific Service. The question is whether the EMI will also have a say in the drafting of the rules of procedure. Article 17 - it was an amendment to the Committee on Education, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport that was added to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. We are positive about increasing the rate from 3% to 4.5%. It may seem to some that this 1.5% difference is insignificant, but the possibility of having more positions to claim the HEIs positively contributes to promoting the involvement of children with sport. A few days ago we welcomed Olympians and Paralympians in the House, and what we heard they say is that we need to give more motivation to children to deal with sport. As Potami, when the sports bill comes, we will also have a specific proposal on how to molecule and students so that no misuse takes place, misuse of the privileges that we have seen before. To benefit those who really deserve and not a number of passive, retarded athletes, but who have the right 'cuts'. As far as the amendments are concerned, we tabled number 694/78, which concerns peers, namely pensioners, and it has to do with Article 69 of the recent research law. With the amendment, we are essentially calling for the possibility of peers and scientists being responsible for research programmes, when according to the same law, Law No.4386/2016, which was passed in May, even external partners with a doctorate can be scientifically responsible for programmes. We believe that in this way we will not lose an experienced scientific potential, which is very important in assessing the proposals. By participating in the proposals, they maximise the chances of winning a research project, because they are researchers, they are scientists with rich curriculum and related research work and experience. As we see from abroad a scientist of sixty-seven years old is in the picnic of his career. And that is why, abroad, they are very rarely retired. We go to the conferences and see them there. We in the provision of Article 69, which existed, are essentially decommissioning them. It is a little hypocrisy, because we say that peers can participate in undergraduate courses, as was recently passed - they have already participated in postgraduate courses - but they cannot be major researchers in research programmes. Do we want them to be trained, but not scientifically? We thus end up in situations where the peer professor is essentially the scientific expert and has someone else formally played the role of the scientific officer in order to overcome the various bureaucratic obstacles. We hope that this amendment will be accepted by the Minister or the Minister. I shall conclude with one last amendment. It is the amendment with a general number 700 and a special number 83 of the Ministry of Education, which abolishes the possibility of the members of the EDPS, laboratory and teaching staff of universities, namely, to develop into lecturers, in personal positions, in closed procedures. This was the famous legislative improvement of the twenty-one-one-line line, which had entered a late amendment, and Mr. Friends actually went through a mistake about a month ago in the Greek-language education bill, an unrelated provision, which was probably one of his counsellors, without even developing, not only in the committees, but also in the plenary. So I will not dwell so much on the substance of the amendment, but on the procedure in this tragic way of legislating and its results. When something is not being discussed on all sides, but we are playing hidden in the House on how it will go unnoticed, we are ending up with this sad and humiliating phenomenon, in my view, for Parliament, to vote and vote on provisions. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. Or as we have seen recently, they should enter and withdraw amendments. I mean, backwards. By the way, since we talked about the front - back because we had the Olympiacos - Panathinaikos derby in basketball last night, fewer front - they were back in the game yesterday than the government has done in its legislative work. Incidentally, there is a Nikos Pappas player in Panathinaikos, but he has not made any progress - back. So this puppy-like way of legislating must sometime stop. In Parliament's parliamentary procedures in particular, the purpose should not be to justify the means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-four students and two teachers and two teachers from the 6th Keratsini Municipal School and twenty-two students and one student attendant from Maraslio Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Papachristopoulos, a special speaker of the ANELs, has been given the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I say we get out a little bit. I want to remind you that many years ago when I was a student, one of my students told me that there was a lecture in the Polytechnic for Informatics. I'm not hiding from you that I've wronged him. I didn't go to that lecture. Then he was talking a great scientist, Vid Surf. We didn't know who he was then. He's the man who had joined Maryland's military base eight massive computers. The great computer revolution started with this man. A few years later, two Greeks, Nick Negruponde along with the late Michael Dertuzo made a revolution in the MIT with the internet, computers. And I would like here to remind those who have a weak memory that the publicity of the internet was established by these two Greeks. Bill Gates, the prologue he makes in a book, dedicates him to the late Michael Dertuzo. And they're still the people who, when Tim Burners Lee made a great, revolutionary discovery of the web and made the Internet accessible all over the planet, they're just handsomely hosted him at MIT, so we're today in the era of IT. I say all this because the words of innovation and research are identical, precisely with what happened at the time. He started a new era. And to bring it to today's, today's news - it may not be first, but it's news today - it's that it opened a "gate" to the police, where one really reads what one can do and what one can avoid, go get a certificate from the police or something that concerns him, doesn't even have to go there and eat time in the tails. I'm saying this because I don't want to get involved in the details of the articles. I want to believe and wish that this step will not develop in a bureaucratic process, which is to make some people comfortable - because I have heard this in here too - or I do not know what else. I belong to those who think that this step needs to be embraced. It's a revolutionary step that's too late to take place. As long as I can tell you that 0.96% of GDP, which has just grown up, is still a little bit. That four thousand new researchers will find a job is the last. I think we're starting a new era and we all have to embrace it with a lot of love and great respect. I would like, by the way, to say that electronic voting - what will mean innovation and research? - you know it's happening in most European Union countries. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that some strong politicians who did not come to the first vote, with the alchemys that took place in the Court of First Instance, became MPs. There was an implied party agreement where, without affecting the power of the parties, the empty crosses of a card, whose big party, were completed late in the evening, with the hours, to get the favoured party into Parliament. So I think it is also an opportunity, innovation and research to prove them in practice and not just in words. We must not be involved in procedural matters, that is to say, only in procedural matters. I would like to repeat, however, that a country which I will say again - was a province of the Soviet Union at that time - I have nothing, nor do I say critically, - is, today, the most advanced in terms of innovation after researching a country. And it's Estonia. What is happening in this small country, which began twenty-five years ago and is now a model, shows what it will say in practice. Again, for those who happened to be absent from this Chamber, that the businessman does not even have to have a home in a particular country to invest. In e-residency there is his home electronically and he can easily negotiate and do everything. Most importantly, VAT, tax evasion, false invoices, court decisions appear there. And with regard to what happened today, I saw it and it made me a terrible impression that the electronic gate opened up to the police, and I want to say a good one to those who thought about it. Well, let's talk about it. So this country showed what the road is. We have nothing but to bend with respect and much love. I don't know why, while most parties, regardless of whether they were collusion or opposition, embraced this initiative, there was a reservation in the New Democracy. I don't know how it explains. To object to certain articles, I understand that, but I think the bill is a step forward and we should see it with respect. We, the Independent Greeks, tabled an amendment. I don't want to go into details. I believe, however, that it is unfair for those who actually have a postgraduate degree and are not recognized almost academically. Because it's not a financial matter. I know that many times we don't want to see them coming under and there are some reactions. I would respectfully beg the Ministry of Education to see this amendment and, if it is fair, really to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. But I would like to ask, Mr Papachristopoulos, as regards what you said about the vote on Members' election, if there is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u26	E-government has also been proposed by your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u27	I would like to say: if it is just a rumour, or if there are complaints, court rulings on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, you are welcome to make this clarification. No, there's no complaint. I would like to tell you, however, that in the elections - not to say what, because the case will be photographed, and I do not want, very old, to be at least in the last 10 years - there has been one such thing... No, there's no complaint.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u29	I commented on this because there are always rumours about all of this and sometimes they are right and sometimes not.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u30	However, those who live in large constituencies think that I am very well understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u31	There were publications.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u32	Yes, too many publications. I believe that it is all over with the electronic vote which, if I remember correctly, the party to which you belong has proposed it. I have no objection at some point to look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u33	It is not against electronic voting that I am going to say, but it also wants to ensure that, as you know, electronic voting can abolish the confidentiality of the vote, subject to certain conditions. The electronic vote is certainly the vote of the future, but it also needs to be ensured, in order to ensure confidentiality of the vote. Mr Saridis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to insist today and again that what we are voting on is who and how the 240 million of them will be managed in the name of the Greek people, of which 180 loan money will be used to strengthen the research work of our young scientists, in an effort to curb the tragic phenomenon of Brain Drain. The most problematic point of today's bill is not the fact that we are again taking credit, but that we still do not know how to repay it. It's half the step, what we're doing today. After the adoption of the law under discussion, we will find ourselves in a post-mortem situation, awaiting the completion of today's first step, with the immediate start of parliamentary procedures, so that we can legislate on a framework for interconnecting the results of research with the productive sector. Today, we decide to give money we don't have, money we borrow, so our scientists can continue their research work in their homeland without being forced to settle down. That is why we in the Central Association, although we are very responsible for it, because we are talking about loans, which we do not know how we will return them, yesterday we voted in favour of this bill at first. The organized state must send the message to our doctors and postdoctors, who are thinking of unholying, that we have not abandoned them. It is necessary to give them somewhere to be caught, to believe again in the institutions and in the organized Greek state. It is therefore a requirement for every Greek family, and it is a strong social demand that we do something to stop this bleeding, keep our children here and turn back what children have left our country. I think that's what we're doing today. If nothing else, we have succeeded in agreeing to the obligation of all of us, regardless of party and ideological origin, to ensure that the country's scientific potential is able to stay in our Greece and continue here unintentionally, with great success their important work. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is not a solid step, as SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Gabrielo Gavroglou, described it. It's half. It's not a solid whole step. It will only be completed when we can with a new bill guaranteeing the Greek scientists what will happen with the results of their work and the innovative applications that will arise. Until then, no one can be reassured. We warn you that we will not accept as sustainable the plan to regain a loan in three years from now. That's not a way to go in loan. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately today's bill is also filled with pointless amendments, for which we must nevertheless be responsible. As regards Amendment No 688/75, which has been incorporated into the bill, on the award of tobacco tax strips to the Bank of Greece, it is a very good decision, which will give a strong impetus to the considerable effort of the control mechanisms responsible for combating the smuggling of tobacco products. Amendment No 689/76, which amends individual contracts for the cleanliness of public services buildings, the independent authorities, keeps us sceptical. Amendment No 696/80 on the regulation of the import of athletes into higher education, which concerns the consolidation of the rate of 4.5% of our distinguished athletes, finds us in agreement. We will see how we make them and places where they will practice at some point, because without coaching they will not even have the opportunity to distinguish themselves again. Amendment No 697/81 strengthens the Staff Training Centres of the Commercial Navy and the School of Sanctuary. We'll support her. Amendment No 698/82 provides for a 30-year increase in the number of posts of administrative and criminal justice judges. This amendment will put our Parliamentary spokesman, the respectful, the dear Mr Karras. In an effort there, which Greek justice is being put on the table, we must be very careful about what we are legislating in this Chamber. Amendment No 700/83 on the subject of student transfer, the EDPS and the TEIs is a clear proof of curiosity. We are voting for and we are 'vote' because some people do not know how to do their job properly. That is exactly what is happening here with this amendment. You were told by the Members of the River to the committees and you made fun of them when they told you that you do not know what you are doing. Here, today, this surprising night amendment that you had brought in two months ago, you are trying to correct it with a new amendment as badly written. We won't support her. We are voting against it. Amendment No 701/84 by the Ministry of National Defence is extremely necessary and we are voting in favour of it. And for anyone who's wondering, I'm telling you that this is the cost of having a neighbour of Turkey, who often very much forgets where they start and where they end their borders. So the Greek taxpayer has to pay the medicine for this amnesty that the Turks suffer from now on. Because many times they forget to such an extent that they spread and hand. Amendment No 709/87 gives the authorisation of the Ministers for Finance, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks to determine the procedure for the participation of the Greek State in the satisfaction of the creditors. What creditors? Where does the amendment mention what creditors? You're embarrassing us. We will not vote for this amendment. For Amendment No 710/88 to the Shareholder Agreement of the Greek State and of the 'DUTSCHE TELEKOM', one is the question: where will this money go? Are they going to go to debt, or are they going to swing around, like the money we got from television licenses, and we see them fund social programs, to the ambulances and the ELIDEK itself? I am referring to statements by government officials. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that here we are discussing and voting for an agreement on the future, with the back on the wall. Many such agreements have been signed by the Greek governments in the past. Most led to total failure and frustration of the Greeks. The Greek governments forgot that the debt bears a debt. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, Mr President. Only today, Minister, here in this House, is the Central Association voting. And the Central Association will closely monitor the outcome of this vote. Bring immediately what is needed to strengthen, complete and produce results. If there is genuine political support for the project, the use of research programmes will be a barrier to stirring up those who are interested in leaving and a attraction for those who want to return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I would like to ask a question on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u37	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u38	I would like to ask the Minister when he will tell us which parliamentary amendments he is accepting, so that we too can adopt them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u39	Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u40	It's for signature. They'll be announced soon as they get here. I'm waiting for them right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Amyras, are you asking why?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u43	I would like, as a parliamentary representative, to request some clarification from the Minister for an amendment that has already been accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u44	Yes, but this is not the time for the amendments yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u45	Then why's the bulletin presenting them? The clarifications may come, Mr President, after five hours...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u46	Yes, but we did not go into the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u47	In any case, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u48	If you want to ask the Minister something, as Mrs Kerameos has already said, you have the floor, but not to develop the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u49	No, I want to ask for clarification. May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u50	You may ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u51	I would like to ask myself about the amendment with the general number 710 and a special 88, namely the transfer of 5% of the shares held by the Greek State to OTE in TEAD. You are not the Commissioner responsible, Minister, but here I would like to ask you two clarifications to convey them to the relevant ministers. Three have signed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u52	Yeah, okay, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u53	It is very important, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u54	Yeah, but he's not the minister in charge right now. What should the Minister carry?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u55	Yeah, but what should we do? We have the texts here and we cannot wait. Is Mr. Chakalotos coming and what time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Chakalotos will be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u57	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u58	He'll be here any minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u59	In any case, let me clarify...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u60	Now that Mr. Fotakis is transferred to Mr. Tsakalotos, it's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u61	The government is there and the secretariat is there.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u62	But it's not right what you're asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, this is important. I want the Minister to hear...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u64	Yeah, but he's not the guy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u65	Because these questions may ultimately have a significance for whether or not to be accepted. Understand? I'd be done now. The questions and clarifications are very briefly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u66	Anyway, I'll give you a minute, not more.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u67	Sure. Thank you, Mr President. Here, as we have said, the 5% of the shares held by the Greek State in OTE is transferred to HIDE. The following clarification questions arise here, Mr Ministers. Firstly, we see here that the amendment says that, from now on, no modification, differentiation or resignation of the shareholders' agreement will henceforth require that it be ratified by law by Parliament. I mean, if this amendment is accepted, then it means that the OTE shareholders will be able to decide anything about a thousand or two different issues without bringing to Parliament a check on any new agreement. There is therefore a new Greek state agreement with German in the absentia of the Parliament. That is the clear question. The second is that since 5% of the 6%, held by the Greek State at OTE, will be transferred to the HSE under Law 3676/2008, it means that the Greek State loses the right to veto with regard to national security, the confidentiality of telecommunications, mergers, takeovers and dividends. So, Mr. Ministers, with this amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u68	You're welcome, Mr. Amyras. I'm sorry, but you can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u69	I shall conclude, Mr President. What does this amendment say? That he strips the Greek State from the veto, from his weapons against this agreement...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u70	You're welcome, Mr. Amyras. Please! It's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u71	Secondly, it puts the Greek Parliament aside...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u72	We said a minute. You don't keep going. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u73	............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u74	You're welcome. Mrs Vaki, you have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u75	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u76	You'll have him. Before I give you the floor, however, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House organises and operates, twenty-five students and students, as well as a trainer from the 7th Primary School of Alimos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, Mr Fotini Vakis, has the floor. For eight minutes, Mrs. Vakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u77	For 15 minutes we have agreed, Mr President, because I did not take the floor yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u78	You've got the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u79	It has been agreed and written in the Minutes when Mr Kaklamanis was chaired.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u80	So you'll talk a total of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u81	Fifteen minutes in total. I didn't take the floor yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u82	Good. We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the subject of today's debate, I owe some answers to my fellow Members' representatives from the other parties who spoke yesterday in the usual paramilitary and conspiracy theories that have been heard and appearing at the forefront whenever the government is close to the successful conclusion of a negotiation and is being claimed. So I heard the Qualified Opposition and other parties yesterday invoke the government for an amendment tabled on Friday night, but it was finally withdrawn. What, then, did this famous amendment say? It regulated the procedures for fines on channels that, possibly, attempt to broadcast without permission, included the termination of the operation of channels without authorisation, providing for stricter penalties for imprisonment even for the canals themselves for any infringements. The amendment has, however, been withdrawn. The reason? In order to attempt the formation of the PSE for the ninth time, exhausting all possible consensus margins. It takes courage, ladies and gentlemen, to invoke the PSE when you fortify its composition three times. He also wants to call himself the fiasco contest. The fiasco or institutional diversion - because we have heard this - was the twenty-seven years of piracy of a public constitutionally based good, such as information. Rhetoric the question: Should or should not be licensed to use frequencies when even a knob needs permission? But your greatest enthusiasm is black when the black in the ERT that left two thousand eight hundred people on the road bears your signature. Why did ERT shut down? You said this to us unregulatedly: to silence the SYRIZA pics who were working there, but also to grant the frequency range to a single contractor, which was DIGEA, i.e. the canals consortium, for 18 million euros, with a payment of 15 years. In other words, we had the sad first, the frequency provider and the client were the same person. You are grieving and applauding for the jobs. Were all these maritime-loans-survivors viable? And where was their survival unsubstantiated? The redundancies, the blocks, the circumvention of working hours? Because versatile lending and advertising injections have never reached workers. And we had a misfortune of blackmailing atomic contracts with reductions in pay and redundancies of those who refused to consent. Nor a voice for the two thousand eight hundred ERTs, for the eight hundred "ELEVERROTYPE" for the seven hundred "ALTER"! You spoke of opacity pouchs at the time! And those who today are outraged, then they were talking about lullaby trade unionists. Now the unpaid workers in the war against permits, but in the summer of 2013 the canalarchs themselves asked for a banning of the support strike for the public television workers and for the head of the strikers on a board. But you 'free market crusaders' should be aware that the free market does not mean an inconsistent and illegal market. In addition, no free market where it suits us, no card! We are free wherever it suits us, but not free and not unleashed political support for the 'family'. Tiny way? With rich loans to air cut off or as with a lot of nerve, unregulated, he confessed to the Committee of Inquiry, loans secured by political friends against communal exchanges that were no more than a guarantee of the pluralism of the information. Unless, ladies and gentlemen, we consider the journalism of the wig to be a journalism of the wig or the identification of journalism with Employers, unless we consider journalism to be a defendant on a morning-on-day show to be a professor. You defenders of the free market, who you see even the student as a client, deserve to pay for all public goods, but the businessman does not, and is not, profiting at the expense of the public interest. So here is Rhodes, ladies and gentlemen, at the Conference of Presidents on the PSE with a political will of consensus, to see who ultimately decides to do the public good. I'm just finishing up with that. I'm on my way to education. In the debates held in the House on education from the previous parliamentary term, it seems that battles in the field of ideas, although unblemished, sometimes go harder than those conducted in the battlefields. A term that has flooded our vocabulary since last year and became a term of strong controversy, showing two different visions of education, was the one of excellence that was abundantly stumbled by the Opposition, leaving the government for the schools of the minor effort and "Balta" in education. It would be a good opportunity to make the speeches on education a chance to renovate the term excellence. For us, then, excellence is the resistance to market courtesy of education, it is a school of quality and equality for all - even for those who believe in God, have another color of skin and speak another language - for those children who have lost homes and homes, for which your fellow racist mayors have been able to learn letters in the camps, so that they do not infect our own children and get malaria. I did not see you, ladies and gentlemen, voting for the inclusion of the refugees in the Greek schools. Greeks are the participants of Greek education! Excellency is to open the schools on time, without gaps and go to teacher even to the most distant village. Excellence, however, is also the dignity of the teacher who is not blackmailed by the schoolgirl and does not feel consumable and sacrificial. But you represent not only the canalarchs - to whom you are telling us that you will also return the money from the permits, taking them from the health and the education we gave them - but also the schoolmasters who have daily beating and devoting the dignity of the teacher. Appointment of sins to those involved in illegal and irregular degrees of study, to the "experiencers" who operated at the expense of good private schools. The sitter is composed of those he represents, what to do! This government has donated universities with collapsed curriculum programs, with five hundred attendances to universities, gave hundreds of grants for the first time after 2013, through the IKY, it strengthened candidate doctors and postdoctors through the NSRF, when your science and research strategy was Armageddon of the "ATHENA" project and higher education institutions were going silently in the dark of your own excellence - literally! - after they broke out without custody, without administrative staff, without cleanliness, with a complete failure to cover their operating costs. The Minister had then taken care of and now President of Officer Mitsotakis, to fire them all, with pain of soul and losing his sleep! Your national research strategy, which you are now inaugurating, was nonexistent. Where'd the whole S.H.I.E.L.D. go? Go to the pharanonic works and the big infrastructure that stayed for the purpose of your national contractors, friends, who deindustrialized a country and laundered money into tax havens. So let us stress that this is the first time that the European Investment Bank has financed research activity in Greece. The 240m euros lay the foundations of a national research strategy, according to the standards of the DFG or the NSE of America. The institutional and legal framework for the functioning of the EMI shall be governed by simple, flexible and transparent rules that facilitate and do not hinder, in accordance with some of the objections raised and formulated, the functioning of the existing Secretariat for Research and Technology, which shall specify and manage the resources of the ESRB, which for research and innovation amount to EUR 1,2020 billion in no intelligible amount. It is, however, important to stress that the ELIKE supports the humanitarian and social sciences which were strong from the existing funding structures, because knowledge is not only valued as a productive force or based on its response to the market. It's absolute and not a relative good, it's self-evident. A society without humanitarian and social studies is a society without values, without memory, without imagination, without criticism. The harsh austerity policies and the poverty of the Greek society have given the charismatic shot at an already undervalued, depreciated and underfunded research, for which you have never taken care of. During the past five years, each investigator has been confronted with a double exile. The boldest and most gifted took the street of the hostel. The evidence is revealing. In addition to a quarter of its national wealth, Greece lost between 2010 and 2013 a hundred and thirty-five thousand young scientists at the edge of their productive age. 70% of them had postgraduate and doctoral qualifications, which is the highest qualification. If the post-National Greece gave birth to the immigrant - unskilled worker or farmer of the pierced Greek countryside, the previous five years gave birth to the anthropotype of a new immigrant, that of the highly qualified scientist - researcher. I talked about dual exile, because those who chose to stay here and keep Thermopylae were self-sufficient, through labour wandering, through their scientific mutilation from the abundance of survival and the insecurity of prolonged unemployment. He was never able to bloom a researcher exiled and excluded from a solid and secure institutional academic environment. Research activity requires an institutional shell and a community. The poor, but intelligent researchers who create in the aftermath of adversity and sincere, naked survival, are a charming pattern of literature, but reality disguises. Research is not carried out in vacant but within long-term institutions, in discussion and interacting enthusiasm, at scientific conferences. Research is identical to research practice or, to formulate it otherwise, community-free research is oxymoral. And I'm ending up with this. The rapporteur for the Officerial Opposition yesterday implied some - let me express - loopholes that leave the legislative framework for money-sharing. I will not remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that politics is a matter of values and is a moral one without morality. I will only tell you to look for the spread of public money in your own bays, in lists, in Panama Papers and in offshore paradises, in hatreds, in 'SIEMENS', which made a junkie people live on instalments and credits. Don't try to find them for us! And with regard to your constant criticisms and insinuations of academic and research posts and posts of the Deputy Minister, I will not speak on behalf of the Minister, but on behalf of all the academic community, which I am a member of. I am going to speak on behalf of the academic community that you have swayed and bewildered, which in previous years you have called lazy and corrupt, a community that with hunger wages was struggling at night to keep the public university up and alive, zealously serving its academic function. You know, we're the only sector subject to so many evaluations. In evaluations with open, public consultation and based on our academic work produced. Because scripta manent, ladies and gentlemen, the written ones are left! And these research and academic institutions we want to bring back. Those who will walk on the basis of the public interest, transparency, merit and social accountability, on the basis of the Constitution of Epidaurus. "By them alone, the merits of each." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. The speech is given by the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, in support of the amendment with a general number of 700 and a special 83: "Additional arrangements for GIs", "Consolidation of the subjects of the Laboratory of Educational Personnel", "Adjustment of the themes of Educational Technology". Madam Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. In this amendment we are trying to regulate translation issues first. The proposed arrangement complements the provisions applicable to student relocations to enable the immediate and effective application of the relocations procedure. In particular, the proposed provision lays down 10% of the right to transfer Greek citizens to the Muslim minority in Thrace. Under the same provision, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs is authorised to regulate, by means of a decision, the subject matter of a translation of the specific categories of students entitled to relocation. Firstly, the children of victims of terrorism. Second, students with disabilities physical, mental or mental 67% and above certified by the Disability Certification Center. Thirdly, students detained in the country's penitentiaries and, fourthly, students of Cypriot origin and Greek citizens of the Muslim minority. The second article regulates the issues of laboratory teaching staff and the special educational staff of higher education institutions. The provision of Law 4415/2016, paragraphs (c) to (g) of Article 61 shall be withdrawn. It shall be withdrawn for reasons of non-implementation of the provision in Article. And I want to say here, because a lot has been said and some have insisted on it, it is better that an article should be withdrawn when the political leadership finds that it is inappropriate, inappropriate, rather than remaining in this way and that other problems arise. With this article we will come back when we consider all the conditions that both the Higher Education Institutions and the people concerned will agree. Let me add something else, Mr President. I found in the short space, which I am in this position, that there are very good laws, which are not applicable, never applied. It is better, then, when we see that a law cannot be applied or creates a problem, it can be re-examined. And that's not bad. People can make mistakes, have the courage to admit them. With the next article, we have a regulation on the issues of the Educational Technology Institutions, with a parliamentary amendment tabled at L.4386/2016, paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Article 77 of Law No.4310/2014 were received and these paragraphs are replaced. If you want me to develop them, I develop them. I will say very quickly that they were the ones that applied under the 2014 Act, they were received and returned to their place as they were. It concerns the Deputy Teachers of the TEIs whose post is converted into a personal position of Professor TEI, when the instructor who holds it completes the 65th year of his age and otherwise, within one month prior to his retirement. In paragraph 3, the members of the TEIs may, until 31 December 2016, be entitled to receive the remuneration of the following grade one month before their retirement. Paragraph 4 allows permanent TEI assistants who have evolved after 6 September 2011 at this stage, i.e. applications professors, to exceptionally have the right to request three years after their appointment by assistants. The second paragraph of that Article extends the period for obtaining a doctoral diploma to the teachers referred to in the provision until 31 December 2018. Article 39(3) of Law 4186/2013 has created problems. In 2011, applications professors who had a personal place in the publication of Law 4186/2013 were given the opportunity to become regular assistant teachers. This should be noted that only applies to those - to avoid the issue at the TEIs - had applied until the publication of the 2013 Act and to anyone else from there. This applies only to those who applied at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u88	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u89	I would like to do a piece of legislation, which I mentioned earlier, which relates to subparagraph (a) of paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the bill we are debating today for the ELDR. It reads: ‘Funders may be enterprises, educational and research institutions and other bodies, public or private sectors of the territory’. It leaves the 'foreigners'. The main beneficiaries are universities, TEI and research centres. The other thing I wanted to say, for those who mentioned earlier, such as Mr Amyras and Mrs Kerameo, is that the Minister of Finance will be here at 12.30 seconds to respond to the amendment on OTE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u90	Mr Minister, I would ask you to be presented and distributed to the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u91	I shall now put them to the vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u92	Mr Evangelos Venizelos has asked for the floor. Please, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor in the debate on articles and amendments because what is happening with the draft legislation under discussion is, I think, characteristic and proves that the greatest problem we face at our place is the institutional problem, the definiteness of the institutions, starting with Parliament and the parliamentary process, in particular the legislative process. Ten government amendments were initially tabled in this bill. For the well-known political reasons, the amendment of the Minister of State for the automatic closure of unauthorised television channels was withdrawn, an amendment which the Council of State insults in its deliberations on the constitutionality of the basic law in question, and also constitutes a confession that the competence of the National Broadcasting Council had to be established by it and was poorly misled by the Minister of State. In any case, there is a threat - within introductory terms - of reintroducing this amendment within the next few days. Of the other ministerial amendments, several are accompanied by a white report by the General Accounting Office of the State, a virtual report, without any essential content, because the General Accounting Office of the State states that it does not indicate that the impact on the budget is incapable of being determined, as the relevant Ministries did not have the necessary information. This bill could be discussed in a consensual climate, because the legislator is making a move, which is forced. It is actually imposed by partners and creditors for managing research funds that do not trust them in the existing structures. It has turned into a vehicle to settle different cases, which are, of course, heirs and have no cohesion and no principle. There's no beginning of the bill, but it's known and thousands of them. The issue of the amendment to OTE, for Deutsche Telekom, for the relationship between the Greek State and TSE is extremely important, because the House is actually coming to vote today on its resignation to have the final control, through the legislative procedure of the whole case, which is decisive. Because any influence that the Greek State still has on OTE, the COSMOTE Group, is now based on a shareholder agreement and not on the participation rate of the Greek State in equity. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is proposing to you that this House should resign from its main competence on an issue which, if you were in opposition, if we were before January 2015, you would now have turned it into a major issue. And you wouldn't be sitting on the seats of this House, but you'd be up on the seats of this House. I shall not even refer to the amendment by the Deputy Minister of National Defence on the submarines of the Navy. Vote it. We will have a chance to talk about these issues. You set another pilgrim, in which you will deposit crowns, next to the pilgrimage for the PSI and the debt haircut and next to the great pilgrim to save the place against your own proposals, which proves to be dangerous, destructive, irresponsible, unscrupulous. And now you have gone to the field of international political anecology, as you are the subject of the testimony and comments of President Holland, President Putin and so on. I would simply point out that of course the amendment is tabled by the appropriate Deputy Minister for National Defence, who knows what is going on in this matter and not by your irresponsible colleague, Minister for National Defence, who emits what he emits and that this amendment is, of course, a full legislative acceptance and conclusion of the basic No.38852010. Fortunately these moves are made, which show an elementary sense of seriousness and reality now, under the pressure of situations and things. But the bill also includes an amendment by the Minister of Justice to increase the positions of judges. The major issue facing the country, the rule of law, democracy and the major institutional diversion issue is what is happening in justice. It's the systematic attempt to blackmail. It is the organized redemption operation of the Council of State, with the responsibility of the government, which violates the external independence of justice, but also with the responsibility of small members of the leadership of the Supreme Courts who internalise the interventions of the Government and create a huge problem of internal independence of justice. The history of television licences is evolving into an existential problem for the government, but it is also evolving into a gigantic effort, of course desperately and ineffectively, undermining and perfecting justice. The problem of television licences has been transformed into a problem of justice by para-state methods, targeting judges, in violation of the hard core of sensitive personal data. These are things that have not been done and are not done in any democratic state. I'm warning you. You are violating the values of the European Union. Greece is at risk of being faced with a procedure similar to the procedure initiated for Hungary and Poland. These procedures concern media and justice in those countries. You are violating the principles and values of the Council of Europe and the European Convention on Human Rights. Hands down from justice and the institutions upon which the rule of law and democracy are founded in this place!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Dimas has the floor in the place of Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill on research and innovation. Instead of looking at how to strengthen research and innovation, you create a new institution that has similar responsibilities and objectives to the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology. More specifically, it will fund research projects, which the General Secretariat has been doing for thirty years, will provide grants for candidate doctors and postdoctoral research, which the General Secretariat does, will finance the purchase of research equipment, which the General Secretariat will do and will support the creation of new-born businesses. But we are not here to consider whether the General Secretariat of Research does this in the most beneficial way, but see why we need another state structure that has these responsibilities. In fact, we need a more flexible and more functional structure that will not make the lives of researchers difficult, but will quickly and directly support their work, without bureaucracy. However, I would like to make a reference because I am one of the Members who have signed the parliamentary amendment with a general number of 712 and a specialist of 90. It is the amendment tabled by the New Democracy to suspend the auctioning of the main residence. According to the most recent figures from the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, private debts to the public amounted to more than EUR 91.5 billion in August. The late public debts of private individuals since the government took over by SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks have increased by 18 billion euros. In eighteen months, 18 billion euros. Very simply, Mr Minister for Finance, you are charging the citizens about a billion euros a month. Unfortunately, the vertical increase in private debts to the public has affected the lives of all citizens and businesses. In fact, one of the two taxpayers owes the Greek State. This is the result, of course, of the policy of overtaxation and the recession of the SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. We have from the outset proposed a different mix of fiscal policy, which reduces tax burdens, in order to reduce burdens on citizens and businesses and at last create the conditions for the development of the Greek economy. This, however, also includes costly and equivalent reductions in government expenditure in order to avoid disrupting budgetary equilibrium. For this reason, the New Democracy has tabled the amendment to suspend the auctioning of first house auctions for public debts by the end of 2017. I would like to call not only on the government to study and accept the amendment but also on the opposition parties to consider it and of course to support it. The amendment provides that the confiscation of immovable immovable taxpayers who have public debts shall be suspended until 31 December 2017, provided that the following conditions are cumulatively met: First, this property serves as a main residence. Secondly, its annual available family income does not exceed EUR 13,900 for single and EUR 23,600 for couples increased by EUR 5,700 for each child. Thirdly, the objective value of the principal residence at the time of the application does not exceed EUR 180,000 for the single debtor, plus EUR 40,000 for the married debtor and EUR 20,000 for each child, up to three children. This regulation requires a coherent, strategic private debt reduction plan. The possibility of mass auctions today would be particularly detrimental to social cohesion and to the interests of the Greek State. I therefore call on the government to examine and adopt it immediately. Of course, I understand, Minister, completely the conditions of self-determination that the government itself has created, because unfortunately not only the political will, the government's intention to do this. It also needs a credible government, someone who has credibility and can speak with the European partners as equal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Dimas. The Minister for Justice, Mr. Paraparmatopoulos, will support Amendment No 698: 'Increase by thirty the number of judicial officers in criminal and administrative justice'. Please, Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is an amendment signed by the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos and myself personally. It concerns an increase in the number of Judges. It is not a large number of judges. They're thirty people. I would like to say a few words about the urgency of this amendment and its feasibility. In the last few years justice has been imposed on cases involving the refugee. This burden is due to the fact that the asylum commissions, previously made up of management officials exclusively, have now been established by law to serve the Europe-Turkey-Greece Convention. They have been added to the compositions of the secondary courts and two administrative judges in each of those courts. This created a deficit in employment and in the number of administrative judges present in administrative justice, primarily in the field of administrative judges. With the first creation, months ago, of these courts, the position of the general commissioner of administrative justice was that a removal, a deficit of ten judges from administrative justice could be tolerated without consequences. However, the task of these committees is to increase their number, which means that other judges will also come to be removed from administrative justice. Unfortunately, administrative justice is a branch of our justice, the one most burdened with a stock of cases that are also pending, that is, the one most burdened with the problem of slowing down and the removal of other judges would cause a very important operating difficulty. That is why we are proposing this increase, which concerns administrative justice, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, we have a small number of prosecutors. The Prosecutor also bears responsibility for this development, precisely because prosecutors of special duties are also provided for with matters relating to refugee. I would like to say that in the first two years, the financial burden is minimal, because additional imported judges are introduced into the Court of Justice, which is a project financed by an ESDP. The burden arises only for the third year, when new entrants will be introduced into the framework of justice. I would like to say, however, that I am also making an immediate presentation of a legislative improvement. Retrospectively declared by the relevant consultants and officials. For the increase provided for by 16 September 2017, it would be preferable to shorten the deadline by a corresponding date of 2016, as this would mean that the additional judges could be in the Chair as of 1 September. Thank you very much and I am at your disposal for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, may I have the floor for a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u100	Mr Chakalotos will be speaking, supporting other amendments, and then you will be placed in total. Please have the floor, Mr. Chakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, on the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u102	Minister, speak to you and they'll be placed in total. What amendment are you going to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u103	For the two. For Olympic Air Force and OTE. For the other part Mr Paradise was placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u104	One saying ‘Preparation of the amendment of shareholders between the Greek State and Deutsche Telekom’, which had been ratified by the second article of Law No.3676/2008 ‘Preparation of the contract for the sale of shares between the Greek State and Deutsche Telekom’, and the other which states ‘... authorised the Minister for Economic Transport and Networks to determine the procedure for the participation of the Greek State in the satisfaction of the creditors, in accordance with the first subparagraph of Article 11(2) of Law No.3717/2008’. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u105	Let me inform you where we are with OTE and the obligation from the July 2015 memorandum that they voted for two hundred and fifty members of the House. It was to go 6% of OTE's shares to the HICP. We had the following thought, and the negotiation we are negotiating is to go 5%, to keep the 1% and, together with the 4% that IKA had, to be able to maintain a strategic relationship with OTE. That's the way it happened. So what is going to be the final deal will be that 5% will go to the HIAD and we will keep the 1 that we had plus IKA 4 in order to be able to have a new shareholders' agreement. Regardless of this, since 2012 in FISMA, that is to say the address of the Commission dealing with these issues, it did not like the share agreement that we had because it said: "With 6% of you had at the time, it is very big your rights and you should negotiate it, have fewer veto rights, have fewer people on the boards". We with this change, the 1 plus 4 that we are going to keep, have negotiated a new shareholder agreement. All that this amendment does is that from now on the amendments to the shareholders' agreement, to the Shareholds Agreement, will not come to Parliament. Why does the Commission say they will not come to Parliament? Because the Commission considers that if they come to Parliament, they take the form of the "golden" share and "with that percentage you have, you have no right to have the "golden" share". So what this amendment says is that from now on the new shareholders' agreements will not come to Parliament, that is all. I repeat that this is not a Memorandum of Understanding, it is not the result of the Memorandum. It is the result of the interventions of the Commission and the FISMA how they understand when or should not be ratified by Parliament. The second amendment that has to do...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u106	For the veto?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u107	At the moment we are not bringing you the new agreement and we are telling you that we will not officially bring it to you because it is not to be ratified. But I am happy to bring her to the debate and information. I do not know whether the right framework is the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs or the Standing Committee on Production and Trade. I am not 100% sure, but I undertake to bring her to one of the two committees to discuss why we kept this veto. It's not just the veto thing. There are other obligations that the company has toward us and to the company, apart from the veto, how many members we will have on the company's board, how many members we will have on the company's Affiliates Board and go by by saying. For Olympic Airways, Law 3717/2008 provided for public participation without specifying the way, i.e. public participation in the liquidation of the company, but did not say how we would do it. We are now coming to say that we authorize the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks to determine the procedure for the participation of the Greek State in the satisfaction of the creditors and therefore in a way that these two ministers can make an intervention for the benefit of both the workers and the rights of the public. So we clarify the way it says that the public may also participate in the liquidation of Olympic Airways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u110	Please, Mrs. Kerameau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u111	Minister, I would like to ask you three questions on the OTE amendment. First question: The government basically divests the 5% of OTE in conditions of complete depreciation of the stock exchange itself has caused. I would remind you that on 29-12-2014 the value of OTE's share was EUR 9.2 and today it is EUR 7,85. What does that mean? On the basis of some calculations we have made, this means that there is a "hole" for the Greek State of EUR 500 million because there has been a downgrading of the OTE's share. We would like your position on how this "hole" will be covered and what steps the Ministry intends to take to deal with this "hole". Secondly, you have spoken - I admit - in a comfort that the Greek Parliament is actually being circumvented. Neither too little nor much is the point we are voting on today is that, while for any amendment of the Sharehold Agreement, the shareholders' agreement, this amendment must today pass through the House, it must be voted on by the Greek Parliament, from now on, what is being changed in the shareholders' agreement, does not have to go through the Greek Parliament. This, Minister, is a very important retreat of our country. It's an unprecedented retreat. Shareholder agreement on OTE will not even take the typical state of the House. It's unprecedented! We would like to know whether the government intends to move on to other issues on which it will never know. You kindly said you'd bring us the new deal for discussion. This is not the case, Minister. The House is not here to just talk. The House is here to ratify certain agreements. Third matter. We would like your clear position on what is the right to veto the Greek state, the so-called veto. What exactly is the case, since at the moment 5% of the Greek State is sold out, according to which the Greek State was entitled to veto, veto on very important issues. So clearly, what is the position of the Greek State on these key issues of the veto, based on the Ministry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor, and then Mr Karras has the floor, because of the series of parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u113	Mr Minister of Justice, as far as the amendment is concerned, there is, of course, a lack of staff and any increase in staff we are dealing with it in a positive way. But, apart from the fact that it comes into an unrelated bill - we have now overcome this with the government and the way we legislate - I should like to ask you two questions. First, is the amendment related to the call for tenders by the judges in September 2016? Will that increase the number of that notice and be added there, or is it a new notice that will be announced in the near future? It is a matter where a question is reasonably raised. A second issue is, of course, the Timing of this initiative. You know that with justice and what has been happening in recent years, we have every reason to be suspicious. We want your position clear - and here today - on what has been said in recent years in order to increase the age limits of the highest judiciary. This is an unconstitutional arrangement or proposal if it has been done and we want your opinion here in the Greek Parliament on whether or not it is unconstitutional. Can the age limits, for example, be increased? All these issues need to be seen in total. Because we see various requests made by the judges either for retrospective purposes, for increases, or for the number of staff, which we need to see as a whole. Partially, then, some arrangements are coming like today and that is why reasonable questions are raised. Mr Tsakalotos, congratulations first on your election and your first meeting at the Central Committee of SYRIZA. I hope that all cooperation with your partner, Panos Kammenos, can be found in the economic field. You have company now than I've seen relationships. As far as this bill is concerned, I have seen it carefully and I would like to ask you a question at the end so that we can also be productive. First - he writes in what you said and you say that no further energy will be required in terms of ratification under law or otherwise. You said it was not the result of memoranda of choices, but the committee wants it and the country loses it. Well, then why did you accept it in the negotiation? We can give you an inefficient negotiation on this issue. Do you think it is not a significant loss at the moment to be able to bring these matters to Parliament? What's your position? You're a Minister of Finance. You may have said other things in the election, but what is your position? Because this - and I think all the parties have put it - is an important change that cannot be accepted. Secondly, in relation to the transfer. You transfer 24.5 million OTE shares, out of 29 million, 5% of the 6% left. He's staying to control the public 1% of the shares. He sells 5%. And the veto was that for 5% in relation to the ownership of the Greek state. The question is: is the right to veto lost or not? The second is that IKA has 4%. Have you examined other cases, such as helping the fund's liquidity and giving another percentage instead of that, in this process, 4%, and keeping 6%? Have you considered cases of others in this negotiation process? However, the essential thing is that we are seeing issues that are happening here all the time. You have informed us on Sunday night, if I am not mistaken, at least the Group of the Democratic Independence that you will bring an amendment. You hadn't informed of this earlier. We are constantly seeing surprises on these issues. You may then specialize the memorandum in further negotiations, but it seems here that a lender can raise the phone at any time to ask you, for example, that he wants, instead of five, four and accept these changes. That is why we will now come to have 1% not to have a veto right as a country and not to pass through the House. This is a process that does not honor the Greek Parliament. And we would also like the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group to take a concrete position on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, too. Mr Karras has asked for the floor and he has the floor as a parliamentary representative of the Union of Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u115	Of course, Mr President, in the order followed by one Minister and raised different issues of amendments, you can understand that this is not a legality. This is a form of paper exercises. Whatever that may be, I shall refer to the amendment on 'COSMOTE', and I would like to ask Mr Tsakaloto the following. I notice two provisions. A delegation to the international arbitration of any contractual dispute between Geneva, the International Chamber of Commerce under the heading ‘Administration’ and under the following arrangement, ‘Application of Law’. ‘This Agreement and any non-conventional disputes arising therefrom shall be governed and interpreted in accordance with Greek law’. I would like to ask the following question: Since it will no longer be introduced into the Greek Parliament to ratify any amendment to an agreement and you have confined yourself to saying that Parliament will only be informed as far as possible, between the terms of which they can change is the applicable law. And tomorrow, a Liechtenstein law, a Luxembourg law and a Greek government can be forced to legislate. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] What I would like to ask you to do is today that the amendment is introduced to bring in a provision whereby, if there is any question of changing the applicable law, it will be put under the approval of the House. Why am I saying that? You have given up the sovereign right of Greece, without any appeal, you say, against the decision of the arbitrator, except in cases provided for by the law. What cases are provided for under the law? From the political process? There's Mr. Paradise. Maybe he wants to answer that point. The exceptions provided for by the law should therefore be specified, because the generality of the provision is also the right to appeal by the Greek State to Greek justice. So this is on the question of the amendment to 'COSMOTE'. I would like to ask Mr Paradise a second question on the question of the number of Judges. You remember, Minister, my reaction to the possibility of involving administrative judges in the appeal committees on the grounds that I had considered it to be a court. Today - if it was not wrong language - you said that these are courts, if I understood it correctly. You'll fix me. Irrespective of this, however, is the number of eight paroles and administrative prototypes to deal with the issue of alleged actions, has this number been studied or does the amendment cover another need? I see that you have referred to the refugee and migration that it is a cause to increase the number of prosecutors and, in particular, the Vice-Presidents, but I see that instead of raising at least the prosecutors of the first, secondly, we are increasing the anti-prosecutors of the Ice Bay by two. But it won't be on trial by the Ice Arrow prosecutors right now. Does your amendment contain an opportunity to clear up the year-end? Because that is how I interpret it, when I see two Vice-Presidents of the Ice Bay in a total of twenty. I think, therefore, that the number of first-degree administrative judges should be increased. Because I've also become a master of evil, Mr. Paradoxopoulos. I have said that the committees will not work because you still have the authority of the administrative court to decide on an application for annulment after the appeal committee and you have created four points at this time of jurisdiction. Thirdly, Mrs Antonopoulou, I see, she is here and I would like to ask her something about the amendment, and I would like to end: you told us, Minister, that she was given the opportunity in one month to the assistants before retirement. So that means, of course, a change in pension. Is it part of the law that you voted on social security? You have taken it into account that your policy is indirectly reversing - we will not have voted for it, I would just like to point out it out - because, given the possibility of progressing over a month, it is a point of privilege. We do not, first of all, have any particular objections to this, but is it now a Trojan horse that has offered, tested, tested in education, but would they have the right to remain or retire and have an indirect cause to withdraw from the service, to withdraw, with the prerogative of pension growth? Mr President, have you given me the floor for eight minutes to speak as a Parliamentary?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u117	Then I should have come to Stepma. I didn't notice. So I continue from here my speech, if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u118	And underneath, you're a good orator.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u119	That's nice of you. Thank you very much. These are my questions on the amendments. Of course, I must comment on an issue which concerns the inconsistency, inconsistency, the disparity between the amendments. And I must say that I feel that there is a great deal of pressure on Members, particularly on speakers and parliamentary representatives, when they are to be placed on the amendments, which are irrelevant to the draft legislation. That's for granted. I want to say something else, though. I see two amendments relating to shipping, particularly the establishment of organic posts in the training units of the Ministry of Shipping, which should have been done a long time ago. Greek shipping accepts competition enormously from shipping from other countries, especially where we did not expect them to be shipping powers. But she also accepts Greek crews, which are the most worthwhile, perhaps, of the world. The Greeks are sailors, they're sailors. It therefore accepts a pressure on the lower crew, in which, where there is a Greek ship, irrespective of the number of the composition of the Ministry of Shipping, they are foreigners and especially Indonesians, Filipinos and a small number of officers of merchant ships, masters and engineers. We therefore think that maritime education should be further strengthened, because I note that maritime education also creates the conditions for shipping, if you like. Why am I saying that? One in the two Greek shipowners is a traditional captain and then created fleets, developed the country. Therefore, the government must stand up to this and bring more and better regulations and, if you like, also privileged for shipping. Another amendment concerns the Scaramaga shipyards. I have to say this: a few months ago the ratification of a convention on Elefsina shipyards passed by the House. We saw the lightness he was faced with. On the one hand, we gave the right to the execution of contracts in the context of armaments programmes, on the other hand, the Ministry of Finance was binding on the company's accounts to obtain the debts. Finally, in the middle of the day, this is solved. But today this issue is coming, here, which is the completion of executions and, in particular, the tests. I have a question, I am not in place: So long have we not been able to take a test and now with an increase in costs it will be resolved? The budget adopted in 2014 is 75 million and we add another 15 to a minimum. I think these 15 stories are not over. The story of submarines is a lot of passion, Mr President. It's known in the House. Over decades, changes in ownership status have been known. Will it ever be solved? And I want to ask the government the question. Will the problem be solved by Greek Shipyards becoming really commercial shipyards? Will they be able to negotiate with the European Union on the issue of fines, which are invoked by the limitation that we are currently a maritime country and do not have a shipyard, and which alone gave us the right to have warships? And in the sense of "tsanto" - I will say - of the 15 million today, of the 20th of tomorrow, of the 75 other days, trying to keep the shipyard of Greece alive, when at the moment, if I'm not mistaken, 8 billion orders are in the South Korea Shipyard and I don't know how many billions of Greek shipyard orders are in the yards in China? And we cannot build a torpedo, because there is also a question there. I therefore think that these problems should come to be tackled, discussed, even if I make reference to a bill on research and innovation institutions. As these amendments come, I have to make these reports and wait for them, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, too. Has Mr. Vernardakis asked for the floor for some kind of legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u121	Shouldn't we answer that before we go to another amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u122	Yes, it's another amendment. Can I support her? I don't know, it's a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u123	We have tabled a number of amendments and some questions have been asked by colleagues. I say, so that it goes better, we can answer and then we can go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u124	Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u125	I don't know why Mr. Theocharopoulos is confused that we bring, we undo. Most parties voted in July 2015 that 6% of the state's shares in OTE will go to the TIADED. We only did this at 5% instead of 6% and along with IKA 4 we make some rights to continue to have a Shareholders agreement. That is not what you call rocket science, I think it is something Mr Theocharopoulos can understand if he has a little patience. I think it's too much. Now we're going to the dive, Mrs. Kerameau. We're not divesting, there's 5% in the TIAD. When will the GOI sell it will depend on the conditions on the market. There's no obligation for Mr. Pittsorlas to sell them now, tomorrow. They'll decide together when it's the best price. So divestment and fire sales, which are told in England when you sell at low prices, are not going to happen and it has no interest in becoming either the Greek state or the creditors. Second, for the retreat. I know that there is a New Democracy retreat for what we voted on in July 2015 for the memorandum. I do not want to believe that there is a retreat of the New Democracy and of the rules of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u126	What rules?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u127	These are the market rules and financial markets that come out and are discussed between governments or DGCOM - and I must tell you that we are negotiating too much with DGCOM, that is, the Competition Directorate - whether it is for tonnage tax and shipowners or for various businesses that are being or are not being given State aid on this issue too. We are also told by our lawyers and by the Commission that since 2012 the agreement, namely the existing Shareholders Agreement, has not been compatible with European rules and case law. So that's what we negotiated, and that's the result. I imagine a government of yours used to do the same thing. Unless you guys imagine a heroic...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u128	Is there European legislation that obliges our country not to pass the agreement from the Greek Parliament? If there is, show it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u129	There's legislation, there's market regulation...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u130	Specifically.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u131	You asked a question. Have the kindness of answering you. There is legislation, there is a European framework for when the state can have gold share, for the good regulation of the financial markets. The Commission, namely FISMA, says that "with those shares you have, you cannot pass it through the House, because that would recommend Golden Share and that is incompatible with the proper regulation of the financial markets". Of course, if you want to get out of the European context, it is yours. Let's go to the third topic on veto rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u132	We've always been out!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u133	All right, Mr Karamanlis, can we now turn the process into such a dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u134	You have asked me a question about the pressure that we receive from FISMA, as we accept from DGCOM. All the governments, the old ones, yours, ours and all the future will be on permanent negotiation because it is the European framework. Isn't that right? So in this European context, if you have argument that FISMA is wrong, you can come with me and negotiate it, to see if she has been wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u135	You made an assignment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u136	Mrs. Horn, come on, please. Minister, don't hold a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u137	You have to account for where this assignment is based, to which law.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u138	Please ignore us, Mrs. Kerameau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u139	It's a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u140	I'll wait for your criticism of how FISMA works, with great interest. I don't say that sarcastically, I really say it. Your criticism of how FISMA works and how the regulation of the financial markets in Europe works will be of great interest, because it can help me after all. veto rights are not just about one issue, it is about a dozen topics. When I present the new agreement to you, you will see that it will be limited in relation to the previous agreement, but I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u141	Okay...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u142	This issue has been raised since 2012, Mrs. Keramea. How's that okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u143	Minister, please do not respond to the gestures. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u144	It's not a prerequisite...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u145	I explained - you were not here - that this change is not related to the memorandum. There is a debate between the Greek Government and the Commission. I explained that. If you weren't here, don't repeat it to interrupt me. There's no need. I've accepted that it has nothing to do with prerequisites. It's only the 6% transfer that we managed to make is 5%. As far as the law is concerned, Mr Karras, this is something that all the Greek governments who will negotiate new shareholder agreements will be able to discuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u146	The amendment to the auction amendment has not been answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, forty-four students and students and four teachers from the General High School of Caminia. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u149	No, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, just one question to the Minister. It's very important, and the Minister will want it too. It's not something...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u151	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u152	It is such a serious issue and you do not give the opportunity to have a dialogue with the Minister of Finance. To give the floor - we have not interrupted - to have a dialogue, to ask the Minister of Finance a question. Remove time from my dentistry, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u153	You want to take the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u154	Yeah, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u155	Now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u156	To ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u157	Good. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u158	Minister, first my question is in relation to the percentage. You carried 5%. There's 1% left from 6% and the other 4% is in IKA. And so I asked you whether you would consider the other case, transfer 4%, buy it in a few words, to keep all 6% in this negotiation process, so that you have 6% of the original domination, so that you have the same veto rights. That's my question. He hasn't answered. I'd like you to answer that. It's a clear question. Now, from your answer, I understand we're losing veto rights. At the next meeting, you'll tell us who. The House won't pass this one. After all that, who's confused is obvious. Confused, Mr. Chakaloto, you are the one with regard to what you were saying in the election, what you said to SYRIZA and what you said today.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u159	Okay. Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u160	Thank you. First of all, both Members have referred to the fact that this amendment seems irrelevant to the main issue of the bill. And because it is linked to Mr. Theocharopoulos's following question as to whether the recruitment of those posts is now to be carried out as from 1 December 2016, I should like to say: The needs of justice to judges and, of course, to administrative and secretarial support for the operation, but in particular to judges, are far more than those covered by this draft law, which provides for fewer posts. And, of course, it will be proposed in a draft law, which will support the Ministry of Justice for Parliament, the increase in the positions of judges by a much more important number and, in the near future, the increase in the number of judges. The reason why we have taken part in the attempt to establish these positions here is the fact that they are linked to the refugee. The new institutions have now been created and the secondary committees of crisis have been increased, and the needs of the moves are at present needed. Now, as to whether we can have the prosecutors at the headquarters before the end of 2016, that depends on the speed of the competition. Indeed, at the moment the competition for admission to the National School of Judges is evolving. If he gets ahead and moves fast, we'll have most places in 2016. Otherwise, in 2017, we will proceed normally, as our legislation provides. Of course, the question of the possible unconstitutionality of the functioning of the administrative committees - clearly not of court - was raised again with judges as members. Of course, we are talking about the provision, which is also constitutional, that judges may be members of administrative committees if these committees have disciplinary or judicial functions. In my opinion, which I also supported in the debate on the creation of these committees, we are dealing here with judicial work. These judges are absolutely free, independent and unaffected. Already from the functioning of the committees that we have today, this is clear, because the product of decisions is not one colour, on one side or on the other. Of course, the judges have a guarantee of independence and there are, I think, the other conditions laid down by the fair trial, but also our own Constitution for the recognition of the court text of the works. That is why we believe that there is no constitutional problem with the inclusion of judges in these administrative committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, too. Mr. Vernardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u162	I have two minutes to answer to Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u163	Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u164	Mr Carras, first of all I call myself Anagnostopoulou and not Antonopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u165	Forgive me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u166	Yeah, that's okay. Just to write in the Minutes that he doesn't answer for anyone else. I want to tell you about this arrangement that I was probably not very detailed. It was a regulation that was in effect in any case in a parliamentary amendment, which went into a previous law, that these provisions were omitted from the wrong. We're not bringing anything new. There was anyway a law of 2001 and a provision was repeated in 2011 that provides that teachers in a personal position, when they complete the sixty-fifth year of their age, take the next step before they leave. There was anyway, and it's about the TEIs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, too. Mr. Vernardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. I too have to support the amendment which we have already discussed in committee, and for which we have some legislative improvements that I would like to mention. To remind you, the amendment refers to extending the existing individual contracts and those of individual contracts to the administration, the independent authorities, the legal persons of public and private law and the OTAs, cleaning and servicing contracts. The legislative improvements, which I will obviously table to share, concern the following three points. The first is that the existing conventions which are being extended are those which have expired up to 90 days instead of sixty, precisely because we had an extension of the entire debate we have had here since the first day of this debate. The second wording is that the phrase, in particular for TAs, is deleted, ‘taking into account the appropriations available in the budgets concerned’. The reason for this is that the observation made by the CEDEFOP that there are typically no appropriations for this work in their technical budgets. After all, many of these contracts are paid by reciprocity fees. The third question that has had further clarification and with which it is somewhat correct is that ‘This extension does not fall within the scope of the individual contracts concluded to address urgent, seasonal or temporary needs in this area and signed from 1-2016’. These conventions, the two-month-olds, which refer to urgent, seasonal and temporary, are not excluded from this renewal. These are the three legislative improvements I can make, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Bernardakis. The Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, Mr Delis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u170	Should I not answer Mr. Theocharopoulos, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u171	There's a question left.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u172	Yeah, that's what I'm saying. I just want thirty seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u173	Wait a minute, Mr. Delia. I'll give you the floor right after. Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u174	We looked at various shapes to establish that we will have new Shareholds' Agreement, new stock deal and share exchange and stuff like you said. What we decided was the simplest. It was to be able to have the power of attorney and the other four, and this was accepted by the 'DEUTSCHE TELEKOM' that it would be part of it. It was the simplest shape, and I think it was the best.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u175	You wouldn't have the right to veto anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u176	I told you that the reduction of veto rights does not result either from the 'Deutsche TELEKOM', from us or from the Memorandum. Withdrawal from the Commission's intervention from 2012 onwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u177	Good. Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u178	Thank you. It is only because I have not taken the floor in the debate on the amendments that there should be a tolerance, because we are, of course, close to forgetting what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u179	In a scorching frame.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u180	I am starting with the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Trade Shipping. What are you doing with the amendment? You create five organic educational posts in naval education, and one could call it a "Urban Midwives" While the needs of teachers at AEN, the KESEN, the PESA, in all maritime schools are literally explosive, the five organic training places you recommend are a drop in the ocean. At the same time, when public maritime education is being deported and at the same time private maritime schools flee like mushrooms and draw certificates of naval competence, paid by seafarers from two to four thousand euros and disembarked, your proposal that comes for the five places you are establishing is far behind today's needs. Even aspirin no one can tell her. It's a mockery, literally. You continue on the path of previous governments. You cover the obligations of the State to the limits of the standard, namely, for this matter, within the limits of the Manila Convention, a convention which has established the intensity of the exploitation of seafarers and thus the issues of maritime education are exacerbated every day. And if only the shortages of teachers were to be? It is also the anachronistic educational programme of maritime education, in which shipowners of course have a say. It is also the misguided working relationships for the majority of teachers, not to mention the disgrace of the provocative law - which you leave intact - which says that shipowners are financed through the capital of maritime education. The privileges and tax exemptions of shipowners are also the 'early cow' for you. We are tabling the requests made by students from maritime schools in the Minutes in relation to the amendment. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Delis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second amendment we would like to talk about is the amendment on submarines. What are you talking about here? In order to complete the work in the submarines - we remind you, in the old submarines - you propose that the initial budget and non-sufficient amount, as you yourself admit, should be exceeded, as provided for by Law 4258/2014, of 75.5 million, up to EUR 15 million. The critical word, of course, here is 'until'. Except that of EUR 15 million, Minister, 10.5 million relates to the payroll and the workers' insurance contributions. This 'until' comes in to remind us that it is not at all certain to pay workers, since these 15 million are certainly not binding at all. And we know, of course, that the first victim of the famous 'cost compression' is wage rights. We are reminiscent of unpaid or poorly paid workers for years with individual contracts of employment at a Scaramaga Shipyard that is snatching. Finally - Mr Chakalotos is not here - as far as the amendment to OTE is concerned, he told us that this is not a Memorandum of Understanding, an agreement with the Commission. So the Commission's not in the Memorandum? Is it outside the memorial? Isn't that one of the parts of the "quartet"? In any case, whether or not, it is a Memorandum of Understanding. Firstly, it provides for the transfer of the last package of shares to the public, 5%, to the 'DEUTSCHE TELEKOM'. These are the end-use titles for a privatisation launched since 1990 and is now being completed with SYRIZA. But the good thing is, you kept it for the end. According to the amendment, any amendment of the Convention between the Greek State and the 'DEUTSCHE TELEKOM' will no longer come for ratification in Parliament. The amendment starts from the date of the vote and not, as usual, from the date of publication in the FEK, once again, in accordance with this amendment, it is entitled to denounce - please - the Convention, if it is not completed - and here it is blackmail - its amendment - the amendment that is being voted on today - by 31 October. What about the cherry? It is Article 19, which I read to you: "The Parties, i.e. the Greek State and DEUTSCHE TELEKOM, shall not make public notices or issue any circular relating to this Agreement and the Sales Agreement or any eventual issue after the date of the present, without having consulted each other and provided that the Parties have duly taken into account any comments from the Partner." This is called an agreement between a state and a company! Such provisions would envy them even 'ULEN' and 'POWER' from the 1920s and 1930s! But let us turn back, ladies and gentlemen, to the bill we are discussing, because yesterday's debate and today's - as far as scientific research was concerned - was interesting. This debate was interesting, because it was extremely revealing. It was first revealed that, in relation to scientific research, there is objectively a common strategic targeting of all urban parties. It is absolutely logical, of course, for the current, former, ambitious - anyway - politicians of the capitalist system. There is a common strategic targeting, which was expressed openly and as a coexistence with the Government, for Democratic Integration, for Potami, for the Association of Centres, which voted in principle on the bill on research. In fact, several times these opposition parties also won the praise for the bill, even surpassing the government's MPs, by taking obedience to the relevant Minister, after having taken into account their proposals, as they have said. I must say that we had such a consensual climate to see from last summer's summer in the third memorandum. As for the New Democracy, let us look at its opposition needs. He did not vote for it at the end, raising a number of objections. Although, as its representatives have said, they would very much like to and would do so if the government listened to some of its proposals for the operation of the ELPEC. In particular, the greater involvement of entrepreneurs in its administrative structure. The crucial issue, however, ladies and gentlemen, is not how the Hellenic Institute of Research and Innovation is run, but for what purpose it is being established and who it is intended to serve. I mean, research for who? This is absolutely clear from both the provisions and the positions of his rapporteurs and his supporters. Created from the outset as a legal person of private law, in order, of course, to function in accordance with private economy rules, which goes on to say to co-operate more easily and at ease with business groups, whether to finance them directly, or to serve them more indirectly. This is the real meaning of the phrase EL.I.E.K., a tool for development in the context of the national strategy which was heard against coron. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The bill itself reveals that this national strategy in the field of research is none other than the strategy to strengthen domestic and international research capital. After all, this is your so-called 'national strategy' for growth, as you would like to call the capitalist development of capitalist capital profits and the barbarity that comes from it. But this is not a national strategy, it is a classic, traveller. Do you not implement this with the memorials and the measures you take, by crushing the popular layers that don't breathe from your politics? Aren't you prepared for the new "achieve" on the work rights left? Isn't that what you're doing with your developmental laws sharing million-dollars to capitalists? As for what workers have to expect from this development, they have to see the preliminary draft budget for 2017, which, with predicted growth of 2.7%, loads at least 2.5 billion more taxes and cuts on the people's backs. Capitalist development, therefore: the other face of the capitalist jungle, the same barbaric and appalling. Why, Minister, do you triumph for the EL.I.E.L.C.? Are you triumphing about obtaining a loan to be channelled into research projects in that direction and in that way serving Euro-Union policy and the needs of capital? That after the young scientists have passed the Insurance Night by mocking them with the normal adaptations - which you have recently abolished - are now insinuating the insecurity of unacceptable labour relations, such as 'block', fixed-term contracts, which lead every so long to leave the space to thousands of young scientists who work as long as they work for a piece of bread? Or is it that research production remains committed to the logic of the programmes that change and change according to the priorities of capital? What does all this mean? They mean that there is no continuity in research production, that there should be an elementary long-term planning, that work should be ensured, with work on the subject, in line with their current needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Delis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u182	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Still, of course, science is evolving. The development of science through research has an objective, progressive character and its social dimension is undeniable. In capitalism, however, its effects, innovations, that is, are not self-evident for society as a whole. Containers for profit, are captured by the laws of the capitalist market, since these results, through the patents, remain the property of business groups and there is no one, but no way to become a property of the people. At times you are trying - and attempted - to respond to the criticism that we in the JRC have made. And that's when you're revealing beyond, not only as system apologies, but now as managers and valuable, enclosed pencils, his warm supporters. Are we really asking you, does the business activities of research centres solve or create problems? What do you have to say about the thousands of redundancies of young researchers due to the end of the programs? Why do you maintain and perpetuate flexible labour relations? Why, anyway, are you not accepting the demands of the workers in the research centres, which you have been given, Minister, to the fiaste you have organised for the signing of the loan with the European Bank? You know, we, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are not criticising you that you are going slow or roughly or that you are taking fragmentary measures, as the rest of you are told. Our criticism is that, everywhere, in all areas and in research, you are serving the capitalist development path, capitalist policy. And that's something our people live in, and the research workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Delia, elasticity has arrived until the rope is broken!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u184	In conclusion - and I thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance - I would like to say that the JRC's political proposal responds to today and directly demands all the people's problems while opening the way to the philosophical perspective, which is at the reverse of your own policy. We are, of course, talking about a different social and economic organization, about the socialization of the concentrated means of production, about the scientific, central planning of social production, about the power of wealth producers and not of capital, because then alone and only then will the development of scientific research be placed at the service of ever-expanding people's needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u185	We too, Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, may I say something about an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u187	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u188	First of all, I would like to say that I am not going to answer Mr Delis. We will wait for the great day that comes, as we have said several times, and then we will discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u189	You know, we don't wait!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u190	I would therefore like to refer to an amendment tabled by the New Democracy in relation to the seizure of real estate. This is a very important and sensitive issue. The government therefore recognises and has already prepared an integrated intervention which is due to be submitted in the near future to a next bill. So this amendment cannot be accepted in this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u191	Mrs Aylonitou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill: "Greek Institute of Research and Innovation and other provisions" introduces for the first time the systematic planning of scientific research in the context of a national research and innovation strategy. This is perhaps a pioneering act for our country. But in other developed countries such institutions have been in existence for decades. For example, in the United States of America the corresponding organization, the National Research Council, was founded in 1916, just a century ago. INVESTMENT AND INNOVATION PROTECTION is intended to direct scientific research conducted in our country towards solving the problems that the country has. A medium-term approach is financing. The institution says "we have these problems, we fund whoever deals with their resolution". Thus, the resources are directed at what we need most. The first thing we need, therefore, is the continued development of high-tech economic sectors that have high added value, export-oriented potential and are suited to a high-level society of education and the value of social capital. Greece is not going to go to the 21st century only with traditional products and low value added production. The high-tech industries, however, are neither developed on the basis of a state mandate nor is the existence of capital investors sufficient for their development. In high-tech sectors, however, it has been demonstrated internationally that, where knowledge is produced there, its most profitable applications are developed. High-tech industries are developing around universities and research institutions. So this process wants today's bill to be launched. Apart from the immediate pursuit of economic development, however, there are other urgent issues that Greek society has in the modern environment. These are issues that the targeted scientific research can solve. We are talking at times about the supply of water to our islands with desalination facilities and the debate goes where we will introduce the relevant know-how and technology. Should we not, though, who, with so many islands, have the problem of being pioneers internationally in its resolution? Why aren't we? What do we miss? We don't have the relevant scientists, or do we have them to export them abroad from where we then import the applications that our own people are developing there? So we see that the organisation of scientific research in our country solves many problems together. It solves local problems in our country. It creates new economic sectors and strengthens economic activity. It strengthens the Greek economy's export orientation. It increases the taxable material over time to increase tax revenue without overtaxation. And most importantly, it maintains Greek scientists in Greece. In addition to the simulations on the contrary, it is a fact that our educational system produces very high-level scientists who in Greece stay unemployed and abroad. So we pay off the staffing of foreign businesses, and then we pay to import their products. But by enabling these people to divert our country into research in the first phase and then to the economic use of the research findings, we are creating here, in our country, a nursery of scientists who will constantly feed economic development in Greece and through this process it will naturally self-finance itself. It's a virtuous circle, which, once it starts, can take us far away. This possibility has not been sufficiently exploited in the past, because existing economic interests are established in other sectors of the economy, whether traditional, fully state-owned or exclusively commercially-oriented. Those, that is, who always went through their word, don't care. The ones who cared and understood, their word didn't pass. However, we, ladies and gentlemen, do not have any dependence on the country's current economic situation, and so we can see further. From the articles of the bill, I would like to focus in particular on Article 2, entitled 'Application', in paragraph 1, which provides for support from the institution, with one-off financing, of the creation and operation of newly-integrated enterprises to exploit research results. This provision reveals the main objective of the bill, which is to use scientific research for the economic development of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are late to enter this mentality. It is high time for us finally to understand that the path of economic development for our country goes through exploiting scientific research and doing something at last to help in this process. So let us vote in favour of today's bill as a whole, which paves the way for a genuine national strategy for research and innovation, based primarily on scientific quality and excellence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u193	Mr Balommenakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the process of adopting the earlier law introduced by the Deputy Minister responsible for the investigation, and it ended up in Law 4386, the opposition was sanitary, I remember, its content with the words 'dealing term and laying common ground'. I also recall that he had then received the sober answer from the Minister that the Ministry is not engaged in stunning and exercises on paper, but seeks to bring about a progressive discussion of mature and highly prepared legislation. The draft law we are debating is a good example that at times there is no need to rush against content. Like also, there is no need to be exploited in high-level designs and in large words, such as the ones that had been filled with us for at least a decade by the previous governments, with a champion, of course, the government of Mr Papandreou, who prepared us psychologically for the celebratory entrance of Greece to the club of the pioneers of research with the Greek silicon Valley, if we remember. Instead, for big words, we have a set-aside: the establishment of an institution, a reformist section, a moderate perspective in relation to the current economic situation, with some money being secured, not much for this great purpose, but enough to get a satisfactory start. Ladies and gentlemen, we say not to go back, but we cannot hear here that 6 billion was spent between 2008 and 2015 on research and to ask ourselves why we did not have such results, especially when there was the placement here of at least one colleague who presented the previous period to the cosmogenesis in the field of research that the current government has allegedly interrupted. The Minister from the research field spoke, as he was due, of the quality and often heroic effort of research staff. He also spoke of the absence of an innovation culture, which is true in any case, but not entirely enough as an explanation for our delay. Of course, a debate like this and on this occasion is not enough to answer the question of what it is about which innovation and research have not yet become an integral part of the Greek production mechanism, which should have been at least a decade ago. As a non-specialist, of course, and rather foreign to the details of this area, I think the estimates that we do not have an innovation culture or that we do not encourage the innovative environment, although correct, are not enough. It would be preferable to look for the reasons in the policy applied, in the way it has so far managed the funds, that is, the mechanistic logic of 'all a little while'. It is not right to level up, because then it will be wrong for important scientists who feed laboratories, often with poor means, lack of staff and uncertain professional future. Our experience, however, from the Committee on Research and Innovation in this House tells us that in addition to very important scientific work, there are considerable gaps, weaknesses, the absence of priorities, a lack of reward. There is bureaucracy, and above all, lack of encouragement, lack of planning. On the one hand there is a significant extroversion that extends the object of employment to areas that are most closest to applied research, to problems and needs of everyday life. There is, on a case-by-case basis, an increased attraction of money from competitive European programmes that overhear state participation. There are staff estimated to be high-skilled, but somewhat old, since the general situation in recent years has prevented its renewal. On the other hand, however, there is also increased bureaucracy, mainly in transactions with the public. And this phenomenon seeks to deal with this regulation without leading to a lack of control. We hope that the press will not be at the expense of the substance. The plan you bring today is excellent and well-processed. And as shown by the process of hearing the bodies, they meet wider approval of the research area, people on a presumption capable of judging completeness, in depth, and indeed on strict criteria, and to determine whether there are deeper dark-type pursuits. He's doing something else with the draft law. Depresses the convenient myth that supposedly the Left is not interested in excellence, that allegedly leads persons and situations to a deadly equation downwards. The predominant idea, and in this bill, is the reward of the first among the first ones, whether they are persons with the scholarship system or research project. Guaranteeing transparency is the fact that the research community itself will shape the landscape within the framework of the national strategic research planning. After making a little mention of the necessary distinction between scientific leadership and elitism, which has been made many times, and since we stress that this draft law aims to prioritise the fight against opacity, with the important provision of Article 4 and since we also emphasise that it is not an ad hoc regulation to manage just sums by which it starts its career and is not an opportune fund management body, but a reform section, I will bypass a few comments that have already been answered on the regularity of the notices - in order not to exceed time - and the percentage of operational expenditure and I will end with a necessary remark that I hope, Mr President, will not be described out of the question, because the TV amendment is ultimately not inserted into this sitting: It seems to be attempting a gigantic reversal of reality, an attempt to eradicate recent memory. There's no other explanation. The New Democracy spoke of blackmail. Who? The New Democracy, which at the end of last year blackmailed every prospect of consensus and the appointment of members of the PSE, with the sole aim of sabotaging the licensing procedure. Even now, ladies and gentlemen, while this faction is being set before its responsibilities, the New Democracy leadership insists on its refusal to finally come to the process of reconstituting the National Radio Council, which seems to be recommending executives of the wise and consciousness of its institutional responsibilities. Perhaps the New Democracy is trying to correct its original mistake by one more mistake, to premium, that is, television insurgent. I think there is a time for the leadership of the New Democracy to realise that overthrowing legality with a return to the old vicious regime cannot exist and begin to be dealt with as a responsible democratic party and not as an extension of those who have been used for years to appease the public good of television frequencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, twenty-six students and students and three teachers from the General School of Kaminios Piraeus (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Katsavria has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Antonio, I shall refer to your amendment to which you referred at your position a moment ago. Do you owe an explanation, an apology...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u197	I don't have mine. Do you mean the New Democracy amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u198	Yours, the New Democracy. Do you, then, owe an apology to all those in danger of losing their homes, an explanation why they were in this situation? What's the matter with all this late interest...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u199	You rule. Don't get confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u200	Yes, but before us you have ruled for too many years and inherited a very bad situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u201	You've been close for two years. You rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u202	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u203	So what is this late interest in you when our Prime Minister in fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u204	Do you mind the late interest in ours?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u205	Mrs. Antoniou, you'll answer when you take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u206	Let me finish. To what extent, when our Prime Minister even committed himself to regulating the issues of the debts of borrowers to the public and...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u207	That's what I said. Here's the Rhodes, here's the fuck and the fuck!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u208	You are breaking open doors, Mr Antoniou, because you want to create impressions and that is all you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u209	Mrs. Antonio, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u210	Yes, but it has been mentioned in our amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u211	So it goes very much to you to play the late saviors of this place and of the people, when you are the main guilty ones along with PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u212	Then make it acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u213	Now on the subject. Ladies and gentlemen, for a strange reason anything concerning the promotional forces of Greek society and economy has always been the poor relative of the budget. For example, research and culture have brought together high-sounding theoretical approaches, but unfortunately insufficient institutional armour and little funding. This treatment clearly undermined the lack of political will, as the prior adaptation of the old political system to the automatic pilot of neoliberalism did not leave room for some strategic planning. Already the increase in research expenditure, small in absolute figures, but bravely as a percentage of GDP, which now reaches 0.96%, marks a new reversal in relation to the past. This is a direction towards the knowledge economy that is becoming crucial in today's economic environment that has shaped the long-standing crisis. The new one that comes today with the draft law under discussion is the creation of a new body, the Hellenic Research and Technology Foundation and, secondly, the fact that this government uses a dynamic financing tool, the European Investment Bank, which means that the resources allocated to research are substantially increased, but also to the grant of new ingenious enterprises that will develop research programmes and grants for research and innovation. The Civic Opposition says that we are taking credit again and that there will be an extra budget cost, and even that these funds would be better to channel them into the purely private hands. But so much has New Democracy been blinded? The Harvard students didn't know it was worth borrowing a country for such investments? They want the investigation on the market? Or do they want us to borrow only so that the 'currants' and the 'indigenous' can take them? Another criticism supports the opposite, namely that these resources will be provided to support bad entrepreneurship and to perpetuate capitalism. Ladies and gentlemen, this is none of the two. This is simply an attempt to make use of the country's every opportunity to circumvent its austerity policies, even with these 240 million European Investment Bank. Financing of research programmes with this tool ensures flexibility and speed, as there will be no geographical or institutional limitation. In this way, the country's LAGs and public research and technology bodies will be able to undertake original research initiatives and attract high-level researchers by awarding scholarships. This money will put an end to the fleeing of our scientific potential abroad because of the long-standing crisis. It is a great goal to be pursued by this bill, because it is incomprehensible for young scientists, for whom the country has invested a great deal in their education, to be exploited by developed economies and not by our own needs. Most of all, however, it is incomprehensible that Greece cancels the dreams and hopes of the Greek family and its children. Who might not want that? Who can look at four thousand young scientists and researchers in the eyes and show them the exit from the country? So these are the young people we are focusing on. We're investing in these new ones. We are relying on these young people and the problems of these young people are that guide the policies of this government. Another high-priority objective is the fact that the national strategy for research and innovation acquires depth and perspective, contrary to what has been happening so far, as it is sufficient for the stalls, the crusts of the state budget and the NRP. Why should his logic be perpetuated'so without a programme'? For us for the government majority, the change in the development model requires knowledge and technology to be exploited. This is the primary objective we are trying to achieve and it is important to consider research and innovation as a decisive development factor. It is, in fact, a crucial condition for the productive reconstruction of our country and for fair economic and social development. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to emphasise that this initiative is part of the parallel SYRIZA programme, as it goes far beyond the agreement with the lenders. I am also pleased that the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Fotakis, has made great efforts and made a substantial consensus in this bill, of course, with the permanent falsification of the New Democracy. I hope that the Qualified Opposition will quickly find its institutional step. Three more years in opposition, it is a shame to remain in the knowledge of the words 'neo-liberalism' and not in the criticism that leads to a political deadlock. At least let him learn to say both words together, 'not neoliberalism'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u214	So do we. Mr Emmanuelides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I would like to make some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u216	You want to do it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u217	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u218	Wait a minute, Mr. Emmanuelides. Here you go, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u219	Thank you. I want to know about some legislative improvements. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mrs Ithanasia Anagnostopoulou submits for the minutes the abovementioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 176-178]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] On the subject of a general number 300 and a special number 83/13-10-2016 amendment to the draft law entitled 'Greek Research and Innovation Foundation and other provisions', the following changes are made. First, in the explanatory statement to the amendment and in the article entitled ‘Standarding of the topics of Higher Education Institutions’, the words ‘and of the Special Educational Person (SIS)’ are added after the second intervention in the original (SIS)’. The same applies to the text of the proposed provisions. Secondly, the text of the proposed provisions and the article entitled ‘Additional arrangements for CIT registries’ is added paragraph 3: in Article 77 of L.4386/2016, the last paragraph is added as follows: ‘The cases of this Article shall be examined by the Committee referred to in paragraph 9 of Article 21 of L.4332/2015’. In the text of the proposed provisions and in the article entitled ‘Confidentiality of Higher Education Topics’, the words ‘Article 81 of Law No.4386/2016’ are replaced and applied by the publication of the said Law as follows: ‘Article 77 ‘Staff Regulations of Higher Education’ of Law No.4310/2014 is replaced by the following:’ recast as follows: ‘Article 77 ‘Staff Regulations of Higher Education’ of Law No.4310/2014 is replaced by the entry into force of Law No.4386/2016 as follows.’ The amendment is followed. Finally, in the text of the proposed provisions and in the article entitled ‘Compensation of the themes of Educational Technology’, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: ‘Article 39(3) of Law No 4186/2013 is replaced by the date of its entry into force as follows: ‘(3) For Applicants holding a personal position when publishing this Law, the possibility of converting the person concerned’s place of business on a regular basis in accordance with point (d) of paragraph 1 of Article 6 of Law 2916/2001 shall continue to apply where, by 31 December 2016, the procedure for examining the application for conversion of the post of the person concerned from the five-member elective body referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 6 of Law 2916/2001 has been completed. This provision shall apply to applications submitted until the publication of this provision. Any procedure for the conversion of a teacher's personal position into a regular post as an assistant shall be automatically void. b. The provision of Article 61 of Law 4415/2016 (A 159) has been repealed since it was in force.’; Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Emmanoulidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law on research and innovation and, more generally, on education, which adds to the important changes and reforms that this government brings because, as we will all agree, the role of education is crucial to the country's exit from the crisis. Respecting the fact that education is the highest value for Greek society, we are trying to do everything possible to meet the high expectations of our country in very narrow financial frameworks, set by the crisis and international creditors. The draft law we are debating is on the basis of an agreement between the Greek State and the European Investment Bank, which will bring EUR 240 million over the next three years. These important funds will be put exclusively for the research area, for the creation of jobs for young scientists and for the implementation of high-quality research programmes at universities, institutions and research centres in the country. The opposition says: "But it's a loan. Are we going to borrow another one?" We respond: "We lend ourselves in extremely favourable terms to the spiritual and productive reconstruction of our country, not to throw them into consumption, as you, gentlemen of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, and you have reached us here now, but to prevent new scientists from fleeing abroad and contributing to the reconstruction of our country". This initiative by the Government and the Ministry responsible is not the only one. A few days ago, the invitation procedure of the National Scholarship Foundation, which, with funds from the NSRF, will provide two hundred and eighty-nine scholarships to prepare postdoctoral research in Greece, was completed. Furthermore, two thousand seven hundred scholarships will be awarded by the State Scholarship Foundation to students who, while all qualified to study and distinguish, do not have the necessary financial means. For the first time after six years, there is the recruitment of members of the LAG to the Greek universities, a thousand posts within two years. As recently announced by the Ministry of Education, 330m euros will be directed as a whole by the new NSRP to higher education and an additional 1 billion to research and technological development. Through this, the government's aim is to support and restore the Greek economy by exploiting trained young people who are the comparative advantage of this country. Are these measures enough to overthrow the fleeing of new scientists abroad? No, of course not. But they are important steps in this direction and clearly better than the dissolution and deregulation that you have brought with your policy. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, what did you sign for education? You signed that the funds for education would be reduced to 1.8% of GDP. What do you have to say about these, gentlemen of PASOK and New Democracy? Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA government, on the other hand, is putting a burden on the entire educational structure with emphasis on primary education, namely the foundations. We stress the creation of a school for all, a school that will enable all children to move forward and advance. After seven years of deregulation and dismantling, decisive steps were taken this year to restore normality in schools. Schools this year opened up and opened without shortages in books and teachers. In conclusion, the current initiative for the creation of the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation is a long-term project that has the potential to contribute to the liberation of the exceptional human potential existing in research, so that this can be supported in the development effort of the country that has already begun. The only way out that you gave young researchers in the years of the crisis was migration and the search for work abroad. We do everything possible to keep them in our country, to keep our country and society upright. Watching the political behavior, especially the Officerial Response, inevitably my mind is the phrase of Oedipus in Tyresia, that casting of anger, "blinding the ears, making it the bodies." Gentlemen of Officer Opposition really are blind in the ears. This blindness has reached the point where you are not listening to the listening of your neighbors in the opposition course. You heard Mrs. Kefalidou make an excellent approach to the right targeting of this bill and to plunder discreetly the Minister's obedience, precisely for the style and the morality with which he manages these things. The opposition blindness reaches the point that you do not realize that this path you have taken is a dead end. You don't even convince people in the same room as you. At last be careful why this opposition is causing graphics and remembrance in the world. Don't feel self-satisfied with polling that all they do is sabotage and trap you in a fraudulent dream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u222	So do we. Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, thank you and thank Mrs Karamanlis very much. I came here as a matter of urgency only to address the issue of the amendment which he introduced and spoke about, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsakalots, as regards the amendment of the shareholders agreement between the Greek State and the 'Deutsche TELECOM'. I have to say that in us, in the New Democracy, and methodism and content are incomprehensible. If the Minutes well illustrate what Mr Tsakalotos said earlier, then he said that he tabled the amendment because he is required about by DG COM. It is invoked in the explanatory statement of this amendment. Obviously the document is the proof of the pressure the European Commission exerts on the Greek Government and the Hellenic Republic with a slight difference, ladies and gentlemen, that the document is 2012. So I ask. This document refers to Article 258 of the Act of Accession. 258 of the Treaty concerns the reasoned opinion. For those who are not familiar, a country's referral process begins with the warning, goes to the reasoned opinion and then goes to the referral. This document is not posted, so I could not find it, and the Minister did not pay attention to it. If this document is a reasoned opinion, why have we not been referred to the court for four years? What happened in the middle? What is the fact, what is the pressure exerted on the Minister for bringing this amendment out of hand, by which the Greek Parliament must not be informed of the change in the agreement of OTE shareholders? I do not need to analyse in this House - you, in particular, believe in the activity of the state in the economy - that OTE is an absolutely strategic business. It is about defence, it is about the entire economic life of the country and its very delicate parameters. That is exactly why there was the shareholders' agreement, on which the House would be informed. Suddenly, with an amendment, without any prior information from anyone who comes here and tells us that the House will not be informed. Why can't the House be informed?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u224	No, he explained it. It's another thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u225	Excuse me, Minister, I saw in the minutes the explanation of the Minister. I do not want to charge you the obligation to answer that. The Minister did not say - from the Minutes again - that if there is a good idea from the opposition he would be happy to discuss it with pleasure, etc. If the Minister wanted to discuss some idea of counter-population, the least he should have done was to inform the opposition - before bringing the amendment - to see the documents together, to see the issue together and to offer a solution if there is a solution. There should not be any amendments which disguise the responsibilities of the Greek Parliament in this way and with an arbitrary excuse that does not prove to be true. I'm not saying the Minister's lying. To God! I'm not allowed to say that. I say, however, that what it says is not documented by the information it presents to the national Parliament. So in no way can we vote on this amendment. I would also like the Minister to tell us as a majority and what he is thinking about doing with this 10%, the percentage of IKA and the percentage of the Greek government, which still exists. Does he want to sell 5%? At what price? What will be the Greek State's damage or profit? Because he will obviously remember what was said on OTE’s stock sales in the past. So what I am saying is that we cannot vote on this amendment in any way. We would like and wish to express the whole of this House, its withdrawal and the debate on it. No one wants to help if the national interest imposes something. No one wants the country to be referred back. But all these things need to be discussed and dealt with in a proper way. To have an amendment inviting a document from 2012 and explaining the Minister to Parliament and, I say again, to say 'whoever has a good idea to tell us' as if we were to be a group of speakers here or something that everyone here on the clipboard, these things are not serious, they are not honoring the government and I have the great fear that they are causing great damage to the Greek state.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u226	Thank you. Mr. Hadjisavvas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. We said yesterday, and our speaker said today that in general terms the bill is about managing funds and funding, and it is not about us in fact or about society. However, there are some issues that were amendments that have been accepted, such as the 15 million to end and operate the three submarines, where we say 'yes', for reasons of national defence and for the support of workers. You said the materials have been bought, everything has been done. All that's left is to pay the workers, build them for the maintenance of the facilities. The amendment of the government's agreement with DEUTSCHE TELECOM and the TEAD which will be more easily granted public property do not vote for it. We believe that the TEAD should be nationalised and then abolished. We say 'no' on the subject of transfers, because they are not sufficiently justified on the need to legislate on extensions and promotions by simple amendment and should be done by law. Regarding the provision of tobacco tax strips to the Bank of Greece, all right, it is not the best guarantee on the Bank of Greece. In other words, it is not public and private, because they too are private, but we will vote 'at present', taking serious account of the complaints made by the tobacco trade union about the legality of the amendment, on the one hand, concerning the parallel circulation of two types of film, on the other hand, with the hidden increase in excise duty. You will bring this by law, Minister, but it has been mentioned within the committees that it will be possible to safeguard and manage the labelling films. Do you even have an example of illegality made by someone who prints them or who kept them or moved them? If that's the case, he'll have to face the law. Now, although there has not been much discussion in this House on the amendment that has been withdrawn, it is also on radio and television. It's a great tactical move, and that looks like it's why the New Democracy didn't celebrate. He found them with the four new canals, the Minister, forced him to shut down the unlicensed, made the five days of closing the channels that he did not get permission and forced the New Democracy to set up an PSE - naturally controlled by the Government - and after a month, the Minister will still do what he wants. Now the tears of some who are moved by the fired, the "black" on the channels, we are not moved, because those who are now fired said about the unemployed "to go to work in Manola's fields and cut strawberries". Let them do the same now, because the treatment they have had across society and on the Golden Dawn can no longer excite us to be unemployed. May the Government, of course, if it wants to deal with the issue of sacked people, ask the JRC, which has experience with its sacked 'TYPEGRAPHIC' and '902'. Another subject that plays on radio and television, but here it was not mentioned at all, is Erdogan's mistake. Was it wrong? You know, from some of these mistakes, like in a football match, Yugoslavia broke up. Why didn't anyone mention it? It was supposed to be a mistake by the correspondent of the RES, who went out and answered Kotzias - that is, the government - went out and the New Democracy answered, based on the mistakes of the News Agency. In other words, not one person thought that he would first have to contact the competent authorities, the consulate, the embassy, wherever someone would take anyone there and ask him "Erdogan said that, didn't he say it?" In other words, we were answering on the basis of a mistake that made a news agency. Erdogan is now retreating and says that he respects the borders delimited in Lozan, but there are the borders of our hearts - he says - which include Thessaloniki, Cyprus, some parts of Syria, Armenia. That doesn't need an answer? In other words, the error of the RES has been answered, but does that not need to be answered? So now we're okay? As regards the recruitment of judges, we have asked dozens of questions about the need for judges to be recruited, pending cases are dropped. But you are now coming to tell us about increasing crime in hospitals, indirectly and directly. It is good to admit, at least, that crime has increased in these places. But there are also acute phrases, such as illegal trafficking in refugees. If they are refugees, there are regulations and laws that allow them to move. Is it illegal trafficking of immigrants or illegal immigrants, Illegal immigrants as they are in the documents of the European Union? Do you think the problems in hot spots are the lack of judges? We have also asked dozens of questions about the risk of using road networks from pedestrian immigrants travelling by group and there is a risk of an accident. We have asked the Minister, Mr Muzala, a question which does not answer us why we are racist. In the new Kavala police vehicle hit a migrant lightly a while ago. They broke it and lynched the cop. The commander of the Polykastro Police Department, in a discussion of the primary offices of police officers said that from a miracle we don't have any victims. "Even me," he says, "I almost hit some and I avoided them in a manoeuvre." Finally the accident took place, two lives were lost in a car accident, and where are we going? Where are we driving? Self-righteous? Lindsarized driver, burned up the vehicle. If this driver, the perpetrator, who took two lives in a car accident, had with him for example in his car and his grandchildren what images would we see? Would we see lynches? One I referred now to what is also in Oriokastro - and I would like to close with it - the professional and well-paid humanists of the NGOs, who have now reached a point in seeing hot spots as a "many money" jackpot, characterize fascists of the Oriokastro people who made a decision through their club that they do not want - they did not say immigrants, illegal immigrants, etc. - children who have not been in the vaccination system and all of this. This applies or is not the case. It is another decision of a majority. If these anti-racists, who characterize racist residents of Oreokastro, want to change this majority, can take their children from colleges that take them, go to the schools of Oriokastro, be a majority in the next vote to change the decision and want illegal immigrants in schools. But why did the residents react? Because their homes and factories are wired in the area. A known resident - who can also give his information if you want, he revealed it - has hepatitis A and worked in NGOs and cleaned out the toilets of the hospitality centers. However, you are not interested in this because even 1% of your motives are not humanitarian. Your aim is to break the social fabric. You want social groups in adversity. It seemed that this tension was artificial, because you finally chose to answer the Oreokastro only, because you knew that there the mayor would react, keep him from an older case and blackmail him. For example, they will see it and all the other municipalities who would like to react and you chose there to give the answer, there to make publicity so that it can finally be seen that no matter what the inhabitants do, there is nothing to do. The residents will react. We'll be with them. They're right about what they're asking. The main thing is, do you know what it is? You reveal what I told you that you don't care if they're going to school, if they want to go to school, and all of this, because eventually in the schools that opened their doors, they only went one-third of the people you expected to go to school. Why? Because they don't want to go to school. They don't want to join, because they don't want to stay, they want to leave. So so do we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u228	Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u229	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft legislation under discussion in my opinion crystallises outside the rest and the systematic and methodical work of the Ministry of Education in the last few years and, unfortunately, not, as has been said, an irresponsible and derelict memorial obligation and indeed one of the protagonists of the sound implementation of the first two memoranda that demolished the place and society. A number of institutional and financial initiatives are attempting to create a new modern and radically renewed landscape for research and innovation. Today's initiative to create the ELIDEC, as is said for the first time, is a continuation of the government's strategic planning for the multi-pathic area of research in our country, as was initially unfolded by the recent N.4386 and is a long-term and wide-ranging project capable of reversing the only-marked 30-five thousand gifted young scientists abroad. More specifically, although it has been said, over the next three years, more than four thousand scientists will be supported to produce quality research work under decent working conditions. The project is based on funds totalling EUR 240 million for a three-year loan contract between the Greek State and the European Investment Bank, and there will also be participation by the Public Investment Programme. It will have administrative and financial autonomy and will be supervised by the Deputy Minister for Research and Innovation. Its structure will be independent of the Ministries and will be defined by the HEIs and research centres. In other words, the research and academic community itself will elect the members of the general assembly from which the Scientific Council and the Director will emerge. In other words, the community itself will make the choices of both evaluations and priorities in a process below, which will be at a distance from the political leadership in question. Its staff and function, as other speakers have said, will not result in any additional financial costs, as the expenditure in question will be covered by the institution's own budget. The financial operation of the Foundation and its funding will be carried out on the basis of the principles of excellent academic performance, transparency, dignity and sound financial management, which is always the case, as our rapporteur has said. The financing rules will be simple and adapted to the research dynamics, free of bureaucratic processes and with a view to ensuring the public interest. This operation will be marked by the announcement of two actions on the basis of the amount of the advance amounting to EUR 18 million. The first starts with scholarships for two hundred sixty-five candidates, with a fee of EUR 900 per month for two years. The second relates to the two to three-year research programmes, with a maximum budget for each project planned, to be EUR 200 000 per project - of which - and this is the important one - 60% will be made available for the payroll of young scientists. Project managers - and this is a very important message to the new generation - will be exclusively postdoctors, according to the law of research. Benefits? All young scientists. A total of forty - five projects will be supported to employ a hundred eighty persons. Following the forthcoming adoption of the draft law on the establishment, the third set of research programmes with beneficiaries of LAGs and first, second and third-stage researchers will be launched, with a maximum of EUR 250 000 per project. Therefore, the actions supported by the ELIDEEC and the ways in which they are implemented, with a central focus on the pursuit of scientific quality and excellence, are expected to stimulate and highlight the potential of the country's scientific potential, operating as a attraction to young scientists in the country. Its recommendation will also work in addition to the new NRP, which has the same direction, as an additional source of funding for research programmes, but free from the mandatory thematic and geographical definitions and restrictions that characterise the allocation of NRP resources to promote and develop research in research centres, academic institutions and innovative enterprises, and will also be accompanied by actions to promote this research in the wider society. In other words, it will be the substrate for the operation of the Single Education Research Area which will be able to make a part of the transformation of the Greek economy and contribute substantially to productive reconstruction. However, it must be made clear that its operation does not only degrade, but rather upgrades the GSP to establish a common national strategy for research and innovation, since it will continue to manage the resources of the ESDP. However, the programmes of the EMI will enable humanitarian and social sciences to be supported, which in times of crisis we need them so much and which have not so far been supported by the existing funding structures and have taken the place they deserve. Now on general policy, for those who question our work in education and systematically blame us for'sovietisation' and degradation of education structures in a very specific way: the funds available for education, within this suffocating environment, are 2.8% of GDP. Is that enough? Oh, no. However, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population, agreed and signed expenditure of 1.8%, faithfully following the Memorandum of Understanding and going back to the most extreme positions of the lenders and even implementing and planning a series of redundancies for the relentlessness of some of your favourite party audiences, pirate schoolmasters, private IEK, etc. For us the role of education is central and we are very vigilant in adding actions and actions, as this initiative is not the only one. IKY's invitation was already mentioned, according to which the funds allocated to the NSRP are for the proclamation of two hundred eighty-one scholarships in three areas of science, with the aim of preparing a postdoctoral research in Greece and two thousand seven hundred scholarships in students of IKH who will have all the necessary qualifications and will be distinguished, but do not have the necessary financial means. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. For the first time, also after six years, we have recruited Greek universities membership, a thousand posts in two years. Of course, more appointments are needed, but our intervention is making a systematic effort to restore normality to the landscape of dissolution and deregulation, which, unfortunately, in full consciousness, you have implemented for the public university. To conclude, the merits to which you refer, ladies and gentlemen, were to a considerable extent favourableity, with the frequent reciprocity of reciprocity recently reciprocating doctors who were constantly seized of programmes and funds with non-existent social reciprocity. On the other hand, excellence, which you invoke as graduates of schools and universities of the excellence, is not only your privilege, but expresses your elitism and your need through it to maintain your narcissistic self-image and your political authority. Finally, it is very hypocrisy when some of those who invoke it inside and outside Greece are even controlled for theft of their doctors. In other words, we have the permanent reversal of reality, the deforming mirror of the bad stepmother of children's fairy tales. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u230	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas and the MPs of his party tabled on 18-10-2016 a proposal for a law: "Commercial Work Agreements". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mrs Anna Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to start my speech with the OTE amendment, but I was covered by our parliamentary representative, Mr Denkias. I heard a lot about protecting the first home and the auctions from previous MPs from SYRIZA and ANEL. I would like to reply to Mrs Sioropoulou, but also to everyone who shares her view that, firstly, I do not know if you were MPs in the period 2012-2015. If you were not, I would inform you - or I would remind everyone you were - that we were legislating to protect the first residence, while you, the MPs and SYRIZA and the ANEL, were voting against. That's why this story has to stop. The candy's melted. The Greek people know and history has written that the auctions of the first home began in SYRIZA. So I would urge you, since you celebrate for all the good things you do, to continue drinking at the "blue bar" and to tell the truth, because this is a plenary and not a party audience. Also, avoid using the term “fingers” because you have become retreats after two years of governance. Ladies and gentlemen, education is the most important way of getting the cart out of the mud, leaving the crisis behind, creating and developing. Unfortunately, the current government is constantly lowering covetousness in education, baptizing its ideas of reforms and seeking to find in education the lost left hand sign of its policy. Of course, it is consistently serving the government's objective of increasing the state, with the industry creating new structures and multiplying state spending. Except this generosity, you know, isn't for free. It is paid by the Greek taxpayer who has exaggerated him, who has cut his pension, who is anxiously waiting for the money to be paid by the public authorities and keeps his business open with nails and teeth. The object of the bill under discussion is to establish and operate another body, the Hellenic Institute of Research and Innovation. A loan of 180 million has been entered for the operation of the institution with the European Investment Bank, which is entered into the public debt of our country. In times extremely difficult, then, the Greek taxpayers will also be charged with this loan, for a body that has not even become clear about what is different from the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology. On the contrary, it largely coincides with the institutional framework of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology, as described in Presidential Decree 114/2014. And if it's about the evolution of the research, it's worth it to invest, although at the same time you leave the NRP's money for research both for the 2014-2020 programming period and for the previous 2007-2013 period. Couldn't these insufficient resources contribute to the promotion of research activity? It is also not clear at all how this institution will be financed after the loan has been used. How can it be proved effective, if the continuity and stability of its financing have not been foreseen and ensured, when the operating costs have not even been determined? We all agree in this Chamber that the country's great comparative advantage is our human resources, it is the large national capital, which is unfortunately spent every day. They are the thousands of young scientists, generally highly qualified, who suffocate to Greece and seek their way abroad, where they stand out and dive. Since the Minister at committee meetings has claimed that the aim of the bill is to curb this bleeding, how is this objective served through structures which have been created in a way that favours cosmopolitanism and which have many black holes in matters of merit? So, what is the prospect for young children? To settle for a place on SYRIZA's party client list? Is it, then, a finding of research, or are we dealing with another case of management and administration of power, resources and funds? Because the concentration of powers on the person of the Minister, who decides on the allocation of funding programmes, but also defines the auditors who will exercise financial control over the institution, is unfortunately referring to it. This is how the setting of only one by name of an independent body is shaped. It is good that you withdrew what was provided for in the original bill on the Minister's ability to object to the members of the General Assembly and the Scientific Council, because it was not a sample of the institution's independence, but rather a statuteal conception. This draft law does not allow for participation and representation in private sector bodies. At a time when we are all aware that research is essential for extroverting and linking to production and the labour market, private sector involvement would, if anything, be useful. The Scientific Council, too, has no reason to recruit the staff of the Foundation, as the relevant competence in accordance with Article 10 is exercised by the Director. Shadows are again created and room for opaque processes. Staff recruitment should be approved by the Scientific Council, but this is obviously the way we all understand. Also, in Article 5, concerning the notice and the evaluation, you set the three-year limitation for the programmes to be financed. This is a restriction that does not justify and excludes research efforts with a broader time horizon. Why can't you decide on a proclamation? I would also like to make a separate reference to two amendments tabled, the first of which was incorporated into the bill as Article 17 - is the Ministry of Education - which increases the percentage of distinguished athletes entering higher education in addition to importers. Because we, as a party and personally, have made a great effort to reward athletes, which you are opposed to, I would like to express our satisfaction, because the leadership of the ministry has responded to this request. I hope there will be continuity and the Ministry will understand the value of excellence for Greek society. It's above all a small vindication for these kids who are lurking every day to achieve the goals. Both the same and his families are subjected to personal and financial sacrifices. These children deserve an increased motivation, such as their admission to university. It is worth pushing them into their education and scientific training. Otherwise, soon, we will also see in sport young children with talent and prospects of leaving, emigrating abroad, seeking a college scholarship, piercing there and being lost for Greek sport. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance for fifty seconds. I shall conclude with the second amendment tabled by the New Democracy on the burning issue of auctions. This is a provision that shields the first residence of those having public debts and, of course, fulfils certain conditions. The auctions, which in the words you once fought, as I said at the beginning of my speech, are a sad reality for your Government. Even after the common outcry, your initiatives have been exhausted in communication tricks and announcements via non paper. The New Democracy comes to cover your own insufficiency and protect the first residence, as it did as a government. I have not heard any talk about the amendment tabled by the New Democracy by any of your ministers who have been going to plenary since this morning. I would ask you, however, to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, too. Mrs Keramos, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. First of all, I would like to refer to a few comments we made yesterday on the draft law, which have remained unanswered. We have not yet received an answer because the General Accounting Office of the State has not mentioned a single amount in this respect, at the Research Foundation, because the General Accounting Office of the State says that it cannot budget at all the costs of this institution. An unanswered question! Another unanswered question: Why are you setting up a new institution, while the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology already plays this role to a large extent? Is it an end to creating new legal persons? Third question: the super-ministerial model. The Minister has shown every good will, I think, to limit these powers - and he is honouring this - but we have not yet seen any legislative improvements. And I would remind you that we have mentioned two specific examples: first of all, the authority you give the Minister to appoint the auditors of the institution himself, the auditors who carry out the financial management of the institution. Why would the Minister designate them? The second example was for the distribution of the Foundation's resources. After discussion, there will be a proposal from the Council, but it should be accepted by the Minister or not. So our proposal is that this decision should be taken exclusively by the Council and that the Minister should have absolutely no role to play, so that the government can prove that she is not interested in overcoming powers in the face of the Ministers. Another issue, which was also not answered yesterday: why has not one euro been absorbed from the new ESDP for research? What is the government doing, too, about the lack of programming and the lack of transparency in the results of the research programmes? And I move on to the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the amendments that have been tabled. They are ten ministerial amendments which far outweigh the bill we are discussing. Only the amendment to OTE is seventy-three pages and, of course, it was tabled late in an unrelated bill. I would remind you - although we are being tedious - of Rule 88(3) of the Rules of Procedure. What does Rule 88(3) of the Rules of Procedure say? It says that the amendments must relate to the main object of the bill. And I ask you and the citizens who are following us: What exactly does the submarine research have to do with submarines, cleaning contracts, athletes, OTE, tobacco tax films, directors of study at the Ministry of Shipping, judge? And I could go on. So I let people judge what you are doing - and I think you are doing so much worse - what you yourself have criticised. In addition, these amendments are mostly unspeakable. I read from the amendments you have tabled: in relation to the extension of cleaning contracts, the following is stated in the amendment: 'The Office has not provided any information on the assessment of the amount of expenditure.' Another amendment, that of the Ministry of Education, concerning the transfer and development of educational staff from TEI to a higher level: and there the State Accounting Office tells us what? It says: 'No expenditure has been determined by the expedited Ministry'. Another amendment which, of course, we agree on increasing the rate of admission of distinguished athletes to higher education: and that is where the General Accounting Office of the State says? He says: "The expenditure has not been speeded up by the expedited Ministry". We have 'white' checks. And that should all together, over and above parties, not be accepted. And I shall briefly refer to three amendments. First of all, it is the OTE amendment, which has been made a long time ago by the Minister for Finance. I would like to sum up the two heavy confessions made by the Minister of Finance a moment ago. What are these two confessions? First confession: the Minister of Finance told us that his Government, your Government, the ruling majority, agreed that the OTE shareholders' agreements should not be ratified by parliament. With a disarming comfort he said: 'If you want, I commit, I will bring them here to discuss them'. Gentlemen, this is a re-engagement here. There is a need for such agreements to be ratified by the Greek Parliament. The House is not a strawman. There is a reason why the House is scheduled to have these powers. What did the Minister tell us? He told us: It's okay. They will no longer be approved by Parliament, but I will bring them here to discuss them. Second unprecedented confession: The Minister of Finance, following our question, replied that the Greek State is indeed losing some veto rights that it had within the OTE company. He confessed and this is another naughty retreat and a great defeat, unfortunately, for our country of government. The second amendment is that of extending cleanliness contracts to the OTAs. Ladies and gentlemen, I referred yesterday to this amendment. I have referred to the fact that it is of course positive that we have as many fellow citizens as possible. Of course this is desirable and, of course, this is something that we must all pursue. But the laws exist for certain reasons. The ASA also exists for specific reasons. So we cannot systematically derogate from the provisions in order to satisfy requests from certain specific categories. It's something that happens for once. I would also remind you that a few months ago you asked us to write down the cleaning employees' contracts by the end of 2016 and now, after a few months, you come back and say that you are extending the contracts until 2017. The recruitment procedures of permanent and temporary staff cannot be balanced. The legislator has predicted a distinction between the two. That is why there is also the ADP in order to give equal opportunities to people who want to work in the public sector. I should like to close with the first residence amendment. I'd like to remind you of the history here: SYRIZA, when he was in opposition, voted against a provision brought by the New Democracy to protect the first residence. Let me repeat this: SYRIZA voted against the protection of first residence when it was in opposition! During the election campaign, SYRIZA campaigned with the moto "no house in the hands of a banker". In fact, last week, if I'm not mistaken, ten days ago, the Prime Minister here told us: "But why so much trouble on the issue of first residence. It is completely protected." A few days later - I remind you, on the eve of the SYRIZA conference - he said that an amendment is being prepared, a comprehensive regulation is being prepared in order to protect the first housing from public debt. No such amendment came. In fact, since December last year, we hear that this amendment will come for the protection of first homes for public debt. He didn't come. But an amendment from the New Democracy, which provides for protection of the first residence for public debt, has been tabled. But this amendment has not been accepted. You know, I was expecting, Minister, that you would look - and I say it with a deep appreciation to your face - the interest of the citizens above the interest of the party. Because you said here that you did not accept it because it has the emblem of the New Democracy, and that the government will bring another, which will have the SYRIZA emblem. But we're not going this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, may I also speak as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u236	Now?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u237	I want to answer for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u238	Mrs Vakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u239	I didn't intend to take the floor, but, because they sound monstrous lies, I have to answer. First of all, for the OTE amendment, I am not going to defend anything. I do not know very well about the 5% issue. But remind us of a few things, because the Greek people are listening to us, whose memory you are insulting. 95% of OTE when was assigned? Aren't you telling me, the PSI, for which you're so late, with a government service, didn't it? A government of Papademos, didn't it? Should I remind you of something else? The too many redundancies the president of yours was losing his sleep, how did they happen? With authorisation to the Minister and not through ratification by the Greek Parliament. And as far as the auctions are concerned, your concern and sensitivity, even if it occurs too late. Only in 2013, Mrs.Kerameos, with L.4224, the Hatzidakis Red Loans Act, the first residence ceased to be protected from tax debts and insurance funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u240	We voted for a law!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u241	Should we also remind ourselves of the personal retention of a debt of 5,000 euros, where reputable people were stacked in detention departments? And with our own government, in the government of SYRIZA, personal retention for debts of up to EUR 50,000 has stopped. With regard to the seizures and auctions of first home for bank debts, we have repeated this a hundred times. For very small, low incomes, it is the first time that the state has become a pain in the repayment of the instalment, when the debtor cannot pay the instalment, and for the remaining 65% for the majority of Greek households it is also protected by surcharges of 20,000 euros for married and childcare up to about 280,000 euros of the current value. So be a little more careful on such matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, may I answer for a moment to my colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u243	Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u244	I'll just say two sentences. First sentence: Law of 2014, New Democracy, protection of first residence. SYRIZA voted against the protection of the first residence. Secondly, I have heard nothing from the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman about bringing in a provision to cover your own omission. Admittedly, the Minister has had the sensitivity - and what he has done - to say that it is indeed a sensitive issue, but it is not acceptable, because you will have your own rules. I think the people are seeing and judging. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u245	Here, Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking a long time about amendments and we are finally forgetting the main object of the debate, which is, of course, the law on research. I shall therefore return with a few thoughts on a number of articles of this law and then comment on the amendments relating in particular to education. I said yesterday that the philosophy that the Ministry inspires is diametrically contrary to ours. We don't want a research, bureaucratic and state-run body. We want a body that will single out research policy in the country and is based on two legs. One will be state grant and, of course, state support or whatever the state considers appropriate support, and the other will be private initiative, because the innovative business must be based on the private initiative. Our Parliamentary spokesperson Mr Kerameou said earlier, but I too yesterday that there is no study of how we will get a return even for one of the 240 million euros we borrow. The research in Greece is fragmented and ineffective, and there is no research policy as a whole. And now things are getting worse, since we are building a new body, which comes to burden the whole situation, and which operates perfectly quickly for a certain period of time with a funding that comes from a loan without a reward and without a future. In particular, I would like to comment on three, four issues. The first is that of recruitment. There's opacity. The Minister hires until the institution is set up, and we do not know how long the institution will be set up, we do not know why the Minister should hurry to appoint before the institution is set up, and we do not know at all what criteria the Minister will be to use. But then, the recruitments provided by the Director-General are just as opaque as they are carried out without approval by the Scientific Council. It would have been better if the Ministry, which had taken a long time to take the initiative, had acted earlier and, in any case, had not left such a long time to go away from the time the draft law we are debating today was completed. Point two. The Minister's right to object to the choices made by the universities for the general meeting and the Scientific Council. Here too, this right to object seems to me to be unreasonable. Fortunately this seems to have been corrected. Organography doesn't exist. One institution appears without knowing how it is organized. Nor does there seem to be any provision for compensation or for those who come to join this body. I would remind you that there was a precedent in the preliminary draft provision, which was quite generous, and which currently does not exist, but without knowing what replaces it. And of course there is no report from the General Accounting Office of the State to know what this body will cost us. These are things that, unfortunately, show the perception and show that the Ministry does not formulate an overall policy, but prefers individual emblematic solutions, a short-term one. Next item: The general meeting of the body. There is no reason for an institution such as that, having an instrument as heavy as the general assembly, because it is neither devising nor politicising, that body is merely implementing actions which have been entrusted to it, and it is doing nothing important. All the other activities, all the other activities, could have been entrusted to an institution differently, without having to be borne by the institution by means of a general meeting, which has no reason to do so. The selection of the Scientific Council could be made by a body of selectors, which should have been set up by analogy with the weight of each institution and not by representation where universities are equal, without taking into account their size and importance. And I think we should also consider the question of the term of office of the institutions and, in particular, the term of office of the general assembly, which should be four - in my opinion - instead of three years, to coincide with the general terms and so should the President's term of office. While the duration of the projects should be determined each time according to the specific work in the notice which will provide for it, without falling into the three-year break, which is provided for in the bill. I also wanted, because I have heard many times that for the first time the research areas are defined by this bill, to recall that, unfortunately, this definition is not in a rational way, because two quite different methods of determining the objects of the sectors are being used at the same time. The first method is that the research areas are well defined: we have, for example, health sciences, and we have other areas, which deal with specific items, which are indeed extremely undetermined and have an inherent undetermined character. What does it mean for environment and sustainable development? And finally, we have no mention of what innovative entrepreneurship means. I am closing the remarks on the articles by saying that a Director-General is not allowed to cease only by a majority of the Scientific Council. A procedure should be anticipated which is heavier. I now come to a few words - because time has almost passed - on the subject of the amendments relating to education. First of all, Mr Minister, I must tell you that I am very sorry that the Ministry continues to resort to this procedure of amendments, instead of bringing them to a quiet discussion and we have a real exchange of views, even though we disagree on the issues that are being discussed. Subject: Relocations. I personally believe that there should be no translations to the universities. We drown the universities with a number of student seats that universities can't teach. The proposed positions are more than doubled, and this must once be stopped. I understand that right now it is very difficult in a family with children studying in different places to say: 'pay, to be your children in two different cities'. I would have preferred to have given these children compensation to the place they have chosen to study and not to come to other universities, which are burdening them, without the universities being able to meet the student's request for quality knowledge. I think that the Ministry should be directed towards a solution to this. As long as there is no provision to support students who need to be close to their families, because they have excellent weaknesses, I prefer what you are bringing here, but I stress that this cannot be a permanent solution. I wanted to make a comment on the permanentization...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u247	And finish, Mr. Fortsaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u248	I shall conclude, Mr President, in less than half a minute. I wanted to make a comment on the permanentisation of the assistant professors, which has been foreseen lately. They have remained, Minister, remarkably, the assistant professors who did not apply for development, for simulation, because they believed they would develop in the direct process that allowed them to become substitutes. Now, with the new regulation - I am not going to go into whether there should be any new regulation, whether it stands or not, but if there is a new regulation, which is being implemented at this time - those who have not applied for permanentisation, if the legislation is implemented, cannot apply for development or for permanentisation. It is therefore 'in the air'. You need to see this. We at the Athens School of Law, for example, have misused the applications and hope that the Ministry will not object, but the procedure is 'in the air'. So you need to see what is going to happen with those who did not apply, when there was the provision for an application, because they thought they could develop without an application, and now their deadline has elapsed. They're leaving? You need to see this with your advisers. It is an important issue and employs a large number of assistant teachers at the university.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u249	And this is what I ask you to finish, Mr. Fortsaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u250	I conclude by saying that the issues of permanentity with personal positions were well done and you took them back. While for the other two amendments which you have brought, namely the possibility of taking part as a peer, we agree - I personally agree - that there is a possibility for them to be involved in the investigation. As for the issue of the equivalence of the teacher's diploma, of course, this is not equal to a postgraduate degree, but perhaps, for reasons of leniency, it should be accepted. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, too. Minister Dritsas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to present the amendment to the general number 697 and a special 81 of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, which the other co-legislators also sign up to. First of all, it is an amendment tabled in good time, from 12-10-2016. The House has all the time to study it. It's not in an irrelevant bill. It is in a bill from the Ministry of Education in general for education. Evidently, maritime education is an area that is primarily responsible for the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, but it is widely and in a special sense for an educational process. It doesn't overthrow anything fundamental. It concerns regulation and improvements overtime, compulsory and pressing now and urgently, I would say, given that the amendment was ready from the summer, but precisely because we did not want to table it in bills where it did not fit, we did not find the way to come to Parliament earlier. Now it is absolutely essential and I urge you to vote for it, given that it really solves problems and does not cause problems. It solves ripe problems - and I explain, in general, the issues it regulates: First of all, in connection with the creation of five new organic positions for the positions of Directors at the Centres for Training of Commercial Navy Executives, which is absolutely essential. With Presidential Decree 103/2014, which literally cut off by the previous government on the basis of the memoranda of guidelines, many important interventions were made, which in many areas, critical and serious, a precondition for dismantling. What can I tell you? Organic positions in maritime education were two hundred and eighty-five with the previous presidential decree and were limited to eighty. If possible, first shipping power in the world Greece, maritime training should be a central lever of shipping and organic positions should be restricted so drastically, with such a towel! And not only that, but it seems that the initiators of this presidential decree of the New Democracy also had anti-individual education concepts - a new Summerhill wanted! - and they dismantled the managers. What can I say? That is what the amendment calls for. It is so necessary, because managers have the main responsibility for the implementation of educational programmes, for the settlement of student issues, for the abolition of timetables. It's the Rules of Procedure. They alone can do these things and they don't exist. The one thing that regulates is that and at last we have been able to make five new organic positions. Awesome! While, indeed, I agree with Mr Carras - I was not here, but I was informed that he intervened - the issue is open. It needs constants for maritime education, as in other sectors and sectors, to function in terms of organic positions and permanent training staff. Sure. And we are in this direction to shape terms and conditions. The process has begun and with the co-legislative ministries, precisely in order to achieve an increase, in the new conditions of organic positions, which is not the big public, recruitment. It's completely rewarding for these things. It can't be without that running the production machine. Maritime education is directly linked to the productive activity of shipping. We're not getting out of the unemployed school. On the contrary, we need captains, engineers, etc. and trainees then. So that is absolutely necessary and yet it has been cut off. And now we have to say whether she's valid or anything. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The remaining arrangements concern incorporation of requirements resulting from the implementation of the International STCW Manila 2010 which regulate individual small-scale issues, but important for the proper functioning of schools and for the harmonious integration of international rules with these issues, as well as a number of issues arising from practice. One of these is what has become widely known, which in Preveza could not be obtained by graduates from such malfunctions, which we regulate. That is why I believe that Parliament will have no reason to vote on this amendment, which is only in its direction of solving problems and not creating or illustrating a specific option. We have a working group set up responsiblely and officially, with a ministerial decision, from me, for maritime education, and within a short time we will be able to present the findings of this working group, in order to put forward a process of upgrading. In the meantime - and I conclude, Mr President - we have taken a great deal of steps in maritime education, resolving individual issues in both building and equipment and integration into the ESDP programmes and reintroducing the pass for students of the Athens School, which had been abolished for many years, and restoring the functioning of all the Mechanical Buildings and the creation - which we are planning and launching - of a new KESEN Northern Greece in Macedonia, in Mechania, and many others, which are in motion. But they are already institutionalised and operating and others are moving. With regard to the comment Mr Delis made from the Communist Party of Greece and I was informed about it, I would like to say this. Naval education has many problems and is no longer a strong chapter in order to meet the needs. However, the fact that it is returned to the shipowners is no longer true. It's just maintained even badly. This should also be regulated by law. For three years the Greek Shipowners' association has been abrogated for this amount, which was returned through a setback. For the rest, I understand the trade union claims. I speak with the student representatives very often at the Ministry. Many of their demands have been resolved, some others are on the way to resolve them. The trade union claim is always legitimate and necessary, it is zoonic, because it keeps matters open. We must not, however, assume politically that there is a stagnation. There is considerable progress and a great difference in what was before, with the previous governments, and what is now, with our own government. Mr President, I also put forward some legislative improvements which, as you will see and which this House will see, are just a correction of sinful ones and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates, thirty-five students and students and three educational attendants from Velestino Magnesia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Georgadas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are times when you feel weak to express your arguments for a clear violation not just of existing legislation and of good legislature, but of common sense. A month ago Mr Vernardakis brought an amendment to extend the contracts for a certain period of cleaning time to the municipalities. Today this amendment is Article 16 of the bill you have before you. Let's get something straight. Under Article 103 of the Constitution and the relevant provisions of laws, there is indeed provision for a type of work called ‘determined time and work contract’. Usually they're cleanliness contracts, when there's a need for a body for this contract. Usually it is summer months in Greece, with more people, who have more tourism or even winter seasons in some other regions. For these contracts, which are fully reciprocating and are about the cleaning charges levied by each municipality, each municipal council was able to decide their number and duration. Usually the criteria of these contracts are social, and they are made with ASP criteria, usually eight months, which are subsequently renewed with other contractors, as basic unemployment time is needed to be chosen. So while the course of things has been in place so far, and each municipal council has had the opportunity to define and plan these needs and the municipal fees it collects to pay these workers and at the same time it can also make a renewal of the waste water fleet, perhaps, which has suddenly come the government and - I repeat - I will say one thing twice - without any requests from the relevant bodies, i.e. without any requests from the CED, without any requests from the municipalities, without any requests from the stakeholders, it extends all cleaning contracts which were completed at the end of 2015 and then within 2016, until the end of 2016. Expansions were given even to people who went by a two - month contract to serve a certain purpose of urgency. I would like to make it clear that the bimenis in particular are not recruited at all at any rate in the AACC, not even socially. It's a simple choice for the Head of Office. This extension became self-justified on the part of the Ministry, in breach of Article 102 of the Constitution, which says that the municipalities have administrative and financial autonomy. When the municipality does not say that it needs something or, even if it needs to, has the opportunity to do the notice and to hire them for the period for which they are wanted, as provided for in the procedures, why is this extension, when the recruitment of permanent staff in cleanliness has been excluded from the rule prohibiting appointments? You should know that only in cleaning and cleaning machinery operators - when I talk about cleaning, I mean them all - by order of this government in May 2016, the recruitment of permanent staff has been excluded and indeed without a cabinet act, i.e. any municipality who wants to have permanent staff on the basis of ASP criteria. Instead of allowing the municipalities to determine their needs, to ask for permanent staff under the AACC procedure and to take it, to request a certain period of time when they are needed, the government comes and does so, without any of the municipalities asking for it. In support of what I have said, I give you two announcements, one by Mr Patoulis as President of the Central Association of Municipalities and Communities and a resolution by the ETUC, namely the Regional Association of Municipalities, the Central Macedonia, who are quite clearly saying that they disagree with this arrangement. [[At this point Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] While the Minister comes to the debate and brings this amendment to the committee, at least allowing these recruitments to be made on the basis of the available credits for each municipality, today comes and takes it back. We saw this for the first time. A month ago, the amendment comes in alpha. The Minister's intercepting her. It restores it corrected and at least leaves it to the municipalities, based on the available credits, to hire the world and it is now coming and changing it. He's getting the funds back. They say the municipalities: 'If you want to take them automatically', we all want this, 'give the money to be done'. The central government does not give the money to the municipalities, to keep some for twelve or twenty-four months when it takes them for five months. He doesn't give the money, self-righteously. It's just one thing. In both amendments one thing has been left the same, the provision that says 'by way of derogation'. It is the way Mr Vernardakis likes to legislate, by way of derogation, on any general and specific provisions. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] We come here today to look like the bad guys and some other good ones. But fixed-term contracts are provided for. If a municipality wants permanent staff, it can do so without anyone preventing it. I was asking the Minister in committee: 'What municipalities, who had this request, to see if they are being listened to, what difficulty is it in doing their job and making it easier for them?' He's not answering me. Why isn't he answering? Because it has only one purpose, it creates a new generation of hostage contract staff, who are looking forward to a permanentisation, but it is a expectation that, based on the legal regime at the moment, it is impossible to do so, because it also contradicts Article 103 of the Constitution and Article 164/2004. At the moment, a generation of such hostages is being created and two categories of mayors are being created, the good mayors and the bad ones, but perhaps everyone is becoming bad, because, to pay all of them, by the end of 2017, many of them will be forced to increase municipal fees. For this absurd amendment, which has brought it in the way it was, which has changed it, at least at a level that is bearable, we would like simply to formulate 'by decision of the municipal council' so that we can accept it. So instead of having at least the words 'by decision of the city council', it is not at all. Mr. Vernardakis comes by himself and prolongs thousands of contractors and see who will pay them, but Mr. Vernardakis wants today, at no price, to be the good guy. The continuation will be in the mayors. There are mayors who cannot cope with this obligation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the articles and amendments in a bill, which - to remind you of this - was marked on Friday evening by an amendment which was then withdrawn for the National Broadcasting Council. We have before us the process of both the Council of State and the procedures and the effort to establish a National Broadcasting Council. I mean the following. This process through the blackmails and surprises of the government, such as the specific amendment tabled, which remains on the table, as many members of the government are saying, are a attitude which cannot be consensual. It's the exact opposite. It cannot be done either by surprise or by extortion, a process which wants 4/5 at the Conference of Presidents. On the other hand, the New Democracy follows a sterile refusal to do so. What's he saying? ‘I do not consent in any way to the establishment of the National Broadcasting Council unless the law is invalidated’. We say that a National Broadcasting Council must be set up, but first there must be the decision of the Council of State. To reach agreement between the political forces and here, particularly the SYRIZA and the New Democracy, as required by the 4/5 at the Conference of Presidents. Otherwise, going to a pretext procedure, which will lead to de facto - since SYRIZA and New Democracy disagree with such confrontation - the non-solution and non-incorporation of the National Broadcasting Council, is of no benefit to anyone. So SYRIZA will leave the surprises and blackmails, and the New Democracy will have this sterile refusal in the discussion process, so that it can proceed and set up a National Television Council. I come to the essence of the matter, because I have heard some arguments, such as the lack of order in the irresponsible television field and had to go in. But that's not a class. It's not a class where money comes in. It is not a class to enter a process that has no other criteria at the moment. And, of course, with regard to the arguments I have heard today by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, such as, for example, the ERT 'black' in relation to 'black' at the moment in private channels, I would say that, if the decision were applied and if the five-day decision were implemented, we will have in five days 'black' in private channels, including sustainable businesses that have employees and work. Hundreds of workers will find themselves in unemployment. We cannot hear any arguments comparing this 'black' to 'black' to the ERT, which we have clearly said is a attitude which has not helped at that point in time. SYRIZA did not come if I am not mistaken, as at least the ministers and MPs say, to bring arguments, such as "in the New Democracy you did and "Black" to ERT", nor, of course, "Remember what you were saying about the employees of 2013, why you are talking only about his workers now." What we must all say is that the public and private workers are not in a different colour - and of course we must agree on it, that they are not in a different colour - and that black is the same, whether they are in the ERT or they are in the private channels. That is why we also need to pursue a policy on television media and finally to change this logic of the government, which is - you will allow me to say this - re-insurgent. Because I am 'closing in the dressing room' and I am glad that I am closing in the businesspeople' - I am talking about the Prime Minister's statement - is a misguided logic. What we want is a rule of law everywhere, and this practice must be followed, so that it can actually enter an anarchist television field, which is what is needed. Ladies and gentlemen, in this environment of tension at all levels - it is not the time today and this bill, it is the geopolitical field, the provocative statements made by Mr Erdogan and many other issues - we are discussing a bill on education and research. I believe that if we do not decide to have a national strategy on this issue, it will not be possible for the country to come out of the crisis, if we do not start, that is, at least from education. It has the ambitious goal of stopping the "mind fleeing" and giving incentives to stay to young scientists. That is why we voted in principle yesterday. That's the attitude we're holding in today's bill. Of course, we are placed on the articles where we have specific disagreements. Who could, moreover, disagree with the objective of stopping'mind escape', strengthening research? The question is, however, to what extent this bill can succeed. This is a bill which, in several articles, has also been analysed by the rapporteur for the Democratic Association, Mr Constantopoulos, is characterised by bureaucracy, by state intervention at certain times, by ambiguities and overlaps. It refers to the establishment of another body with disputed funding for three years, an institution, which we have reason to worry that after this three-year period it may remain inactive. But our main and deepest concern is that, despite the existence of relevant bodies and the imminent creation of another body, there is still no integrated national research strategy, which would lead together with a development strategy and the connection with production. The connection between research and production is the crucial issue, and today, of course, it is not achieved with this bill either. Has the government come up with what areas to stress? The fact that we see, Minister, in Article 8, the sloppy reference to a number of areas confirms the feeling that the choice is being made. Whether our researchers will remain in the country not only ensured by a scholarship or a research programme, but then what happens next. Our young researchers choose abroad to do practical research that they do not find here. They do so in countries that offer all the means, both in human resources and in technical equipment, to countries where the culture of research exists. Does our country meet these conditions so they can stay here? Unfortunately, it does not. Therefore, bills on education and research are being promoted fragmentally, overlapping or inconsistency, so that something can be changed before anything can be voted on. The rough and fragmented legacy finds the absolute expression in the amendments that we have seen. I will not go into the amendment on justice, which we spoke about with Mr Paradoxopoulos a moment ago, and we stressed the issues. The provisions of the amendment on the issues of the relocations of the HEI have been abolished since they were in force. When did they happen? As of 6 September 2016, a law passed two months ago. We are now abolishing him as a parliament. According to these, ICP members were given the right to ask for their membership in a personal position as a lecturer. This is a rough piece of legislation, or it shows a lack of understanding and disagreement from the relevant ministers. It doesn't explain any other way. In fact, you are also making special arrangements on all matters, and you are also giving retroactive effect to this amendment. In a 2013 law, I repeat, retroactive force in the 2013 law. Half the amendments are by way of derogation from the existing provisions and half the exception. We have become the country of 'exceptional', rather the 'extra' country. We can't move like this. I do not want to go back into the matter with Mr Tsakalotos, with whom we had the controversy on the basis of the evidence a moment ago, because he actually told us that he achieved an excellent negotiation and managed to stay in the Greek public. That was the argument he raised. Of course, we will also lose the right to veto, and we will also bring to the amendment today that the amendments to the convention will not go through this House from now on. If this is called an effective negotiation, we should also say congratulations. Education and research therefore require a national strategy. We owe it to the new generation. Once we are aware of this gentleman, we will really be able to legislate properly, respecting the principles of the rule of law and good administration and, of course, giving young people what they really deserve, education - both in primary and in secondary and in higher education - which meets the basic criteria that will aim to make them better and better people and to be able to find jobs so that they can be integrated into the labour market, because at the moment, with the education we have, we cannot achieve it. We have a education that is not linked to the market at all, a education that does not give what it should. We have the material, we have the people, we have the teachers as well as the remarkable scientists, for example, who can give this added value to the country. Finally, let's give them a chance! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Kouzilos has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u258	Thank you very much, Mr President. Research and innovation in Greece, degraded over the years. We had the law of the New Democracy. As we said at the time, he had quite positive points, but it was a simple patch. Same in SYRIZA's law. Our main question at that time was what is going to happen with funding. He said Mr Fotakis that a bill will come soon, which will solve financing issues. I would like to focus on the title and Article 2 of the draft "Greek Research and Innovation Foundation". Its aim is to promote research and innovation in the context of the national strategy. And here we have the question: what national strategy? We are now continuing in Article 2: "The Foundation will finance research projects and finance the purchase of research equipment on the basis of strategic planning". Question, again, here: Equipment, do we think that it will buy new vessels? Equipment is he, too, because it's an instrument for research. In fact, a ship for the ELECT is a mobile laboratory. Will he be able to finance it? One comment: You do not finance, you lend. On 15-7-2016, we have a loan contract signed. That's essential. Also, we need to talk a little bit with simple examples. A university some time ago did an investigation into a Greek unmanned aircraft and a drone, which, if it does not have academic performance, could be financed? Once a Ministries - e.g. the Ministry of Defence, Shipping, the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, Public Order - will they have judged it to be a useful tool, why not take this particular job from a Greek university? Then will this class, department, students, who will not have academic performance, also be able to join? And how would it be important? Should it be a programme that is part of the national strategy, to consider it important? I am asking again the question that, if it does not have academic service, and we consider it important and part of the national strategy, what will happen? It's, I think, some things very simple, for which you might have all the good mood, but practically we'll see that there are pathogens. Continuing to this draft law, I would like to say that in the committee we have heard that it is a real cut-off in order to create a genuinely effective national research strategy. So we stress here again: with what national strategy? With loan? You will tell me that it will come, by means of GDP, twice and three times and we will get the money back sometime, but we stress that there will be an amount of 240 million in the original state budget. We also heard that it is a model of development with a pillar of research and technology. We will say again here that there are many pathogens that we will see in the course of this bill. I would now like to turn to the amendments. Amendment No 701/84 by the Ministry of Defence is another amendment on submarines. The submarines were made with amendments to the substance. Why? Because the state was incapable of legislating and building four submarines, because all the governments were committed to any businessman who took over the Elefsis Shipyards. For the workers, of course, not a word. No one's ever been involved. You remember the announcements in Trina's strikes earlier. Let us ask another question, which we have said several times: who is ultimately responsible for the submarines? Why wasn't a single submarine clause activated? So who do we cover for the submarines? We should go to a second piece, which has something to do with the Department of Defense. What about the PSI? In the Department of Defence, there's the PSI to see what's happened to the equity funds. Finally, I would like to go to Amendment No 657/89 by the Ministry of Shipping. And here we are saying: 'Finally it has come'. It is an amendment that we have been waiting for since June, July. Several people who had been involved had said about this particular problem that there would be. They've been calling it a long time. Unfortunately, the Ministry didn't want to legislate, had its ears closed, wanted to think about it better, but we got to a point that didn't go anymore. Fortunately, this amendment has come last minute. And it would not come so soon, because as the Minister said, "we did not want to table it in an unrelated bill." Yes, but twenty-eight students of senior students who were about to take their degree from AEN Epirus could not take their degree, with all these problems, with the legislative imperfections that many had pointed out. For this reason, I have the true “POLICIAL EHO” to submit to the Minutes, July - August 2016, which highlights the problem. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In a more general context, Minister, you have said many times - and we have told you too - that there are too many problems and we agree that PASOK - New Democracy has broken up maritime education, but here we are, in order to correct them. There is all the wings, I want to believe, a good intention to correct all the problems and all the pathogens. Since summer, we knew that as soon as he arrives in September, everyone will run panic at the Ministry of Maritime Education. Moreover, as far as I know, there are seventeen students who have not received a signature and if they did not do so with AEN Epirus, with the director of studies, they would still not have solved the problem, I believe. Here we are to solve all the problems and all the pathogens. KESEN still has no teachers as far as we know. He has a problem again, even now. There's the problem with the matures. A provision can be made for there to be permanent teachers. There is no maritime education and there are no permanent teachers and we cannot rely on day-to-day people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, I would like to speak on this subject to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u260	Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u261	I made sure, when I spoke to the amendment, that I make such points very briefly. This amendment has been ready since the summer. Everyone knows. It's become known. The Ministry wants to legislate and has delayed us in the fact that there was no bill compatible with this and we do not want to violate, as far as we can, the agreement on good legislation. We take care of it, too, and the other ministers, but pressure is always great. It was also the issue of hourly wages, which was not finally solved in a legislative way and which would be solved within days in another way and resolved within days. From this point of view, the other things I have said in my speech are that, without organic posts and permanent staff, maritime education cannot walk. We have already launched the procedures for thirteen permanent teachers and four private law, in addition to the five that we bring today and continue. The working group on the reform of technical education will give us its findings and there we will open up the debate on the overall upgrading of maritime education in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u262	Good, Minister. The necessary clarifications have been provided. Mr Consolas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, I would like to speak after Mr Consola's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you will all remember in this Chamber that the previous government had tried to table proposals, ideas of research and technology with a broad consensus. I have had the honour of being rapporteur for that bill and by the co-formulators, together with other colleagues, who have tabled serious proposals, in order to have a modern institutional framework, which had been voted on. One would expect that with the presence of Mr Fotakis in the Ministry of Education's leadership, in an important area of the Ministry, there would be continuity in this process, namely that it would create conditions of continuity in this reform effort. The government does not, however, understand the concept of the continuity of the state and shows it with this legislative initiative which it brings here today, in accordance with its vision and practices in the Parliamentary Republic, since dozens of amendments - Mrs Kerameos spoke about this - have been tabled. Above all, however, Minister, one would expect to set in the context of broader democratic dialogue and national dialogue on education important priorities and hierarchical objectives in order to have an overall debate on research issues. It seems the government is acting like a state-of-the-art mentality. These practices, particularly in the field of education and research, remind me that they did not exist in the previous government. He had established, for example, an institute of tourism research based in Rhodes and with an annex to Athens, a legal person of private law, with economic and administrative self-sufficiency, which was designed to develop research activity on the issue of tourism policy in general, but above all tourism development, while our tourism lacks the existence of both a research centre and the possibility of a think tank, which will give him the impetus and support of entrepreneurs and workers in the industry. The establishment of the Institute of Rhodes-based Tourism Research was an absolutely realistic proposal, since, with the application of this and the promotion of the future of this Institute, it would be possible for a lasting, stable tourism policy. The government did the same with university tourism. He canceled the previous government's attempt to establish two sections, an English-speaking and Greek-speaking, in Rhodes and Crete - based in Rhodes, in particular - and evaporated this prospect. So the institute referred to the bells, with the aim of canceling it before it was even created. I am referring, Minister, to a body which did not have a financial cost, since administrative and financial self-sufficiency was foreseen, since it would also cooperate with private initiative and be based on it. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill you bring - to pass to the end of the bill - you are abolishing and canceling the role of the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology, since by establishing and operating the Greek Institute for Research and Innovation it is a presumption that the Secretariat-General is overlaps, but in particular its responsibilities and functions. I heard the Minister in committee use two main arguments for the creation of the Hellenic Institute of Research and Innovation. The first argument, from what we all remember, was that by this bill we will limit the leaving abroad of the most brilliant scientists and especially young people, since through the loan agreement for research and innovation and with the possibility of the contract with the European Investment Bank, there will be resources available for the development of research and innovation. But I would like to say to you, Minister, that the problem was not so much in the lack of resources, but in the lack of a new institutional framework for research and innovation, which would not work in a safe and non-discriminatory manner. However, this institutional framework has been created by us, with Mr.4310/2014, would encourage and strengthen excellence and the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, in a way that has long been overturning it and depreciating it. The second argument put forward by the Minister in committee was, if we understood correctly, that the European Investment Bank which concludes the loan contract with the Greek State does not trust the Greek State. That is why the Hellenic Foundation for Research and Innovation should be set up. If anyone reads the minutes, that's what they understand. If not, let the Minister tell us. But, Minister, I would like to tell you that, if there is doubt and mistrust of European institutions and credit institutions with regard to the country, this is due to the practices and inconsistencies of this government. The New Democracy is not opposed to the loan contract to provide funds and funds for research and innovation. However, it has serious objections to a number of issues such as: Firstly, the fact that a new body is being set up at the time of the General Secretariat for Research and Technology. Secondly, the fact that this new institution is becoming virtually uncontrolled and is exclusively subject to the Minister. There is not even a pretext of an independent authority and functioning. Thirdly, the fact that the suspicion - if not the certainty - is suspended that this institution will channel the funds of the loan contract where the government wants. Fourthly, the fact that, until the institutions of this institution are established, they will all be decided by the Minister, followed by the Director-General of the institution, who will be able to do any intake he wishes, by bypassing, if necessary, the Scientific Council. Fifth, the fact that the General Accounting Office of the State cannot determine the costs and costs for the establishment of the institution concerned. But why? Because you yourself have just imposed and suspended ambiguity on this matter. It's obvious the purposes that are undercover. There is a diffuse perception that a state-of-the-art mentality is established, once again, in the government's choices. Even in individual provisions, such as the possibility of objecting on the part of the Minister for the persons proposed by the universities for the general meeting of the institution, the objective is obvious. It is the suffocating party control that even wants to be imposed on this new structure of research and technology. In other words, we have heard Members from the government's majority talking about the exercise and the need to implement in the country of an independent research institution. How independent, however, is research with these provisions? How close are these provisions of suffocating party control and political control with international standards? The bill also reflects the ideological component that is always present in the government's legislative initiatives. And in the day-to-day policy practice of this government there is no possibility and reference to partnerships and synergies with the private initiative in the field of research and innovation. Nowhere in the world is there a state-owned research area that operates in a waterproof and exclusion from private initiative. What would you mind if there were private fund funding for the institution? Ladies and gentlemen, research cannot remain detached from the real economy and the market. That is why, Minister, it is good to adopt opinions from the previous bill and not cancel the previous reforms that were directed towards the government majority of the previous Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u265	Mr Davakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, I would like to ask a question on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u267	Here, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, for a question, as you have said, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u268	We are voting in an hour and we do not yet have any information on what amendments will be accepted, we would also like to know and take up the position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u269	We have already reached agreement with the Minister. Mr Davakis, I would ask you to be patient, because the Minister asked, at the time Mr Consolas spoke, to intervene after Mr Consolas for something in relation to the amendments. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u270	I would like to say which parliamentary amendments we are accepting. The amendment under general number 692 and a special number 77 cannot be accepted. It concerns the extension of contracts for the service of needs and others. The general number 694 and specific number 78, the possibility of the peers of HEI participating in research programmes, etc., is accepted. The general number 695 and specific number 79, the possibility of attending the theoretical and laboratory examinations of the students of the Department of Electrology at the merged section of the Central Greece TEI, is accepted, with a legal improvement that I must read to you, in order to make a decision to the Members. ‘Article 87 of Law 4413/2016 is replaced by the following: For the implementation of the provisions of e.g.100/2013 entitled "Lamia TEI and TEI of Chalkidas at TEI of Central Greece - Establishment of a School - Establishment of a Department - Merger of Schools - Rename and Merger of Sections - Elimination of Annexes and Sections, Creation of Schools of Central Greece", according to which... and following the amendment. Added that. The general number 704 and special 85, the equivalent of the degree in Municipal Education and Primary Education in a postgraduate capacity, I wanted to say that at this stage it is not accepted. It will be discussed to see the academic criteria in a next bill of the Ministry of Education. Finally, the general number 712 and special 90 suspension of the confiscation of immovable property under conditions, etc., cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Minister. Minister, I would ask you to put forward the legislative improvements to the amendment you have already mentioned, on 695, to table them in order to get the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u272	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u274	Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor to refer quickly to the amendment tabled yesterday by the Ministry of National Defence on submarines. First of all, however, I would like to address a number of issues raised by this bill, which are mainly institutional issues and the general functioning of this Chamber. There are no more bills, ladies and gentlemen. There are bills which are vehicles and every time we come we legislate on amendments on the basis of bills. I heard Mr Dritsa, who said, if I understood correctly, that we were 'we were seeking related to the bill - an amendment to table it on maritime education'. I think that this is also a mistake in the role and institutional functioning of this House, since we and the rapporteurs who are not too much of a slap in the way of the amendments must finally understand this process and this method. Because I'm afraid...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u275	The amendments to the Rules of Procedure are provided for.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u276	Please don't interrupt, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u277	Yes, Minister, the amendments are laid down, but you too, because I appreciate you, I believe you think that the matter is now out of the question and we are now talking about legislation which is vehicles. Because you interrupted me, I would like to tell you about maritime education: is it all good for maritime education in the country? What is being done each year with both students and the issues of practice, which call us many children, graduates of maritime schools to intervene in shipowners, in order for them to practice, is something that takes pride in the Ministry of Shipping's political leadership? Clearly I am sure you will tell me what you have done. We did so much so that naval training in our country is working so far. Clearly, things have not been completed. Clearly, there are issues that need to be corrected. Clearly there are issues which have been wrong and must be corrected again. That is why the governments in the country are rotating in order to correct both the sinners and the ones that have been omitted. But you realise that the constant references to the past do not lead anywhere and the place and the country and the political groups. In conclusion - because I said that I wanted to talk about the amendment on submarines - I would like to refer to Mr Fotakis - which obviously, Minister, you have a deep knowledge of the research community because of your experience and your path - and I would like to say that this legislative initiative has been imposed by our lenders and partners...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u278	How do you come to that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u279	I'll explain. Because they do not have confidence in the absorption of Community programmes from existing structures. However, if we look at this, I would like to ask the extent to which this legislative initiative is consistent with the existing research community in our country so far. And there are so many things that we could say and which, unfortunately, I do not know whether they are solved with this particular particular point - I would say - by placing this legislative initiative in the research community in general. I believe that this is an attempt in the right direction, despite the serious reservations of the New Democracy - and that is why we have this attitude, as has been rightly formulated by the Parliamentary representative and the draftsman of the bill - but, in any case, we should also look more closely at the research community, for example, the National Research Foundation with its centres, Democritus, and many others which, unfortunately, have huge problems. I come to the amendment on submarines. The amendment that appeared yesterday by Mr. Vitsa, Deputy Minister of National Defence, extends the work programme of the submarines, a programme launched in the spring of 2014 by New Democracy, so that - finally - the issue called “four submarines”, “Pine”, “Océan”, “Matrozos” and “Kosonis” will be ending and will be worthwhile within the operational framework. This program is extended until May 2017, specifying that a number of operations other than necessary will take place at the premises of the Greek shipyards instead of the Salamis Shipyard. This regulation essentially ensures that workers in shipyards will continue to work and will continue to work, who are workers with special skills, with great know-how on the subject, which will further donate the winter heavy industry and the ship repairs sector. For this reason alone, the New Democracy supports this amendment, in order to keep this precious workforce of the Scaramag shipyards active, and to give a breath to the situation that is further in the Scaramaga Shipbuilding Area, because, ladies and gentlemen, we need these special hands, these people who must continue to work on this subject. It will not be the first time that the New Democracy will support such an effort. However, because we have a traumatic experience of the past, which you are giving us for positive votes of the past - summer 2015 and so on - we must draw attention to the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence - which is absent, but should be someone from the political leadership here - on certain issues, such as the government having great responsibilities because it has left things up to here - and as was quite rightly said - and has left the submarines to be built, a huge operational weapon for the Navy, by means of amendments. The solution proposed by the government with this amendment has a risk. A part of the argument Safah, of the so far employer, is the claim that the 75.5 million of the March 2014 agreement is inadequate for the construction of submarines. Today, then, we come and legislate another 15 million, thereby creating the risk of resolving this development in arbitration, which will be dealt with in March 2017, as confirmation of the argument on the opposite side. The risk of this action is becoming even more pronounced than the fact that Safa has appealed to an arbitration tribunal, in a new arbitration procedure, which will be discussed on 5 July. This situation is the result of the government's inability to come up with a complete plan for a long-term solution to the shipyards for twenty months. Unfortunately, this weakness has brought it to the point that it is "with the back of the wall" and a valuable workforce and a huge issue regarding the submarines, still pending or, if you like, in a court dispute with the other side. Every day it is becoming increasingly evident that the cost of this inertia and some ideological strangles has brought us here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I close and draw attention to the pensioners' amendments. They must see the matter in the explanatory memorandum to paragraph 6 - I say it about the Minutes, because, unfortunately, there is no representative of the Ministry - because work is being done beyond what is necessary for the completion of the submarines and they are done with the consent of the company's representatives. We do not know whether that is true in terms of consensus. In any case, it is well known that the agreement provided that it was only for submarines and not for other tasks and must certainly be particularly careful. At least, remove these two expressions from paragraph 6 of this amendment. In conclusion, I would like to address my warmest condolences to the family of the Captain of the Air Force, Sotiris Antonopoulos, the handler of the Super Puma, who lost his life so gloriously at this age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Two parliamentary representatives, the remaining Mr Kammenos and Mr Amyras, have been asked to speak. We shall give the floor to Mr Kammenos, who also takes part in a committee now, after consultation with Mr Amyras. Mr Amyras will then be followed and we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, do the parliamentary representatives have a right of dentistry, even short?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u282	We do not deny Parliamentary representatives any secondary or any intervention. If you judge or if some parliamentary representatives consider that they want to intervene, very gladly, there is no question, as long as we do not exceed time. Here, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u283	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Independent Greeks in this bill for the Foundation for Research and Innovation and other provisions we have only positive comments to make. You will forgive me for the delay, but I was in the committee of inquiry. We are all involved - and we from the small parties - in all the committees and I have to go again. I'll be brief. It is a step forward in many directions. The most important direction of all, I think, is that this country, after the sufferings that have passed over the last six years, needs to bear provisions that will be a magnet of knowledge. Knowledge magnet is not to continue, in short, to leave our people abroad. For what it is about innovation, scholarships and the general strategy that we need to have on research and technology issues, we need to lay the foundations today, so that in a fair, fair and impartial way, but above all in a manner that is right, in relation to anyone's academic duties or obligations - from wherever they come - they can go under a view of legality and reasonableness in order for this country now to acquire a pillar of development. No foreign investment will come to Greece, let alone investments which are not staff intensive, but are intensified of knowledge or capital on other issues, such as theoretically, if you want, research and technology, for example, as regards the issues of medicines and patents, which are included around the pharmaceutical industry and what it has to do with medical schools. I am taking one example in which our country is all aware that it has the best indicator of knowledge, efficiency and the best experience - one of the best in the world - with doctors and nurses and pharmaceutical staff. If you want, you can see the stats. There you will find that most of the people who left Greece were doctors and dentists, i.e. people of the medical profession, rather than any other specialty. These people must be brought back, because right now in the European Union, Mr Ministers, there are huge funds for research and technology specifically on medical matters. Such are the issues of surgery, paramedics, intensive care units, new patents, new technologies. Also, there are programs in terms of medicines. Greece can become the attraction of these programs, because in our country we have given birth to the sciences, let alone the school and the oath that all doctors give. And I insist on this because I know the subject very well and I know how it can be financed, because here, as throughout the world, all doctors swear to Hippocrates, which we must honour in this way. As far as the other amendments are concerned, the Independent Greeks are voting in favour of them. In order not to waste your time any more, I will only make two notes on OTE and the "DEUTSCHE TELEKOM" and the transfer of the percentage. We find no reason at this time to object to this transfer. Today we also had meetings with the agency's trade unions, but also with other bodies which expressed their concerns. We have already noted reservations, which we will discuss in the day and tomorrow morning, and we will contact the relevant ministries. It is not something I need to mention at the moment, so that Parliament and the honourable Members are involved. What the Greek Government needs to know, but also all of us, is that at the moment OTE is a strategic organisation, a huge investment in Greece. Investments in infrastructure and new networks continue to be made. In fact, new far-reaching networks are being built, which will take place in the next few years for growth. Because one of the pillars of development, as you know, is technology and infrastructure. OTE, but also competing companies must invest in Greece on these pillars. It is therefore an investment that we must support, and from now on we must also see its strategic character in relation to the security that is provided for communications. This government must be particularly sensitive to the way in which it ensures the security of telecommunications and communications both at the political and civil level and at the military level. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are close to the government to advise and consult. And I ask both the Civic Opposition and all colleagues, when they have some ideas or complaints specific to creative criticism on the issues of national strategy and national security regarding the role of OTE, to bring them to the government and to see them together, so that we can implement them for the good of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-nine students and schoolchildren and four school attendants from the 4th General High School of Agrinio. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, may I say a few words about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u286	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u287	In order to close this issue, I will announce which ministerial amendments will be put to the vote: The amendment with a general number of 688 and a special 75, which also exists in Article 15. The amendment with a general number of 689 and a special 76, which also exists in Article 16. The amendment with a general number of 696 and a special 80, which also exists in Article 17. The amendment with a general number 697 and a special 81. The amendment with a general number of 698 and a special 82. The amendment with a general number 700 and a special number 83. The amendment with a general number 701 and a special number 84. The amendment with a general number 709 and a special 87. The amendment with a general number 710 and a special 88. Finally, the amendment of a general number 708 and a special number 86 has been withdrawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u288	The Parliamentary spokesman from Potami Mr Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u289	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, earlier this morning I had taken the floor, asking for clarifications from Minister Tsakalotos, who came later on on on the OTE amendment. So, as has emerged both from the Minister's replies and from the course of discussion that began immediately, this is a serious and important matter. I am therefore saying here that the amendment you have brought us under general number 710 and specific number 88 does the following three things: Firstly, it transfers 5% of the shares that the Greek State owns, from a total of 6% of which it holds in OTE, to TEIDE. So we have the first question to ask for an answer, which did not come from the Minister's prototype: 5% that goes to the TIPID of the shares held by the Greek State at OTE, that is, twenty-four million five hundred seven thousand five hundred twenty-six hundred shares, what will be going on with these shares? And let us not forget that the stock market value of these shares - as other colleagues have pointed out - is in Nadir. Why do you choose now that OTE shares have fallen on the floor to make this transition? That is the first question. Secondly, why are you changing Article 21?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u290	Answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u291	He didn't answer, Minister, to come back! After all, I was the first to rethink it. So I'm watching it with the microscope, not unsuckled. Well, you change Rule 21- with this amendment of the contract between the public and its Germans "DUTSCHE TELEKOM" as it had been ratified in 2008 by Law3676- and you predict that now "any amendment or differentiation or resignation from any shareholders' agreement will not require that it be ratified by law by Parliament." What does that mean by simple words? That the Parliament, the three hundred MPs, the parliamentary parties will have no say of the new building complex between OTE and Greek public, German and Greek. And I would like to ask why the Minister who is negotiating, as you tell us hard with the partners, has come from an address from the Commission and is still in a hurry to meet the request? Aren't they technocrats? Aren't these low-ranking officials, as you were saying on every occasion, whether they are serious or the less serious? How does your proud negotiation of a Commission address calling for harmonisation - not compulsory, I stress - with what is going on in some European countries and not all the twenty-seven? Thirdly, and most importantly. When we talk about the COSMOTE and of course OTE in particular, we are talking about national security issues. We are also talking about the confidentiality of telecommunications, its security. We are also talking about the extraordinary dividends that will be decided by the administration, making a proposal at the general meeting and giving the shareholders. We are also talking about takeovers, mergers of subsidiaries. We are also talking about changing OTE's seat. It is something that the ministers have not discussed here in the Chamber and perhaps they do not know. After this agreement, and since the public will become aware of its role of having a strategic involvement in the administration and a decisive reason, along with the removal of the right and the obligation - I would say - Parliament must check any such contract, namely between Greek public and foreign investors, the Germans 'DeuTSCHE TELEKOM', now we come to sign and vote - which we will not vote on - that the new administration will be able to decide and change the seat. Where do you intend to take OTE to Bulgaria, following the checks and orders of the OAU commander who said that those Greeks cannot afford and pay the insurance contributions to go to Bulgaria? He should go to Bulgaria, not the Greek businessmen who are trying and struggling, between deterioration and incorruption, with a vicious, evil state, with a client system and anxiety everywhere, beating them backwards, and showing them the exit door. Uh, no, we don't change country. To change the country those who cannot deal with the problems. And I'm ending up. 4% of OTE's shares remain in IKA. Yes, sir. Did the Minister tell us that it was okay what happened that 5%, of the 6% owned by the Greek State, would go to TIADE? We've got 4% of the IKA shares he owns in his portfolio. So I ask: has IKA been asked to conclude a new agreement with the Greek State and to set up other strategic cooperation with the Germans? Tell us, so we can understand that you've done a preparation and don't speak to us in words of the air. We are voting against this amendment. We think it's completely wrong. Don't hide behind words and after you tell us you're making a tough and proud negotiation, prove it here. But what am I saying? Here you have failed to convince the Europeans, the institutions, the troika, as you say to them, and the Americans, of course, to rid the "Smile of the Child" and the other social institutions from HIS. Right here to OTE, will you stick to it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, I would like the floor for a correction.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u294	Here you go, Minister. Correction for what?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u295	The Bureau shall be informed. I would just like to inform the House that the legislative improvements concern the Ministerial Amendment number 700 and not 300, as was wrongly said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u296	Good. Come on, Mrs. Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I shall refer to the amendment on which the Minister has briefly announced to this House that it will not be accepted. Of course, I am referring to the amendment tabled by the New Democracy on the issue of first home auctions. There was no explanation given by the Minister, of course. I think - if I am not mistaken - that Mr Fotakis has said that he will not be examined today because a government initiative will come at some point. Allow me, when I hear that a matter will be resolved by the government, I remember that the Memorandum would be torn down, I remember that there would be a tenth pension, I remember a parallel programme, and more recent things, such as the fact that the pensioners to whom the CSCE cut down, 70 million in the next two years and the preliminary draft budget came and that only 18 million people this year and nothing for 2017 would have been given. Obviously, I am simply saying that the problem of the Government is not that it does not want any amendments to today's bill, because I note here that they have been tabled to the bill and they have been accepted on the ten ministerial amendments, from Mr Tsakalotos, Mr Stathakis, Mr Alexiadis, to whom we, Mr Phile, Mr Baltas, Mr Vitsa, Papa, Mr Spirtzi. In other words, the entire Ministerial Council has brought amendments to the bill, but the parliamentary amendment brought by the New Democracy is rejected briefly. To explain why this is important, I am therefore referring to the content of the amendment. So this amendment provides that until 31/12/2017 the confiscation of immovable property by taxpayers and natural persons having public debts is suspended, provided that certain cumulative conditions are met: first, this property serves as a main residence and then there are very reasonable income criteria and criteria relating to the objective value of the property. So this amendment is coming - and that is why we have brought it - to deal with a concern that Greek society is currently facing, someone's agony to lose their home, the anxiety of auctions. Of course, the government does not hear this scream of agony, judging by the statements made by the relevant Minister, Mr Alexiadis. What did Mr Alexiadis say about auctions? He said it was wild stories. Let's take a look at this. According to the Bank of Greece of 240 billion loans in Greece, 108.2 billion are non-performing. That's a 45.1% rate. The 45 billion of these non-performing loans are housing loans. And I am referring to these, because it is likely that housing has a mortgage on the first residence possibly. So, there are four hundred twenty thousand Greeks and Greek women at the moment, according to a survey by the newspaper "Kathimerini", who do not serve their housing loans. Are these the savages to which Mr Alexiadis refers?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u298	No, it's not them.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u299	To Minister Alexiadis, who says that auctions are wild stories, and to you who are commenting, Mr. Colleague, I answer that the world at the moment is afraid that the wilds have come to extinguish the day, he is afraid of losing his home. I would also like to point out this: let us see exactly what Mr Tsipras' government has done on the issue of first residence. For the days of the previous government, there were two pillars of protection for the first residence. There was Katseli law and there was also Law No.4224/2013, the well-known Hatzidakis regulation, which provided a horizontal self-righteous protection of the first residence. So what does the Tsipra government do? It completely abolishes the one pillar, the Hatzidakis arrangement, and what is it doing with the Katseli law? With L.4346/2015, with Article 14 in particular, what is he doing? It limits the Katseli law, increasing the income limit so that one can join the law, also increasing the objective value of the property. So what's going on? Fewer people can join the law of Katseli. And, more important than that, what else does? He puts a expiry date in the law of Katseli, in 2018. In other words, after 2018, there is not even the second pillar of protection. And because people are worried that the wilds have come to throw out the days, while no house was before 'no house in the hands of a banker' and 'the market crows', what did he do too? It allowed the sale of loans to funds and protects until December 31st 2017 only loans that have as a guarantee of first residence at an objective value of EUR 140,000. And that allows the funds in the meantime to manage them so that they can prepare and be very ready for the funds so that they can auction them with the expiry of the protection. That is what the government has done for the first residence so far. And while we are listening today to the shout of anguish which Greek society emits on the issue of the auctions, which the business world, which Mr Stathakis is systematically stumbled upon, delaying a year and a half to bring any regulation on red loans for companies, which leads businesses, which have managed to keep up with this extermination tax, while, therefore, you are mocking the business world, you are coming today and say briefly that this amendment is not accepted. This is the government's response to the shouting of agony in the world. And well, Mr Alexiadis and Maximou do not listen to the cry of agony in the world. What are you SYRIZA Members doing? Don't you hear people worry about auctions? You probably don't listen to them, because you're in Maximus, at the various cocktail parties, and you sing and dance and eat candy or cheese. I guess that's why you don't hear the screams of agony. Get out to your constituencies a little, and you'll see if it's wild stories that people are worried about losing their homes. Mr President, as President Mitsotakis has already announced, we will present a comprehensive framework for dealing with the big issue of Greek society, the private debt. And you should know that these proposals will be specific, realistic and practicable, to the opposite of the populism that we experienced in the election with SYRIZA, which said it would bring seismism around the world. And to know that the power entrusted to you by the Greek people is loan, is not permanent. And the promises that you do not keep are like red loans. But, you know, when the time comes, I predict that the world will not give you "feelings" for the mocking you offered to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u300	Ms. Megaloconou from the Centro Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will begin today's position with what I have read alarmingly yesterday in relation to our country's situation. Evidently, every Greek woman and Greek woman at the moment is experiencing a great stress, a great anxiety, which he sees in his home, in his family condition, in his wallet. But besides all the things that each Greek citizen experiences, there are official details of ELSTAT. ELSTAT corrected last year's data for the year 2015 and sincerely expresses the fact that the year ended with a higher recession than you thought, with a severely higher recession, i.e. 1.3% of GDP compared to 0.9%, which we believed so far. These data, unfortunately, are not simple figures. They represent the true Greek society, the Greek economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u302	Please. I'm sorry, Mrs. Big Economics. I'm interrupting you. We're just a few of us in the Chamber, you're making a fuss. The speaker doesn't sound. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u303	She has a strong voice, she's not afraid.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u304	Come on, Mrs. Big Housekeeper.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u305	Because by reducing the costs of households, since you do not let them consume, you are reducing in your knowledge and the costs of trade. In other words, we have arrived at imports, exports, too little lately, and there is no private investment. Thus, we have reached 35% of the Greek population living below the poverty line. I think this is a shocking figure for our day. We have reached the times of the Third World countries. On this basis the auctions were launched by the Greek State of first residence. It is well known what happened at the local court of peace and of course people are desperate. Fortunately, the notaries were on their feet and abstentions on Wednesdays, so that no auctions would take place and whether or not they come from the public or other public bodies, at least not to lose their homes. So, I remember my grandmother, when she said, "my child, a tile over your head", now the tile, I'm sorry, Minister, I think it has become a rock falling from landslide and scoring us. That reminds me. Ceramics no longer exist for safety. In fact, I consider that the government chose to leave these people completely uncovered at God’s mercy. We, as the Central Association, say that the auctions of the first home must be frozen for at least three years and at an objective value of more than EUR 200,000. I would also like to refer to the loans, which will be sold to foreign funds. We must allow them, when they buy foreign funds, within a quarter, after they have been in touch with borrowers, to be able to buy it at the price they bought it from the bank - that would be the best - even at a small price. For as far as the first residence is concerned, it's like removing the crab from the turtle. He can't live. Think about it. If you put valuation on first-time products such as feta, will you not put on what is at risk the home of each borrower, of each family? I think it's unreal. As a Centro Association, we demand that the Government take a decision on a legislative initiative to ensure the weak Greeks. Today I saw on TV a subject raised by the Panhellenic Workers' Federation in Public Hospitals, the WTO. He reported that seventy-five ambulances remain trapped due to damage to Attica and currently operate only sixty ambulances, while the needs of the population require at least three times the number. I think it is a very serious issue, because every man's life is at stake. If he waits for the ambulance to come and there is no or is damaged and impaled, I think that it is a huge responsibility to the Greek citizen. Now, let me come to the bill for the new Research and Innovation Foundation. The research has always been abandoned in the last few years in our country because there have been no recruitment of young researchers, there has been no research work. The problem was not that there was a lack of appropriate scientists. We have very large minds - excellently, I could say - which run abroad and honor their homeland, because that is where they have the opportunity to show it, while we lose them, we want them, we do not want them to. We don't use them. They simply study at Greek universities and then admit them abroad. That's where we're exporters. We have a high position in mind extraction. That is where they find the right place and time and money to highlight the research they can do and what they can carry out, while they are being lost here. In fact, in the explanatory memorandum to the bill and to paragraph 4, you say, Minister, and I am pleased that the research programmes will be financed at the beginning on the basis of an excellent academic performance. Very nice. You're coming to our talk now. Do you recognize that? The government recognizes excellence. After he arrives to recognize them at an academic level and recognize that he will receive funding on the basis of this statistic, excellence is recognized. Furthermore, the question is that Article 2(2) requires a distinction between the primary beneficiaries of financing and private undertakings. I said it yesterday. In fact, you told me that it would be under certain rules, but you did not explain to us how private enterprises would receive funding and what percentage. You told me yesterday, but I looked into it and there is no documentation, nor is it written anywhere to explain it, Minister. In Article 10(3), we are talking about seconded civil servants. You told me again yesterday that they would be seconded, but they would not receive a higher salary. And I assure you that by reading the article I have seen that their wages will not correspond to the place they are serving, because you leave a loophole for the better that they will be paid by the Foundation. So write to a paragraph that those who are seconded will receive the same wage as they were in their place.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u306	It's a single payroll. Same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u307	But write it down. I'm stupid, and I can't understand it, like the Greek people! Write down that they'll get the same paycheck. Make it clear, not that they'll be paid by the Foundation. Excuse me, but leave windows. That's not satisfying me. As far as funding is concerned, it is clear that young scientists need to be financed, that they do their doctorate work, and what concerns me is whether what comes from the research will be able to make use of them, Minister. Because research is not just paper research. Research must be able to take advantage of the pragmatic process, enter into the production process, and this research, which we will pay for by a loan, which the Greek people will pay, must give to him, otherwise it is 'burned paper'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u308	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I have to make a statement to this House. It is known that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty students and students, as well as two attendants of teachers from the 2nd High School of Egypt. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stylus has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u309	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill concerns research and innovation. It could be a benchmark for the country's recovery, unite and stimulate the creativity of new scientists. A large portion of the most scientifically trained human resources in our country leaves abroad. Young people who remain are simply holding a standby. Unfortunately, however, with the SYRIZA - ANEL government, the bill we are discussing is no different from the previous one. State intervention, centralisation and micro-management. Ladies and gentlemen, questions are raised: why loan? How will the EUR 240 million loan, which is co-existed between our country and the European Investment Bank, be repaid for the operation of the new agency of EIDEEC? Is there a business plan? You are not clear about how the new organisation will be sustainable. What's ELIDEK's revenue? We're starting with a loan. After three years, will a new loan be taken to enable it to function? There's no organogram. Is there a performance? How is the performance of this body measured? The ELDEC shall not be subject to any evaluation mechanism. Who evaluates the facts of this new organisation? There is no obligation to publish the decisions taken by the Director and the Board of Directors of ELIDEEC on the platform. So, opacity. What for? In the end, who pays these loans? The Greek people, the Greek taxpayer, pays them. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill does not address the essential problems of research in our country, the linking of research with the market and entrepreneurship, so that proposals with added value are financed for the creation of new forms of economic activity and new jobs. Is the question, then, whether the ELIDEK responds and whether it is a resurgence to Brain drain to set up another organisation? Why do we need a new different organisation? Are there not universities, TEIs, research centres, the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology today? Are there no funding resources such as the ESRB, the European Commission? Why not support these bodies, become more competitive, to organise better, so that they can be financed directly and directly to competitive programmes by the European Commission? It does not address the problem of leaking new scientists through a strategic planning to absorb these people. According to recent data from EUROSTAT 2016, one in two young graduates in our country cannot find work. I believe that this bill does not answer this question and it is not a resurgence of Brain Drain. What's going on so far in our homeland? We have an education where we produce scientists, graduates, graduates, doctors, postdoctors, and in the end we reach a gap. You mentioned that scholarships will be given. There's the IKY that can give scholarships. But, after the end of these scholarships again, we will have this void again. So why is that empty? Because it has not been linked to entrepreneurship, to local production, to regional development, to the extroversion and to the usefulness of the results produced, no synergy or cooperation with private capital, to the labour market, to private enterprises and to the needs of your economy. These are not mentioned in the bill and do not even exist as a thought. You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, it is the market that determines where research and development is going because it finances. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to another gap that exists. In Greece, research has been carried out, research has been carried out for years and research is funded. We have good results and good discoveries which, however, do not go any further in order to return the money back to our country, to the Greek economy. Why is that? Because there is no guarantee of the results. Because we're the last to use the patents. I have also mentioned it in committee. In accordance with the legislation in force, the researcher should, in his own right, finance the patent. It is not financed by any body and you have no interest in this draft law on patents. So we are doing research, produce results and come some other companies from some other countries to take the research, which is published and mandatory, published, exploited, patented and not returned back to the Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 5(5) states: 'The evaluation shall be carried out solely in the light of scientific competence and the quality of the proposals'. So innovation is not taken into account. The effects on the Greek economy are not relevant. In particular, in the current economic situation, any sums allocated should have a positive impact on the Greek economy and on jobs. Add also the economic instability, the high taxation that creates a hostile environment in any attempt to explore and create newly created businesses. The draft law does not respond to the problem of bureaucracy, because so far we have had invitations, notices, evaluations. There is no answer in this whole chain to improve the bad text so far. There is no mention of an end to international judges. But how can new companies be created when government choices create a toxic to the business environment? High taxation, instability in the economic climate. We are, according to official figures, the country with the highest corporate taxation. We are the country with the highest employers', insurance contributions and it goes on to say. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Education and to say that there are provisions in these amendments, which we agree with and we would like to vote on, such as the provision in the EDPS and the provision made by the applicants. I would like to thank the Minister for the initiative he has taken from the Step of the House. However, as a whole it is tabled as a body together with the other articles, such as the article in the translations, we cannot vote in favour of it. You could make it easier for us to vote for it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u310	Why do you disagree with the transcripts?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u311	We disagree with the translations because, Minister, we had spoken last year - the three houses are leaving them outside. For example, when a family, regardless of income, lives in Arta and has a student in Athens and another student in Thessaloniki, they cannot receive a relocation. The polytecuses, the tritecuses, which should be out of proportion, you leave them out. There's only an income criterion coming in. You put it as more basic. As far as the income criterion is concerned, you know very well that family with a child may actually have higher incomes, but it may indicate very little income. He'll get a rewrite. And it won't be the one who maintains three homes and an income of 15,000 euros. We are also talking about 20,000 euros in incomes. He's not entitled to rewrite. We'd said it before. Look at it with greater, better interest and more complete, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, in a historic turning point that the country must open its gates to competition, the government is dealing with all introspectively and conservatively. The government is giving all fronts a fight against retardants. Its political capital has been exhausted as has the tolerance of Greek society to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr. Style. The last speaker on the list, Mr Theocharis, has the floor as an Independent MEP. After Mr. Theocharis, Minister Fotakis will follow on his protagonists. In the meantime, I strongly urge Parliamentary groups, which of the rapporteurs want secondary intervention, to state this in the course of the debate, so that we can organise ourselves better. Come on, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, last but not last.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u314	Not last, Mr. Theochari. I said you were the last speaker on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u315	Mr President, it does not have to be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u316	The last word will be said by the President at all times. So no one's nervous.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u317	I don't have any agony. I assure you. Ladies and gentlemen, after a long time we have finally seen a draft law which in principle is positive. Research is the foundationstone of the knowledge economy. It creates added value and connects the theory, created in universities and developed there, with the economy and production. Research can keep new children in our country. Of course, you're saying more. You will stop the Brain Drain here, in the Chamber of Parliament, but the commander of the OAU calls on those who do not like the OAU's contributions to leave the country and to go to Bulgaria. From the "you will get us Bulgaria" you have made this dream of the insured and the professionals! So although the bill is positive in principle, it is both ignorant and in points it is also trapped in the pathogens of the Greek public administration. This is also noted in the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament. What is the relationship between the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology and ELIDEK? What, too, is the relationship between ESET and ELIDEK? Today responsibilities are fragmented. The DGT supervises only research centres and not universities. You also do this by putting new loans on the back of the Greek people, 180 million and 60 million, without transferring resources from the already existing ones. So, 80 million of the GDR and 60 million of the new ones? So get ready, ladies and gentlemen, for another cycle of conflict between services with overlapping responsibilities, with 'grey belts' for each's spheres of influence. Ladies and gentlemen, in spite of all the glossy budgets in our country, Greece gives about 0.6% of GDP to research expenditure, not least small, if we were only talking about public participation. Private participation is, above all, lacking and the role of BSE is still not clear. It should be activated and activated private research funds and help interconnect domestic research with production. That is why the performance of research in our country, in the use of the results of research, in the application of these results to production and the economy, is pitiful. I do not want to make a sterile criticism, so once again I will try to make proposals, which, if you had a coherent public philosophy, would perhaps be, in a better world, self-evident. Problem one: we are making another fragmentary arrangement. You do not solve the problem of research in our country, you are simply building an organisation, as I have already said, alongside the existing ones, without regulating relations between them. In an ideal bill you would say: First, the Minister is here to negotiate the amount of research funds with the Prime Minister, but also to set specific political priorities in the scientific community. Secondly, a national research policy board would translate these priorities into specific research priorities for funding. It would also control the institution that manages the money. Thirdly, a body implementing the research policy, giving the funds to the appropriate projects. With a board of directors making the final choices after the scientific committee's suggestion. Thus, we are clearly serving a proper government architecture with three distinct levels of governance, that is, we need to do all over the public sector. Please note that, at the third level, it is not the general meeting of those who are financed, that is to say, universities and research centres, such as you, and there is no such logic anywhere in the world. You're telling us the standard is the National Science Foundation of America. They don't have that logic over there. We're gonna start fighting about the pie, about who's gonna get more money. Note, too, that what is also mentioned in this bill, that ELIDEK operates on private criteria or private economic criteria, are in fact accountability criteria for the Greek people's money: Balance sheets, sworn accountants, accountancy etc. Fortunately, Mr. Fotakis, Mr. Spirtzis is not here. He'd tell you you're privatizing the investigation. That was what he told us a week ago about the national airspace. Because, in other words, he managed to keep the PPA opacity, under the Ministry, and manage the 150 million Greek people within the framework of the Minister's jurisdictions, he told us that this was how he rescued the national airspace. So the same thing would tell you today. We are doing, in other words, that this is how we serve the national interest. Oh, no. This is how we serve the interest of the Minister concerned. They've lost meaning now. That's what your ministers do. Like Mr. Skourletis who legally changed the terms of the sale of the DESCA and now "save" privatisation, giving the Azores a better price for gas. That's how privatization will be saved! We will pay more money for the Greek people. On the back of the Greek people the games of each Minister who brings them here to Parliament! I'm going back to the bill. Problem: In our country research centres are at the centre of research, rather than universities, as they are in all advanced educational countries - and here we put China, not just the West. You need to put an end to the pathogens. But how do you put it? If you change the framework of university activities to favour research, you will stick to your ideas, because research, ladies and gentlemen, excellence is excellence and in your logic excellence is'recites'. The Minister gives 240 million to excellence, do you understand? Here, then, seems to be the bankruptcy of your reasoning. Universities cannot function, in the way they have become, they cannot promote excellence and we are creating a series of other structures with the research centres that they do not need. You don't want to make the investigation in our country. If you would like to do what I have proposed or even bring a bill that is coherent, comprehensive and not a fragmentary piece of legislation, so that some of the friends who know the Minister most, the research centre or the dilemma, and whoever doesn't know him, the "Democritus" let's say, get nothing. That is why this bill will also fail to meet its main objective, which is to stop Brain Drain, because researchers who leave are not the ones who have access to the same research centres that will benefit from this bill and are the centres that have always shared money, but they are those researchers who do not take and do not get opportunities from the distorting system that this bill is currently serving. These young people started to leave at the risk of others. They will continue to leave on your own responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Before giving the floor to the Minister, let me make a statement, reading a letter, signed by Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the Parliamentary Group Potami, and addressed to the President of the Greek Parliament Mr Voutsi. On word, I'm reading to you: 'Mr President, In this letter, I inform you that Mr. Achaias Iason Foilas is presently outside the Parliamentary Group of the Movement."
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Fotakis, Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u320	Ladies and gentlemen, listening to some of the speakers of the Opposition - and particularly of the Officerial Vice-Population - talking about the investigation, two words came to my mind: 'Very stress', 'Angry Anti-Population'. And the question is: What is the result of this stress? What they have done or what they have not done? It was still heard today, earlier, that the loan for the ELIBEC was imposed on us by creditors because they do not trust us. I will say one: total confusion, trifle! Now I would like to make a few particular comments, some comments, first of all, on the rapporteur for the NSRP. Unfortunately, she's not present. So maybe I can avoid getting far into this. Just what I would like to say is that as far as the NRV of 2007-2014 is concerned, what we found was a very low absorption, if I remember well, around 47% - I'm talking about early 2015 - and that is because a significant number of projects had been integrated in the period 2013-2014 in a backward manner. Secondly, there were shortcomings in national appropriations for the national participation in the ESRB. And most important of all, which had to do with L.4310, there were no certifications, because there was no NSRF, which was abolished by Law4310 and which approves the list of certifyors. However, from about 50% of previous NSRP projects have now been absorbed to 90%. The OPS, the Information System, have been recorded 67% due to delays in recording. But I think we should know what we say and what we say. There's always this delay. As far as the new ESDP is concerned, what one needs to understand is that it is quite different from the previous one, in the sense that in the new ESDP the allocation of funds is in line with the strategy of smart specialisation, which imposes heresy. With regard to research, there were two hereticities: the heresy of RIS, which is said to be about the strategy of smart specialisation and a second heresy, which has to do with the road map of research infrastructures. I do not want to go into details that are not of time, but the fact is that at the end of 2014 these two heretics were linked to something else: the subject of self-commitment. In other words, there was a commitment at that time, which means that you cannot make any notice unless these two specific heresy are fulfilled. The result was that the problems due to this restriction of self-commitment and sectarianism were overcome in April 2016. In addition to this, there was a lack of specialisation of the individual RIS actions, of intelligent specialisation, and of course of distortions, imposed by Law No.4314, the NRP law passed in December 2014 on the merger of the EEAS, the various administrative structures managed by the NSRP with the NSRP, which led to a complete inactivity of a service that had a great deal of experience in these matters. But don't go any further. I would just like to briefly refer to a number of other issues raised during this two-day sitting. It has been heard in many respects: financing is done with credit. What's going to happen in the future? I'm going to ask, what happened to this day? How did he live, how does the country live and live? What does "try to get out on the market" mean? Loan on entrepreneurial terms. What we can say is that at the moment, the only source of borrowing is that there is, in fact, much more favourable than the ones with which we would go out on the market is that of the European Investment Bank. Exceptional terms, which are linked each time to each disbursement made and which are linked to the price of Euribor at that time. It's not something that can be registered in the law in advance. The fact is that these are exceptional terms and, for the present first disbursement made, at your disposal to the Ministry of Finance to see them. I mentioned some evidence in my prototype yesterday. More has been heard: What will happen in the future? Is there a business plan? What's the reward? I wanted to say here about some people, who you perhaps do not know, that the European Investment Bank is not new in the country. It has financed many projects in the past and including school buildings. I would like to ask this: what is the reciprocity of school buildings? What's the business plan there? I say this because for us this bill, this loan contract - which was a success, because it supports intangible values - is important because it does not constitute expenditure. It's an investment. Investment in the people of the country. Investment in new scientists. And for anyone who doesn't want to understand that, let me at least say, with some exaggeration, that he doesn't know where he's going and where he's going. So is there any prediction of what will happen in the future? Tell me. After three years, is there a prediction of what the country will do? Is he going to borrow from the markets? Won't he borrow from the markets? It will be self-sufficient, something we are pursuing, since it is also the objective of development. And here is the answer. What we do through this bill is to support the human potential above. That is why we say that this is a step - and not all steps - to reverse the phenomenon of Brain Drain. It is a step forward, and many others will follow, which I mentioned in the committee yesterday and which is really about growth, with what you say 'productive' and all that. Many things have been heard about the General Secretariat of Research and Technology. We've been through it many times. The General Secretariat of Research and Technology does not lose any competence at all. But the ELIDEK - to make a leap forward - is not a fund management body, as some people want to present it. It is an institution that serves basic research and has the characteristic that the scientific community itself - and from this point of view society itself - shapes the development of priority in the field of basic research, without dependencies and without restrictions. If we do not understand what this means and we do so with the Secretariat-General, which is doing the work and the supervision of the agencies and the management of the NSRP and all the others very well, despite its sub-delegation, we do not understand what such an institution and independence means in this respect, in relation to an institution where the overseeing Minister and the Secretary-General are headed every time. I think that clears the scene in relation to this. And I will end up with a big issue, that of entrepreneurship, because there is an ideological issue here too. The production process for us is a deeply social process. The left understands the dynamics of capitalism and wants to transcend it. However, this is not the case in terms of immunity under the so-called'regulated market'. We heard that just before. It can't be with state-owned logic. On the other hand, as we have been in the middle of this situation, it is not in terms of unaltered state interventionism that leads to forms of State monopolistic or monopsycholic capitalism. On the other hand, we believe that social control and social participation favour the blossom of innovation and healthy entrepreneurship. And that is what we are seeking. At ELIDEK the scientific community itself shapes its fates. If we do not trust her, let us go out and say 'We do not trust her'. We and we trust it and express it in a way that is tangible and concrete. So, as I have said in my protology, we are creating a system of opportunities and a system that creates these environments, which will be attractive in order to achieve these opportunities, in fact, in terms of pursuing scientific quality and excellence. I say the word 'purpose' because some particularly intense actresses of the word 'excellence' are usually just on its feet. But let me not get out of this. So that's what we're doing. That's our policy. And to finish, our policy can be expressed very soon. We want to create an environment where flowers will blossom without interference and interference, we will let the excellent potential in the country itself build the research landscape and start from there, while at the same time taking all the measures to make use of these specific, perhaps results, which must be exploited and put into the path of development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We will start the cycle of the seconds of those of special speakers and rapporteurs who have already asked for the floor. Mrs Antoniou, you have the floor for three minutes and with a tolerance possibly. And there is Mr. Tassos and Mr. Konstantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr President. I will be brief because, anyway, in my philosophy at the outset, and today on the articles I have been slightly abused the time and thank you for the time you have given me. Nevertheless, I would like to put myself in the amendments that the Minister has accepted, several of which we are positive. However, I must also tell some people that, although they are in a positive direction, we cannot vote in favour of them and I will explain why. So let's go to the general number 688 and a special 75 amendment by Mr Alexiadis on the supply of films. We shall be voting on the motion for a resolution. In Mr Vernardakis' amendment, with a general number of 689 and a special number 76, we have already said by the committees that we are negative. It has also been explained for me by the speaker and by the relevant sectoral authority why we are negative. There is nowhere from the General Accounting Office to know what this expenditure is to deal with this issue. It is a major issue and the state should already have better organised the cleanliness piece. He should find the formula with permanent positions and not with extensions of contracts. As far as the regulation of the introduction of athletes into higher education is concerned, it is something that, in any case, as a New Democracy, we requested it, so we will be positive. In Amendment No 697 and in particular number 81, which regulates issues of training centres for officials from the Commercial Navy and the School of Fire Instruments, what I would like to say is that it is indeed an emergency solution and we will be positive. However, I should like to stress that certain conditions and qualifications are excluded when Mr Varvitsiotis was Minister of State. In the amendment concerning the Ministry of Justice we are positive, although I would like to stress that we do have a lack of other seats of judges, as the Union of Judges and Advocates has already stressed. We're positive, but we should also see the other issues of the Justice Department. As far as the amendment is concerned, with a general number of 700 and a specialist of 83 from the Ministry of Education, it is in favour of some of the arrangements. Nevertheless, as we have said many times, Mrs Anagnostopoulos, and the previous legislative effort you brought a month ago, we said that you cannot legislate on the knee such issues as higher education institutions. In any case, it should be after dialogue and consultation with the academic community and not in the form of amendments. We've denounced them so many times. You obviously continue to legislate at the same rate, with amendments, so while some of its regulations are positive, we will say 'they'. In Amendment No 701 and in Amendment No 84, the relevant Head of Sector has already been placed. We're positive. I would like to say, however, that we are not only voting against Amendment No 709, but also against Amendment No 87. We owe it to this because it changes the order of creditors to the satisfaction of this amendment. Who's he serving? Why does it change it? Not only are we voting against it, but we are condemning it. The amendment of a general number 710 and a specific OTE 88 has already been analysed by the speakers of the New Democracy. We're negative. As regards the Parliamentary amendments adopted by the Minister, I would like to say once again that the one that should have been accepted and the one that society expected, the general number 712 and the specific 90, the one tabled by the New Democracy for suspending the seizure of real estate by auctions, unfortunately by the sensitive one - otherwise - was not accepted on social issues. We shall vote 'yes' in Amendment No 694 and in Amendment No 78, tabled by the River and finally...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u323	And let's get this over with, Mrs. Anthony.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u324	Finally, in Amendment No 695 and in Amendment No 79 - which is a technical substantial amendment, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, because it is a technical issue, which I think is resolved after the legislative process - we will be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u325	Mr Constantopoulos, a special speaker from the Democratic Alliance, has the floor. I would ask you, Mr Colleague, to speak strictly for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u326	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that there has been a fruitful and constructive debate both in the legislative process and in the articles. As a Democratic Alliance, we have placed ourselves in the first place and in the articles. In conclusion, I would like to say two things about the amendments. We also agree on introducing and increasing the rate from 3% to 4.5% in terms of athletes so that they have access to higher education. I would like to say that the contracts on cleaning buildings in public buildings, public services, private-law legal persons and public-law contracts are being extended by 31-12-2017. I would say here that there must be consultation with the municipalities and local authorities. As far as Amendment No 700 is concerned, and in particular Amendment No 83, with the proposed changes to the translations, we should, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, see with greater consensus the translations and, in particular, social characteristics, because we are really experiencing a crisis, which leads many families not to send their children out because of economic difficulties. I would also like to say that this is where we are voting and we are voting. I'm talking about the SPS. On 6-9-2016, we voted in particular on the EDPS and they did not have time to go through two months and we are coming to make a vote. In other words, the reasoning had nothing to do with it. The abolition of this provision was deemed necessary in the context of the Legislative initiative of the Ministry of Education and Research, so that today we are voting on it. I would also like to say here that I do not know whether we are an exceptional country or an exceptional country, because, indeed, many times we see from the retrospective force in the 2013 law that the category of TEIs is of electoral interest from the point of view of SYRIZA. In conclusion, I should like to come to Amendment No 710 and to say, as regards the ratification of an agreement by the Greek State with the 'DUTSCHE TELEKOM', that the House here is now called upon to vote for its resignation to have final control by means of a ratification procedure in the whole case, which is decisive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like to end - and I am ending this, Mr President - by Amendment No 697 and by Amendment No 81 on shipping. We see in Article 2 here that the curriculum may not have less qualifications than the trainees. In order not to qualify less than the trainees, therefore, the ex d.631/1972 should continue to apply to the model, at least provided for by the curriculum, whether or not any other graduate in AEN. In Article 4 it should also remain qualified as provided for in d.d.631/1972. That's all I had to say, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u328	Minister, you are talking about entrepreneurship, i.e. the production of materials and intangible products for profit. We are talking about the production of materials and intangible products to meet the expanded needs of society. You're talking about opportunities, about rights. We move in opposite directions. I say that in general. Now, on the amendments, you have accepted an amendment tabled by the Potami, so that the peer teachers can also be programme directors. We're asking, what? Is that really what you're strengthening young scientists? Honourable teachers gave what they had to give. They are, of course, very useful in terms of their knowledge and their potential. But if you really want to strengthen young people and overthrow what you say, 'brain', and do it 'brain game', you need to give young people more opportunities. At the same time, with regard to the arrangements you make for the relocations to the HEIs and TEIs, we say that the relocations should be open. Today, the Greek family spends a lot of hard days and there should be no wall for the transcripts. The other side, of course, proposes that there should be no translations at all, because this is the way the universities are charged. The solution, of course, would have been for the state to bear all the costs, such as food, housing, and all the other needs that students have, so there would be no need for relocations. This is not the case, however, because we know that we are living in a system where even education is a commodity. You're also talking about staff. We want new permanent posts. As far as schools and departments are concerned, they shall be opened, merged and dismantled, as appropriate to the needs of capital. Of course, it's all the students who pay for it. You also have another amendment here concerning the increase in the seats of judges in thirty. We will vote'residents' on this because the associations had called for a double number. Sixty employees had been asked for. So this is not enough. There are, of course, other regulations relating to individual contracts to which our parliamentary representative will refer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. Mr. Mavrosh, the special speaker from the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just gonna need a minute. I take the floor simply to express our strong disagreement on a legislative improvement tabled by Mr Bernardakis and on Article 16 on individual contracts. Legislative improvement says that in the first paragraph of the above amendment - which refers to contracts in private law, Otta and others - the words 'taking into account the appropriations available in the budgets concerned' are deleted. In other words, the appropriations available in the relevant budgets will not be taken into account in order to satisfy this provision. We find this to be a complete moment, it's completely in the air, like mocking the world and the workers. That is why we are going to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, you have asked the floor for two - three minutes for some explanations. After you, he asked for the floor for a minute - at least until now, the picture is this - from the Parliamentary Representatives Mr Delis of the Communist Party for a reference. Minister, I would ask you very strongly to have completed within a three-minute period, with a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u332	All right, Mr. President. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finally voting for a bill, which we consider to be very important. The Ministry of Education has, for a time, brought bills showing the government's effort to re-establish and strengthen education and research in the country as public and free goods. These legislative arrangements are supplemented by a series of actions, painful and coordinated, all of the Government to strengthen new scientists. In practice, then, we are strengthening not only young scientists but we are strengthening excellence and we will not stop saying that we are strengthening excellence as the right of young scientists and not as the privilege of some who can. So, as far as this is concerned, and because the opposition - I understand the opposition! - it does not sound critical and all of this, I would like to say that I would like to hear just one word about these efforts. It was said that we should have permanent staff. It is the only government after six years that in six months it gave the highest institutions a thousand new members of the board. The members of the ICM shall be permanent staff. It is the only government, since the scholarships - which is why excellence - have been cut off as well as the higher institutions in the country, as well as the research institutes. As far as the subject of relocations is concerned, it does not mean that there are not all other criteria, such as that of luxury, tritexism, etc., in income criteria. For us it is of major importance that students be able to study at their place of introduction. That is why, in the next few days, we are calling for two thousand seven hundred grants for financially weak students - these grants are for four years - who will receive EUR 500 a month when they study outside the place of permanent residence and EUR 400, the economically weak people studying at the place of residence. Amongst all the other things we do precisely for student care, we have chosen empty apartments, which we will make available to students who have financial needs and cannot be met with existing student centres. At this point it would be better not to mention the areas for which students have been studying for so many years, and indeed the years of well-being, the efforts that should have been made either to renovate or to strengthen institutions with new outbreaks have not been made. As far as the EDPS are concerned, I will not speak. A provision shall be withdrawn when it is problematic to implement it. This is a problem in its implementation. We will come back when we have ways to implement and ways in which the highest institutions, of course, agree. I'd like to finish by saying one thing. We are hearing a great deal about the amendments, such as the amendments coming in this way and so on. That's true. Many amendments often come in handy and unrelated bills. But I would like to say that society and reality are a living thing and issues arise, which need to be resolved and which are urgently important and need to be regulated. For example, this was the case today for the relocations. But I was reading today in a newspaper of great traffic, in the newspaper of the authors, an amendment of twenty-five or fifty pages - I will laugh at you - which came in the middle of the night and concerned the channels, that they had to merge, become less and leave workers on your government. I didn't hear anything about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Delis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u334	Ladies and gentlemen, some time ago the government rejected an amendment tabled by the JRC to public contractors working in the field of cleanliness. What the government actually rejected, however, is the right of these people to permanent and stable work, because that is exactly what the JRC's amendment provided for. After all the contracts have been extended - and we stress them all! - until 31-1-2017, their contracts will be converted into contracts of indefinite duration. That's what you rejected! On the same subject, of course, the Minister responsible, Mr Vernardakis, initially tabled an amendment which, in the way it was formulated, did not substantially recognise the right to even partial extension of contracts. Under pressure from workers today brought a legislative improvement, which is indeed an improvement. We couldn't argue, except that this improvement goes the way to the middle, it's a medium-sized solution. I'm explaining. It leaves the bimonthly public contractors, in the area of cleanliness, who were hired in 2016, making an unacceptable separation that we do not understand. We would, in fact, like to vote, even on this lame amendment tabled by the Minister, but the fact that he leaves these two-monthly contractors behind us obliges us to say'residents'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr. Delis. There is no one else who wants to speak by the main ministers or, possibly, by the parliamentary representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: 'Greek Research and Innovation Foundation and other provisions' is adjourned and we enter their vote. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u338	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u344	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u346	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u349	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u353	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u358	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u362	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u365	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u367	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u371	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u376	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u380	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u382	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u383	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u385	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u389	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u391	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u392	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u394	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u398	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u400	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u403	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u407	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u410	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u412	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u416	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u418	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u419	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u425	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u427	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u428	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u434	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u436	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u437	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u439	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u443	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u445	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u446	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u452	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u454	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u455	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u457	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u460	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u461	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Articles 15, 16 and 17 are the amendments tabled to the committees and incorporated as articles. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u463	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u464	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u466	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u470	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u472	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u475	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u476	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u478	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u479	Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u484	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u488	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 697 and a special 81, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u493	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u494	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u497	The amendment under general number 697 and a special 81 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 698 and a special number 82, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u506	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 698 and a special 82 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 700 and a special number 83, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u509	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u510	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u515	The amendment by a general number 700 and a special 83 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 701 and a special number of 84 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u524	The amendment, by a general number 701 and a specialist, 84, has therefore been accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 709 and a special number 87 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u526	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u529	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u533	The amendment, by a general number 709 and a special 87, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 710 and a special number 88 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u537	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u538	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u541	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u542	So the amendment under general number 710 and a special 88 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 694 and a special 78 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u545	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u547	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u551	The amendment under number 694 and a special 78 were therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 695 and a special 79, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u560	The amendment under a general number 695 and a special 79 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u562	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u563	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u565	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u568	Yes
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u569	The late payment was accepted by a majority. The Bill of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Greek Institute for Research and Innovation and other provisions" was approved in principle, articles and amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u570	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u571	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u572	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u576	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u578	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: ‘Greek Institute for Research and Innovation and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles, amendments and all of which are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u579	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u580	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd High School of Egypt (second Chamber). We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-10-18-S1-commons.u581	With the consent of the House at 17.25 the meeting for tomorrow, Wednesday, 19 October 2016 at 10.30', on the subject of this House's legislative work: discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity: "Social and solidarity economics and the development of its institutions and other provisions".
