ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: 'Regulating arms transfers, personnel care and other provisions'. In the morning sitting, the bill was discussed and passed at the outset. The articles and amendments of the bill will be discussed in the afternoon as a unity. The procedure will be as follows: The rapporteurs and the special speakers will first speak on the articles and amendments, then the remaining speakers on the principle, who will also speak on the articles and on the amendments and then speak on the articles and amendments. In other words, those who want it can also be registered on the articles and amendments. Mrs Kozobol - Amanatidis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I do not think anyone is questioned that much needs to be done on a number of levels. But it all starts somewhere. There's the inaugural step. Such a step is the current draft law which comes for a vote, a step in the right direction, a democratic section in the many to be done. A lot has been said about customer relations in terms of citizens' term of office, while part of the responsibility has been attributed to the citizens. Some citizens are pressing for better treatment of themselves or their children, for special treatment, which in their opinion results from a problem. But, as things stand to date, where could a parent or child really be asked if there was a real problem? The Member is an intermediate link which also has the role of transferring a just one, according to the subjective assessment of each request. This changes with today's bill. Each citizen may have the same choice, status and qualifications as any other with the same qualifications. Objections have been heard that it is not clear about the nature of the draft law we are working on, which now comes to a vote, whether it is aimed at improving service and operational needs or aimed at satisfying people's demands. As a bill from the Ministry of Defence, it aims firstly to improve the operational capacity of the Armed Forces and, secondly, to all others, but if they are improved it is a function of the military service and operational capacity. It has been heard that the draft law strengthens the intervention of political leadership or politics in the Armed Forces. Really, that's a target. The aim of enlightenment, the objective of parliamentary representative democracy, which wants politics to be above the economy and above the particular trade or other interests, otherwise there is no civil society. We have seen at times when there was no political representation, an argument how well the illegal military wings of power have managed to act. It was concluded that it is not supposedly objective to do so now and that there was an objective system with the existing legislative framework. However, those who mentioned this argument were made up by next speakers of their own side, who confessed that there were orders setting the molecules and we know very well how easily the orders can be amended. This problem is now being legislated. These issues that have been arousing Greek society for many years, are for the first time attempting to resolve with due attention demanded by a sensitive space and while respecting the relative balance, so as not to raise operational issues of the Armed Forces. In the positive spirit of the bill, all the bodies who first attended the Committee of Parliament in drafting the Ministry of Defence bill were agreed. This bill, of course, cannot solve all the issues, all the problems of the Armed Forces. However, there is assurance - we heard it again this morning by the Minister - that he is already in the process of drafting a framework law that will modernise, solve years of problems and codify the relevant legislation. Today we are going to resolve the legal gap that exists in the movement and placement of the soldiers. This legal vacuum was concluded by the entire range of parties, from all the wings of this House, as was the pathogen of the transfer system. But this pathogen was not built by itself, it did not come from virginity. It has been built for many years and has been established by the PASOK and New Democracy Governments. Therefore, there is a hypocritical and contradictory requirement to change Article 1 so that the Minister of National Defence does not decide the position and transfer of the soldiers. Under the current system, the Minister decides on this matter. Here the innovation of this draft law is that the legislative introduction of a mechanism for controlling this moleculosis system is legislated and that is how the Minister or the one who each has responsibility after the Minister is established, that is to say, not by orders or decisions of a single representative, an insurance policy, that the person issuing an order will not act at all but with specific rules ensuring equality and justice. The moleculation system is established in Article 3 and is a system that is impracticable. It closes the door to the army, any customer relationship between the political system, their soldiers and their families, and introduces a regime of armies' placements and transfers governed by the principles of transparency and integrity. Transparency is evident in paragraph 11 of Article 3, where the 50 arms transferred and collected the lowest scores are made public. With Article 4, the host for the first time has a say in his statement of his choice. Article 5 establishes the setting up of a committee for the examination of exceptional placements and transfers, in order to decide on cases not provided for in the preceding Articles and to meet the requirements of need and logic. Article 6 describes the categories exempted from the placement and transfer procedure and refers to socially vulnerable groups. Armors who are beneficiaries of social programmes due to the fact that they themselves or their family live in extreme poverty, have the opportunity after the end of basic education to place themselves in the nearest unit of their place of desire. Such care is also taken for drug addicts who have successfully completed the programme, etc. For the 2% rate, I won't say any more. The Minister's entrepreneurial on this, too. It's a limited number on each ESS. There is a reasoned decision on this and primarily serves labour needs, since they are armed with special skills and special features. The second part shall be taken care of for staff. Article 8 stipulates that doctors should be able to cover gaps in agricultural medicine during their term of office. There is a similar arrangement in Article 9 for those who have graduated from legal schools, and in Article 10 there is provision for the adoption of presidential decrees for a number of other specialities and professions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like two minutes of your tolerance and conclude. Article 11 extends the normalization allowance to divorced military workers who have a child under their custody. Article 12 regulates the subordinates and excludes the invitation from those who have been declared irresponsible and have already fulfilled their mandate or fulfilled it by 31-12-2017. The criminal offence shall be eliminated and all administrative penalties and other criminal penalties shall be tampered with. Same for conscientious objections. Article 13 codifies all provisions on staff licences so that they are not scattered into hundreds of pages, while Article 15 extends the irreparable to the military who at least has a child with an incurable illness. I would like to say here that all the exceptions that follow and Article 16 and Article 17 extend the existing privileges of those with disabilities, not as it has been said - if I recall correctly - by Mrs Papakotas that one is added and some other rights are removed in this category. I conclude, Mr President, by saying just one word about Article 28 concerning the Support Offices. It is clear that it is not possible in the morning's report to get a soldier out and to be placed and to say about his emotional problems. What has been heard does not seem to me to apply to this particular case. This Armed Support Office is from scientists. It works every day and it listens to the problems at a personal level. This works at the same time - no structure is removed - with all the existing structures. To conclude, this bill we are voting on today solves many and many years' problems of the Armed Forces and must be supported. Do you need any more steps? Of course, no doubt. But for all things, there's a start. And this is a good start and we support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Vitsa, you will have the floor to support the amendment 'Functional Fire Corps' for two minutes. Do you get enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u4	A little less, Mr President, I will need in the following sense: it is an amendment which we are tabling.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u5	Amendment again?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u6	You'll see. I imagine it was because he went through the State General Accountancy today. In essence, Article 22 of the Treaty extends. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There's nothing else. It's an anti-nuclear protection. If you notice the previous law is for the years 2014-2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u7	I know that. But there's more to it. This should have been solved since last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u8	This is an issue that we can agree on or disagree with, but I tell you what it is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Tsironis will support the amendment of Article 12(8) of the Treaty. Regulation (EC) No 3054/2002. Please have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I think it's almost a formal matter. Those who are currently storing oil for emergency need had to make at least one-year contracts, which were too burdensome and created problems of stimulus on the market. All over Europe, these conventions are even monthly. This 'at least one-year old' has created a distortion and I think no one will disagree with doing so for the time being six months in the direction of the whole of the European Union for market flexibility. Finally, I should like to make it clear that Amendment 160 was tabled this morning and was debated, which we really support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u11	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u12	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u13	Would you like to place yourself on the amendments? Because the New Democracy rapporteur is following in Step. If you want to say something about the amendments, I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u14	I don't know that I can't now because I don't have the right and my turn will come to be placed. But Mr. Chironis will leave, which is why I am asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u15	There's no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u16	Let me give you the floor. How long do you want, Mr. Loverdo, two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u17	Not one. The amendment may be useful, but because both in the rapporteur's report and in its content you talk about stored materials for safety reasons, my mind went immediately into fuel. You mentioned the oil. It's not just oil. But in the relevant ministerial decision of 2012 or 2013, which determines what these materials are, there is asphalt, Minister. I asked Mr. Maniotis if it was the asphalt fuel and for what is more, I guess, why this addition came in. He said to me: “I don’t know, I didn’t. It was Mr Papageorgiou's. I spoke to my colleague. I would ask you, very much, for the excellence of the relevant regulation and for the technical and operational interventions you have made, to resolve this problem. A material has been added, which is not fuel. And holding up reserves is causing problems. First of all, the material is destroyed. It's a prudence or some kind of wickedness. I want you to see it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u18	Minister Chironis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u19	Mr President, I also have a question for Mr Tsironi.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u20	I must say that because of Mr Skourlet's serious family problem - because it is his responsibility - the information I have on fuel safety reserves. After all, it does not refer to the amendment to include this. We are simply talking about limiting the original forecast of at least one year in semester. If in original order there's the problem, let's see it. It is not something that the amendment refers to.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u21	You're absolutely right. The amendment, as I said, and these are critical things...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u22	Please, Mr. Loverdo, do not have an interactive conversation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u23	Because this is the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u24	Yes, but he's placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u25	I just want to say that it is as it says, in terms of wording and the report and the amendment. I ask him to see this issue that has emerged from ruthlessness or wickedness in the past and to solve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u26	Mr Keroyannis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u27	Mr President, I asked you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u28	If Mr. Kefaliannis allows it, of course, because you realize that this is how we change matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u29	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u30	You're welcome, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u31	That's why I asked you for the floor. As Mr Chironis intends to leave, I would like to make it clear. The wording is "by decision of the Minister for the Environment of Energy and Climate Change, issued 30 days after the start of operation" etc. Is the same as today, 'with a decision of the Minister'? If today 'with Minister's decision, why should we amend a law? Why bring a law? That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u32	Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I will begin my comment on the articles in Article 1(2), where there is provision for placements and transfers to be decided by the Minister of National Defence. All parties to the Opposition agree that this provision does not constitute a good principle for the implementation of this law. And that would be enough to think about. I was also saying in my midday position that when you are convinced that a transfer system that you introduce is inconsistent and, above all, objective, then you must surround it with a degree of confidence in the executives who are asked to implement it. We all know little or no more about how the transfer mechanism is going today. That is why we have to admit publicly that it is impossible for a Minister to obtain substantial knowledge of all the placements and transfers that come to his office. It should be naive to believe that a Minister's office deals with each ESS, with about eight thousand soldiers, about where they are placed or transferred. What is actually happening is a filtering of demands on the basis of party preferences or friendly services - to say a little more elegant. The tragic case in this case is that even in order to satisfy the customer system, an incredible waste of workers is required and a significant financial cost. Even today for the signature of a transfer order by the Minister, some ten officials are required to sign. It is precisely this dreadful bureaucracy that we must combat, Minister. And to do so, we must ensure that as few people as possible are involved in this process, after we have solved their hands through an objective evaluation system. That is why we insist on the role of the Minister and his office in the whole process being purely supervisory. And you may, as you have said, in committee and in plenary many times, be in the mood to give it to staff, but tomorrow - another minister may have this power to take it back and continue this system which we have seen today is something that we need to change. In fact, in order to strengthen credibility, we have said that, for example, the Minister's office could only deal with fifty soldiers, the number of molecules of which is the smallest possible, as provided for in Article 3(11). As regards Articles 3, 5 and 6, and the classification of criteria and the relevant exceptions, there is one last argument I must consider. We could accept all these exceptions on one condition, i.e. they have been documented on the basis of some quantitative data. For example, we have asked the committee to provide some elements of the number of soldiers per ESS required to meet the service needs you are hierarchical and I imagine that they should coincide with the minimum five-month stay in the border regions. We have also asked for some statistics on soldiers who now exceptionally request a placement or transfer for social or economic reasons. If you do not have these elements you cannot introduce any additional exceptions, let alone when they are set by a committee whose composition we do not know, nor the criteria it uses. Even more, the number of soldiers who fall under these exceptions can still be determined arbitraryly and a priori at 2% per ESS. That is why all the wings of the counterpopulation note that you first undermine the building that you foundation. In Article 20 for the Armed Forces Support Offices, on the first responsibility of such an office, i.e. psychological support, to date three fixed orders have been issued by the Staff on these issues. All these orders, ladies and gentlemen, describe in detail a procedure for the prevention and treatment of psychological issues, as well as the establishment of groups with psychologists, social workers and doctors operating today, at the moment we are talking about, in the form of brigade levels. These soldiers, in consultation with the administration, are touring the units that are subject to the formation, and, at least as far as I know, in many cases an excellent job is to be done, preventing many situations. We are therefore not introducing something new in this aspect of Article 20. All we do is create an additional structure whose function remains to be seen in relation to the existing ones, which are precisely because they have a more decentralised character, are clearly closer to the host and its needs. It stays to see how it works in practice. On the other hand, however, I think there are too many problems. You know, the insult of human dignity, Minister, is a crime in itself and no citizen of uniforms or not, if it proves to be doing so, can avoid the consequences of the law. Our state has competent bodies to judge, and these are no more than the courts. What the provision suggests, but it does not intentionally mention it, is that it wants to restrict some abuse of power, in common with the capsules. However, she is also punished by Criminal Law and even more effective than a Armed Forces Support Office. That is why I also told the committee that the representations made by the authors of this provision by the army refer to other times that have nothing to do with today's operation and the overwhelming majority of military officials, whether from anediotic-type discussions that have provided with plenty of material a cinema specializing in good comedy. These suggestions and assumptions for the Armed Forces are now of legal substance, and if that is the case, those who support them must say so clearly. All the others in this Chamber think we should highlight emphatically in all directions and in the most emphatic way that the minds of the army officials are absolutely democratic. And that, Minister, is one of the greatest conquests of postmultition. And we must also say that if ever called, which I hope never to happen, it will show its deterrent ability, as far as the external enemy is concerned, it will do so in order to defend the country's democratic rule and the interests of all Greeks, regardless of political convictions. With regard to Article 25 in conjunction with Article 29, the aim of the explanatory statement is to streamline the scale of the rescheduling of the Armed Forces Schools, taking into account academic practice. It should, of course, be noted here that the proposed amendment restores the scale of n. Regulation (EC) No 2439/96, repealed by Regulation (EC) No 2439/96. 3883/2010. What he does not deliberately mention is that the rankings of the commissioners are directly linked to promotional crises. Lower scores imply a reduction in the growth opportunities in the highest rankings of the Armed Forces. Article 29(3), which in its original wording gives retroactive effect to Article 25 of the EC Treaty, enters into this point. 3883/2010. I would like here to point out something, which I also pointed out in committee, that precisely for this retrospectiveness the legislator in the explanatory statement did not even bother giving us an explanation. Of course, there was an explanation from you during the debate in the committee, which is why there are too many doubts about the final purpose of this retrospectiveness. Lowering the rating scale gives an opportunity to a significant number of officers who, with the current law, could not be judged protagonists to higher degrees, to be judged as such at the expense of their classmates who have worked and achieved higher ratings in order to ensure their rise in the army. It is obvious that this cannot be rewarded. Not only because we do not have the moral right to legislate on the ranking of military officials, but also because we are creating a precedent of historical gravity. We say indirectly but clearly to the social groups - in this case, active officials who have admitted to the committee that they have intervened in the formulation of this article - that if you have a barbas in Koroni, read! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude in two minutes, Mr President. So we are working on a flagrant injustice to shape, supposedly, another injustice to those executives who did not or did not want to use such access. Finally, as far as the Elefsinas shipyard amendment is concerned, I also told you during my lunch position that to some extent you surprised us. While you made a very good start - and it is your honour - when we started a dialogue at some point in November, we were never informed of the signing of this agreement. You have brought her into an amendment, while you could bring her to the committee to discuss it, and in the end we are now being called upon to vote on this amendment, for which I have told you there are some points I will raise, which are at least gray for us. The substance of the case is relatively simple. This is a project that has been played on several occasions in the past, namely the failure of an undertaking to meet its contractual obligations towards the Ministry of National Defence, and the risk of a timely supply of two torpedoes, in this case, in the case of the Hellenic Navy, from the seven ordered torpedoes. We know that to date 92% of the contract price has been paid, totalling EUR 300 million. There remains a sum of EUR 24 million, but of the financial information provided to us by the Minister and given the poor financial situation of the company, it is not enough to complete the construction and delivery of the two ships. In fact, some 40 million more is needed, including material supply, wage and insurance costs, as well as some of the public utility accounts. But what solution does the Greek Government finally take? In fact, it is stacking that piece of shipyards that are involved in the construction of torpedoes, making a payment of EUR 40 million. This sum includes EUR 20 million of the remaining initial price, 70% of the employees' wages and 60% of the public utility accounts. A timetable of twenty-nine months shall also be set from the date of signature of the Agreement. The question arises if the agreement is the best possible. In fact, I do not have an answer here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. However, we can ask a few questions, which are important to answer from the Minister and which are useful, so that we can also get concrete answers and finally see our position on the amendment. First, given that the company could not fulfil its obligations, did the Ministry consider whether or not it could terminate the contract and declare the contractor to be a discount? Would it be possible to use the amount committed by the guarantee letters, which I hear amount to 40 million, in order to finance the construction of the project? Someone could answer that the company would go bankrupt at the time. In fact, what is of interest to the Greek State is not whether it has the current administration or a bank, which has promised the company. What is of interest is that the project should be completed at the least cost and that workers continue to have jobs in the next few months. Secondly, even if the agreement goes ahead and construction is completed. What about the amount of the guarantee letters entered into by the Greek State? Are they going back to the company? This is an extremely serious issue to which you will have to reply. A third question is that nowhere, apart from one point, in Article 3(3), where you say 'if the sum exceeds EUR 40 million', there is no other clause. What clause is there, for example, if the company fails to pay 30% of the employees, 40% of the public utility accounts, and what clause is there if the company fails to complete the construction in twenty months in time or the start of the seventh torpedo in sixteen months? I think that specific commitments should be made on the part of the company, which will ensure all this. Furthermore, the twenty-nine months needed for completion apply from the date of signature of the agreement or should it be done from the date of receipt of the materials, since we are told that there will be a gap between signature and receipt of the materials? Finally, who is responsible for the completion of the project? The text refers to coordination, which will be carried out by the Hellenic Navy. But coordination is another thing and responsibility. For all these questions, we would like very specific answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u34	Thank you. Mr. Cassidyris, special speaker of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u35	We have also stressed in terms of voting against the Golden Dawn bill at first that once again the notorious 'pipe' is being promoted, that is, the involvement of political persons in the transfer of soldiers. So, starting with Article 1, in which we call 'no', which concerns the transfer of disciples, benches, officers and soldiers, it is once again a matter of involving political actors in this case. You say that the transfers will be decided and implemented by the Minister of Defence. That is unacceptable. We are voting against this article and we say that the competence of transfers should normally be limited to the Chiefs of the Arms and only senior officials, in general, and to these decisions should not have any bearing on political factors. Because that is the way in which there is absolutely no sense of democracy and justice. I repeat the false announcements, the false statements in the media, which we have all heard when the new conflict took place, that all men will go to Evros and not go to the city centers to sit at the offices. Not only has the opposite been done, but you are already institutionalising this situation by law. That is why we call 'no' to Article 1. In Article 2, too, we say 'no'. It's not meant that the cadet officers are charged with being accused of gunmen. In Article 3 we stressed our opposition to the notorious assumption of the coexistence agreement. If possible, soldiers, officers and officers who have married a man or a woman with a woman may be favoured. If that's possible! This situation is falling apart all seriousness. I do not want to go any further so that heavy expressions are not heard. We are therefore saying 'no' in Article 3. Of course, they should be given special treatment if there are multiple officers. Since they give men to the Armed Forces, yes, to be treated more favourably. But this is a symphony of symphony. In Article 4, on the submission of a statement of the place of preference, we are also saying 'no'. We refer to 'no' and to Article 5, which is a special committee for examining special transfers and placements. We will say'residents' in Article 6, especially in the case of armed forces who really have the right to be excluded from the system of quarantine, because they come from poor families, they have parents with disabilities. In Article 6, we will say'residents' about these specific exceptions. We will say 'no' to Article 7, however, because it is actually coming to overthrow the law that can be proposed through Article 6 and there will be a ministerial decision that will in some circumstances suspend the criteria of the mobilisation system of the transfers described in the previous article. With this article, we will have a very special field of micro-political activity by the Minister, which will suit his own people to win votes in the forthcoming elections. As far as Articles 8, 9, 10 and 11 are concerned, we do not think that the overall problems facing the military are solved. We are going to say'residences' in these articles. Let's go to Article 12 on ruthless and conscientious objections. Conscientious objections are not simply illegal, they are completely unconstitutional. According to the Constitution, all citizens are equal to the law and we all have to serve our homeland well in the Armed Forces. No one should be excluded from this principle. Bringing people into this House who in practice are seen as traitors - because they do not want to serve military service - is a misery, it is an act of inadmissible. 'No', therefore, in Article 12, no legalization of objections to conscience. Prison for conscientious and coercive work, this would do a serious national state for citizens who do not think they are equal to the rest of the citizens and do not do the right thing for our service to our homeland. In Articles 13 to 19 we will say 'the present'. Let us go to Article 20, which is equally unacceptable. Here is the multi-advertised Armour Support Office, where each bitter gets to denounce his superiors, the unit commander, his officers and officers because he's tired of gymnastics, because he may be afflicted by gymnastics, because he doesn't want to wear claws, but athletic shoes. This is therefore an unacceptable process, which hits at its core the spirit to be cultivated in a military unit. Imagine in time of war the soldier abandoning his position and calling because his superiors are badly dealing with him. That's not how an army works. 'No', therefore, in this article which we consider to be literally disgusting. We will say'residents' in Articles 21, 22, 23, 24 and we are voting against Article 25. This is SYRIZA's well-known idea of abolishing excellence. The ranking of the "very well" of the schools of the Armed Forces is changed down from "17" to "18,99" with "20", goes to "15" to "18,99". We do not know why this idealism exists, not only in terms of the Army but also in terms of abolishing excellence in high school and in high school for students. This is an act inadmissible, and it is a given that your Government because it is a government which does not work in the interests of the people and the nation, wants to float the mediums in a society that will stop resisting. It is another ideoscopy of SYRIZA, which actually changes downwards the grading scale in the schools and schools of the country's Armed Forces. That is why we are voting against Article 25. The training courses at the Aristotle University described in Article 26, we consider that they broaden the training and capabilities of the students of the SAA. We shall say 'the present'. As far as Article 27 is concerned, it is a sensitive issue for the service - if it is a service - of the Olympics to the Armed Forces. We don't think the Olympics should become officers. We honor the Olympians, we recognize their offer to the nation. You know, in antiquity it was an honor for Olympian not to be appointed an officer. In ancient Sparta, Olympiacos fought on the front line of the laconic phalanga and usually fell next to his king. Today we appoint the Olympians as officers. People have no opportunity to serve the Armed Forces. It is not possible for someone who has not completed his studies at a productive school in the Armed Forces to charge a spear and go to war. For this reason, although we recognize their offer in general to nation and country, we do not consider that they should be officers in the country's Armed Forces. We will say'residents' in Article 28 for the students of the above officers at the High School of War, as well as in Article 29. There is some legislative improvement here, although there is also the eternal complex of SYRIZA for excellence. In the transitional provisions, that is to say, Articles 30 and 31, we are also saying'represents'. And I will conclude with the amendments. We shall be saying'residents' in the amendment to the Fire Corps. We all know very well that the Security Bodies, the Greek Police, the Fire Corps have no spare parts to move their vehicles. They pay out of their pocket the men who serve in these bodies to serve. And this is a situation where you cannot change it, because you prefer the minimum resources of the state to channel them elsewhere and not where they are useful to the people and the nation. You prefer to give subsidies to parties, you prefer to give pensions to MPs, rather than to have spare parts for the police, the Fire Service, the Hellenic Army, the Navy, the Air Force. We will say 'no' to the amendment on fuel stock, because we have absolutely no confidence in the present government in what happens with these stocks. We've even seen cooking in the Armed Forces' units cooking for illegal immigrants and even making use of feeding supplies to feed illegal immigrants. So we have absolutely no confidence in what the Minister is doing with these stocks, and that is why we are voting against this amendment. We call 'yes' to the amendment concerning the construction of torpedoes at Elefsina Shipyards. Of course, there must be infinite steps towards the self-sufficiency of the Greek nation in arms, and there is no intention of doing so, because at the request of the German economic oligarchy to all governments, not only to your own country, our country must not be self-sufficient in food or food, nor in medicines or arms. The position of the Golden Dawn is the nationalization, statization and subsidisation of all the neo-Algerian defence industries. In this case, in the amendment concerning Elefsina Shipyards, we will say 'yes', although we recognise that there has been absolutely no attempt by your Government to be self-sufficient in weapons to work Greek in the country's neuro-Algerian defence industries. We will say "residents" in the amendment for the two-year term of the Chief of Greek Police. We are voting against the bill in principle and I have specifically referred to the articles which, in a large number, are unacceptable and promote misery in the country's Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Cassidy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, fifty-four students and apprentices and five teachers from the High School of Agia Larissa. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech in the morning at first reading, I had reminded myself of a parentheses we had in the debate on the budget, because then the refugee - immigration, once again in Idomen, was on the rise. At that time the Minister, Mr Muzalas, had come here and discussed. Today I made the same appeal, because the issues of refugee immigration whenever the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible attend a meeting of the European Union's organs are returned to us with a few hundred thousand more obligations in our country for the hospitality of refugees. Our request today was not accepted. Is the Minister missing? I don't know. However, the government has not given us any clarification. The Bureau of Parliament has not been informed. There is no information. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of underlining the inadmissible attitude of Turkey, the government's 'greater' and 'terror' attitude turns us into a black sheep in the European Union. All the discussions we have highlighted this morning are the discussions that are taking place in the most intense way on an explosive issue, as we all agree. We too underline the Union's responsibilities and stand at the side of the government, but what is happening here? What obligations do we not fulfil every time and consider us black sheep and load us with other obligations? And what Mr. Dannelis said this morning, I hadn't seen it, Mr. Comrade. Has Mr. Muzala been criticised at the Ministry of National Defence for not supporting the country's policy? You did not answer your speech. And finally, let him do what Mr. Muzalas has to do and let him not come to the National Representation. Have you answered that reproach? We want an answer, Minister. It's one of the most serious issues facing the country. Don't say that and you don't mean it. And you're talking to opposition parties that have supported the efforts. I referred to this in the morning. Now, as far as the draft law and our debate under article are concerned, many majority Members spoke this morning too strictly about the client state, in which I made repeated references to the Standing Committee, but also this morning and I will do it again now. We are saying the same about the need to eliminate this poor source of a client state in the field of soldiers serving their term of office. However, it is a question of resolving the problem and not maintaining the same. I listened with great interest to the eight additions made by the government, as the Minister said this morning and saw them again, one by one. If we exclude one or two Members, most of them tabled as additions, they exist in the current legislative framework. I agree with Mr. Kefaliannis. It should have us with a quasi-consumer attachment, because the client state will now not function, since to a very large extent the regulations in the form of regulatory acts, ministerial decisions, orders from the staff are very little - very much there are. And why, Minister, since you intend to transfer responsibility to the Staff, do you need time now to inform them? Only the present draft law, only here in the House, is three weeks and it is right that it is three weeks. Didn't you have the time to make this briefing so that you have also presented the ministerial decision here, the authority on your part, that you are conferring powers on the leadership of the Armed Forces, to the House? Why haven't you done it? The suspicions, colleagues of the majority,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u38	What have I not informed the Staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u39	If you had done the briefing and consultation with the Staff, on the application of the criteria, all that you told us this morning here...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u40	This one's always done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u41	If you are constantly done and ready, bring in until the meeting is over, the draft ministerial decision where you are assigned responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u42	What does one have to do with the other?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u43	Any minister who wants to convince the National Representation - I am sorry, here I have experience and testify - that he intends to assign it and how he will delegate it, bring the decision along with his law and says: 'I will have published this in ten days after the law has been published.' That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you have raised your mind this morning, we have reservations. We want to support this and if you do so in practice in the next few days, you will hear our public support. But because we have heard a lot from many of us, and this issue has not been healed at times by the Defence Ministers, the order in question, the ministerial decision in question, and the solution to the problem, we are not chewing, Minister. Experience leads us there and we want to see everything. We're visual guys. If we don't see them, we don't believe them. And I cannot forget that the Simitis government has tried to reduce the base of the client state. It is not the Peloponnese border line, while from the governments of the New Democracy, we had camps in the Peloponnese, which were opened again. Because the temptation of the client state is also present to you. See what happens with the appointments of the posters. I don't want to expand. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a House, you can hear it. It's not about talking about it. You'll say it and you'll hear it. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u44	But listen to what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u45	The temptation is always here and if you make sinners, your life is disgusting. Draw your arguments a little, your nose will fall. You raised it very high and that's not what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u46	And yours has long gone too.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u47	Here we want to support and you have not been used to this House recently with the opposition of this level, which all your parties are looking after, not just us. A creative opposition. You only insist on 'no' and on collapsing. Now you're listening to something else. But you'll find out, experience is good. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So why have you not announced a year ago - the Minister himself - changes in the structure, in the camps, a reintroduction of the 2003-2004 framework? Do another better, which reduces temptations. Every village and camp. These are the big issues. Do not now lift the word of criticism and fingers for things that you are not sure of. I hope you make it better. After all, our creative attitude results from all the articles that we will be voting in favour. Now, as far as the articles are concerned. I also told you in committee about Article 3(4): since skills are acquired on the basis of skills, what do you want the social criteria? Now are we right or wrong to suspect this? The social criteria are added to various specific treatments. Right? But when it comes to giving specialty and you say 'I want skills as a prerequisite', the social criteria, what do you want them? Apparently to overthrow skills and relativize them. It didn't stand and it doesn't stand in Article 3(4). As far as Article 5 is concerned, I told you that the committee examining the requests, the complaints, must identify them to us in terms of its composition. You say 'Committee'. What kind of committee is this? I knew you made her five. I didn't see it. I knew you specified the number. I didn't see it. I asked you to identify both the number and the qualities, which people would...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u48	Properties shall be identified. Didn't you see it? Scientists...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u49	I'm talking about Article 5.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u50	For Article 5 or Article 20?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u51	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u52	In Article 7(3), another source of a client state! The "kowls" that serve in foreign places! What are these positions? Some of them are necessary. We asked you to record them. We didn't have it. So not to speak with excesses of honesty, honesty and divorce with the client state! We say 'yes' in Article 7, despite being in Section I, because it is a technical article. We're not unreasonable. We say 'yes' to Article 8 for doctors. In Article 9, my colleague, Mr Kyriazidis, opened my eyes. Mr. Cryazides made me see the position of a legal counsel you're talking about. That is right, since the first time we praised it - those who are a legal adviser to mean this and exercise in their law. The Minister, you, do you have a legal counsel for a poster? We in the other ministries had a counsellor's position and some of them, most of them, were legal. If it is a legal adviser and you mean the legal operator, that applies to all services. Tell us. It must apply to all services that a person with legal supplies, a graduate of law, is employed in an object mentioned in his science. Article 9 will be supplemented. Since Golden Dawn there was an observation in the morning, what you say - only for lawyers and doctors. We talked about this in the Standing Committee. Rule 10 says about the rest. It is simply the peculiarities of the other professions, which need to be regulated, and Article 10 is thus formulated. I come to Article 11 for a normalization allowance. He doesn't convince me. I am not convinced by the General Accounting Report that it has recorded expenditure. And since we are in agreement with your amendment, Mr Colleague, to extend the normalization allowance to all members without quantifying what funds this is, I imagine that the whole of Article 11 is somewhere 'in the air' and we are discussing it to extend it and its basis is not given. I now come to Article 12. I am very sorry for what Mr Tasoula and Mr Tasoula have said. In the Golden Dawn committee I understood it, because it is the approach that is so extreme and cruel and unjust. But does Mr. Tasoulus say the same thing about issues of conscientious objections? Is it possible when we have a 30-year-old past? We were told in the 1980s that, when we introduced this benefit in the rule of law - it took the first steps of the rule of law in this regard - that everyone would expect to be opposed. Life has proved the opposite, exactly the opposite! Nobody gets involved in these issues if they don't mean it. And now we're still coming to support...? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am not going to answer that question, Mr President. I don't have time for a second. There are so many provisions and so many amendments. And there are amendments from the side of the SYRIZA that we support. Ladies and gentlemen, the fines cannot be made as far as possible by the hunting of those people who, for the same crime, have been subjected to disciplinary action many times. As the Committee on Human Rights tells us in its report, for the same offence you cannot be tried more than once. Also for the term of office. Half of normal for others is enough. We support all three of these interventions and accept that this is not the draft law, the right legislative area to resolve this issue on a number of occasions. This is an opportunity, however, and you have so many parties and people and institutions who say to you: 'Do it!'. I'd have done it if I were you. With the honour of having written the first provision in 1986-87 and remembering what nonsense life proved to be, I encourage you, Minister, to do so and we will support you. Now, for those who have medical problems, I don't think any medical certificate is enough. It must be a medical certificate from a public hospital. And I'm asking you to fill this stuff in. I told you this morning - and I conclude - on the proxy of Article 13(2) with the comments made to you by the Scientific Studies Directorate - and see that we are positive, but after a thorough study of the problem with the solutions given by Article 29(3) in conjunction with Article 25 for the reclassification of approximately two hundred officers who have been wronged. We've looked into it, colleagues. It is wrong to say that there is a reduction in excellence here. It's an intervention that cures a flaw. We had reservations. We have heard the parties with reservations. We talked. The agencies are here. We all got messages from interested parties, with arguments. We have read them in the Standing Committee. I think it's a good, after all, choice. We are now talking about the Skourlet amendment. And condolences! As regards Mr Toska's amendment, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a client state! - We support this Chief. We'll support the next one to do his job well. We don't have a party mood. We didn't make the choice of this leader, but he was very good. He turned out to be very good at his job. Let the next one prove himself. The term of office of the President shall expire in April. What do you want with this now? You want to change him now, two months earlier - and you are exposed for this - to make the new procedures. You want to say now here that we don't suspect the practice? We - I tell you again - will respect the choice of the government. The chief of police will respect him and we will support his work. But now you are tempted to think about what makes you urgent two months before the end of his two-year term - it has not been renewed. And the man has dignity. What's he asking for anyway? Nothing. What's your hurry three months ago? Obviously, you want to organize the next places. If this isn't a suspicion, what would it be? Look at it. The world hasn't been lost for a month. Expose for a month. You should look at these things. Why can't you say the words and the words in this Chamber and want to come out from above? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we insist on our refusal in principle for the reasons we have mentioned. We have said so in the vote this morning at first reading. But you will see that for both the second and third sections of the bill in the almost completeness of the provisions, we are in agreement and will vote for them and I hope that they will be implemented in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u53	Mrs. Kanelli, the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be short and try to include everything. But here we are talking about correcting various issues and we have not corrected things in here. The articles are given eight minutes. At first: fifteen minutes. Say which of the rapporteurs here had the comfort of shrinking in eight minutes, thirty, forty, there are bills with fifty, sixty, seventy articles - and twelve amendments I have here? If I want to distribute my time in television terms, because we have learned - at least in my profession - to work with seconds, I will tell you that twelve amendments and thirty one articles, if you distribute them in eight minutes, are from four seconds, five seconds, ten seconds for each post. How can I explain that? We're going to the articles. Now you'll tell me I'm wasting time on all this. Well, it can't be. You cannot completely come here and talk about things that can be vital to a proportion of the population, in this case a portion of the soldiers and soldiers. Because you have such issues. Let us start with the unacceptable. The meeting begins at 12 noon and you have an amendment tabled at 12 noon? The plenary session! You yelled in here, you yelled at us, you hurried about this practice! You have brought three amendments - the amendments you have put forward - on the one hand because they are urgent, on the other, because the Minister remembered it, on the other hand, because you want to prevent crises. So, how is this thing going to work on the substance? To make sure that the "probe" is over? "Prick" isn't over! It's settled, delimited, it'll be for use. You didn't finish the "pising", you couldn't finish the "pising" under these conditions. It can't be done. I'll bring you a distinctive example. We get lost when you put it down at the last minute, things get out of hand. You have brought an amendment that we have said we should vote on, 'the special leave of officials.' We sit there and read it. After second reading, in depth, can I tell you where we have a problem? In paragraph 1, you shall provide for the granting of licences by the Armed Forces, for those elected, unpaid or, in particular, on a case-by-case basis.’ However, while the article concerns staff members, as shown by its title in the text of the paragraph, it refers to the amendment'military staff'. Since the right to vote is not about the officers, you should write "sponsored officers". Once you write this, one wonders: What if the latter are being promoted to officers? They'll be out of settlement because they won't be in charge, why would they have become officers? Will they lose the right to be elected? What do you have to do? Fill it out in a way that also concerns officers or exclude them. Will you tell me: details? Go ask those who have the problem. It's not a detail. Let us go to paragraph 2 of the same amendment: 'The time of the proposed licence is not calculated for the grading promotions and wage increases of the military'. What's that supposed to mean? Will time be taken as a service time to be elected and promoted properly? If they are elected and understood as a pre-service time, do you consider it fair for the rest to be the time of normal service, even if it relates to multiple terms? Shouldn't you change it? Shouldn't you make it clear? How are we gonna get through this thing? You know that at the last minute - for example, I will speak and I will be here when the time comes to vote, because if I talk about all the amendments, which are too many and essential, I will not speak to you at all about the articles - you are bringing us an amendment on firearms and these issues, etc. Who do you sign with? With NATO, do you actually expect us to say yes? How are we going to say yes to meet needs and holes? In other words, you have things in here that come into body and sometimes, in the good intention of perhaps - let me not question it - there are some mistakes. Let's go to the articles. We insist in the first article. Don't tell me now he's a political chief of the Armed Forces the Minister! Of course the Minister is in charge. Does he have the ability to cancel transfers? Does he have the ability to determine the molecules? Is it possible to give instructions on the determination of molecules? And it still has the ability to promote politics in crisis, individual, subjective - so as not to use heavy words, because today the thousands of millions have been heard. In Article 1 we will tell you 'no'. There is no way, it is also the contradiction that the "spot" has ended. It's not over. In Article 2, we will say 'yes'. I come to Article 3, paragraph 5. You cannot have a well-established staff management system if it is unreliable - not to play any role in the political office, because here you are taking even legal advisers to find solutions, in cooperation with the respective social care services of the Ministry, which we know is its black mess. In paragraph 10, connect the molecules procedure to disciplinary misconduct. And that alone, since it is not specified and we will go to the military regulation where we will make a combination, subjective interpretation of the disciplinary misconduct, so we are changing moleculosis. No, nothing else, but cut off the big talk. We shall not therefore vote on Article 3 because it is suffering. In Article 4 we will say 'yes'. In Article 5 we will tell you'residents', because we have reservations about the second paragraph and the objective and fair judgment of the commander. If all the crises were objective and fair, you had no reason to bring this bill here. What if by definition do you think the commander's judgment is objective and fair? What do you need so many defenses, psychological support, five hundred things? Why? In Article 5, then, we say 'the present'. In Article 6 you made the change, which is correct. From state agencies, certificates for users who ended the problem. We'll vote for it. Article 7 is to be voted on. In Article 8 we try to explain to you: We do not have them with doctors who will kindly cover, and based on this law here, the void on the poor island that has no doctor. You're doing damage, actually. We're trying to explain it to you in all tons. First of all, when you find structural solutions through the system itself to cover a hole with a patch, this is no more permanent. It's free, it's from the Army. Do not follow the JRC policy to recruit doctors. Here are the machinery they need, be health centers at the end of the country, be the way they will be treated. The skilled soldier will cover the hole and will cover it at the same time in his unit and in the village and on the island. Why? Cover a hole with a patch. The patch is from the flesh of the unexistent. This could be said to be able to stand if you, for example, had a system in which the part of health is from the end to the end of the country impeccable. That's great! They'd have had a long time and five, you'd have gone. We can't vote for it. We will say'residents', because he is in fact suffering and produces two speed doctors as well. It produces two - speed doctors, for it is devastated after extravagant things. In Article 9, we are voting 'at present'. In Article 10 we say 'yes'. In Article 11 we say 'yes'. In Article 12 we say 'the present'. From Rule 13 to Article 19 we shall vote 'yes'. In Article 20, when we talked to you about military support structures at the level of the battalion, we didn't tell you to build an office just psychological support, with which we have no objection if you want to fix it. We're not talking about psychological support. We are talking about that support resulting from the analysis, recording, sharing of experiences on the basis of soldiers in the space of a battalion. There are common problems. It's not just individual reports. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if I have to take the time of my dentistry. I think that tolerance can exist on this issue. It's not to override the hierarchy you're afraid of. The hierarchy is not overridden. It shall be strengthened at the level of the structure downwards. What are you afraid of? I told you before: What are you afraid to do in such a office, which is not a complaints office, a case of complaints? We also had that unpublished minister who had made his own website and sent him mail and tweets from the soldiers to take off their problems. What happened? You know what? The gunmen and their families have been aggravated by the general situation. So they also have common problems. They are not just personalized subjective problems of a soldier who can seek help. Mind if they come to an understanding at an organized level rather than just a group or a group that gathers in a café? What would the approach of this kind mind? If that were the case, then the spectators would know collectiveness rather than the perception 'how we deal with it'. We shall therefore vote 'the present'. In Article 21, the need for specialization to meet this vocational requirement is so general. There's no service investigation. In your academic institutions we proposed it - you could pass it - to have a list of real areas with specific student numbers, with predefined standards. These are the things that apply, regardless of who's commander, regardless of who's Minister. These would clean this up and help professional understanding too. We shall say 'the present'. It could be better. In Article 22 we say 'yes'. In Article 23 we say 'yes'. In Article 24 we say 'yes'. In Article 25 we say 'the present'. In Article 26 we will tell you'residents', because training programmes may be NATO and NATO has a mania to train in certain things. You know, you can learn and psychology of torture at Guantánamo level without leaving any traces. There is huge international experience from what NATO can give as a scholarship. You know, NATO is the same thing, which said the Kosovar rebels and then told them organ dealers and now it's legal people who have to come out quickly and represent. NATO is what decides which country is rock state, which is not, if Iran is good or bad, whether it is censorship to hide the genitals of a statue or whether it is natural courtesy. You know, that's an allure, a culture of Western perception, as it were of good and evil. At the same time, nakedly, the bodies of the children. In Article 27 we will vote'residents' because we have told you that it is not possible for Olympic medals to be turned to the military. It also hurts the Olympic medals, hurts the Army, and deprives people of talent, specialists who could offer popular sport and federations, from experts' positions not to break off "FIFES". And on the track we have FIFES, we have everywhere. In order not to undo "FIFES" with international scandals, we think that at least some athletes could help, together with their experience, in this area. In Article 29 we will say 'yes' as in Articles 30 and 31. In short, you have not brought revolution. We didn't faint from innovation. You have not brought any necessary amendments. You brought convenients and usefuls at the right time. We will not now sit down and look at exactly when and how the crisis will take place - and present as a democracy - for the Chief of Police. At the shipyards right now, the blackmailed and unpaid workers will see as a manna the pussies you are giving them with the amendment you are bringing. Unpaid workers are involved. And when workers arrive to accept crumbs as a manna from heaven, the damage is too great for workers, as well as for the workplace. It's survival, it's not life! So don't show up here as a salvage. The money as it is in the Tavoularis amendment goes. To be realistic. They're subsidising him to keep part of the workers alive. And yet you had taken the ballot, you had told them that there would be a constant job, that there would be a continuous order, that the seats would be guaranteed, and now we are coming here with an amendment to Saturday's cake, on the arrangements of the gunmen's issues, to say, 'Get them to the shipyards'. What am I going to tell you? I will tell you. Will you leave them unpaid? Oh, no. The point? 'no' should have been me and the workers told you. Crowded, they voted to accept it. Why? For we have come into the mind that it is a social state and "from the whole good and Panagiotina". So on the basis of what I told you about the articles, the whole thing simply ended up 'good and Panagiottana'. And these are neither nice nor left nor progressively nor helpful. It's just a stretched hand in moving sand, with workers in moving sand, and the common hand slips worse than moving sand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Canelley. But we must say that this bill has been discussed in four meetings in the committee responsible. Members of Parliament who are involved and, of course, have also been voted on or voted against.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u56	The five fat amendments came today at 12 noon. That's what I talked about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u57	I agree with you on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u58	Five!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u59	I agree with you in the amendments. But, basically, the plenary is about the Members who are not part of the committee, who are two hundred fifty, two hundred forty, depending on the committee, who are not involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u60	It's okay. Time is up. Let's have three or four meetings.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u61	I'm not talking about you, Mrs. Canelley. But the Members must express themselves. If, however, the same people who speak in committees, the MPs do not speak. Because, here, today's bill was decided to end at a meeting. So the time has to be given to the Members, who are the majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u62	Look, we're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u63	Mrs. Kanelle, I don't disagree with you, but I have to give some explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u64	Have another meeting, Mr. President. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u65	We don't do it. You put it in the Conference of Presidents, Mr Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u66	Whole amendment we brought in for a month of the police officer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u67	For what Mrs Canelles says about the amendments, I agree with her, but we must also speak to the Members, and my request is in this direction. Mr. Danellis from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will pass as soon as I can in the individual articles. In paragraph 1a of Article 2, Minister, we have proposed that we do not adopt a new definition which refers to the needs of this law, which refers to the term 'citizens', and also to the cadets, benches, assistants, etc. There's already one used term: rigged soldiers. This term exists in Article 4 of Military Code 20-1, n.e.c. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The term'regulated military' can be adopted and so we can overcome - even if you do not mean it and obviously do not mean it - the issue of the deterioration of the aggression, essays, assistant officers, instigator officers, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u69	We have recast Article 1 in such a way that it is visible. 2.1 has been completely removed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u70	Good. Thank you. In Article 5, we insist that the setting-up of a committee for the examination of exceptional locations weakens the philosophy of the draft legislation. Nor is there any need for a further committee and much more need to be clarified. In relation to Article 6, which describes the terms and conditions of the exceptions, we insist that paragraph 4, should be removed, because that remains essentially and potentially a window for seven hundred to eight hundred rhyphetological transfers per ESS, which no one can control but the relevant Minister. As we said in our morning speech at the outset, it is good that the provision for the military settlement of a significant number of subordinates is positive. This issue created a great problem for both themselves and their families. Thus, the elimination of the glimpse of impotence and the possibility for the over thirty-five to take over the rest of their term of office is an extremely positive sign. It is good that you accept the amendment we tabled to reduce the amount of compensation to the public of each month from which they had to serve. With regard to the provision of Article 12, which recognises twenty days of service to over thirty-five, it is positive to update the draft law. In the second part of the bill on the care of the staff, Article 8 agrees that it is useful and positive in those specialties that the term of office may be of benefit to the soldiers, to adopt it and to promote it. We must, however, be careful on the issues of doctors whether the doctor of a unit will be able to work twice, because of course the pressure will be great. I have in mind mainly the border regions, the islands, etc. In Article 12 on objections, we agree with the amendments tabled by colleagues from SYRIZA. A thought which I am presenting to you is whether we can create an additional incentive for objections in order to provide services on small islands, in border areas, to those municipalities that cannot guarantee the necessary staff to have a proper function. It's known that Kassos, let's say, of the twenty-eight organic positions, if I remember well, now only covers one. He's got a primary clerk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u71	If I may, what you say about the border is provided for in the legislation in force. The problem is that there is no corresponding number.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u72	Yeah, it doesn't exist. That's what I'm talking about. It may be an extra incentive but also a tool to improve the use of the services of conscience objections, which, as an alternative, can create an additional incentive for them to cover such services useful to local communities. In the third part concerning education, we have a problem with Article 25. The deterioration in the ratings of schools - with the reason that we have referred to in the committee - we consider it to be problematic, because, in general, it fosters a minor effort spirit in an environment of excellence and commitment to high objectives, such as the schools of the Armed Forces. In Article 27 we disagree. The continued rewarding of the athletes, our champions - whom we obviously honour - by rendering an officer's seat in the Armed Forces also degrades them and, of course, the Armed Forces. I think she's obsolete and unsuccessful all this case if we look at it in time. Article 29, in particular the provisions of paragraph 3, shall apply to what I have referred to. I don't want to add anything else. We disagree. For Rule 31, as I said this morning, Minister - I think you were not here at the time - perhaps this is the right opportunity to close another loose end in relation to the right of the militant young people who now serve their mandate for permits, favourable transfers, etc., of those who are present in local government. There are very few young people elected to local government, but there are, of course, those officials who have properly improved and included some favourable provisions for other civil servants, but not for officials. We think it would be fair, however, to add the paragraph 7 of Article 93 of the Treaty. 3852/2010 on transfers of officials, as is the case with other civil servants, so that they can provide their services to the government. I think that the improvement you have already made will not apply much. So, at least for the transfer, I think you should see it again and it's an opportunity to do it now. I would like to close my reference to the articles, once again repeating the self-evident: the fair and transparent rules of the game are certainly a clearly necessary treaty. This necessary treaty will only be possible if there is a political will to implement this framework of rules and regulations and this will be tested today and tomorrow. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like two minutes to refer to some of the amendments very briefly. For the amendment which was known to us, since we were involved in the procedures for informing and exchanging views on the shipyards - which is a great question of looseliness and must obviously find a compromise to walk this very ill case at last - I would like you, Minister, to tell us if you believe that the delivery of ships is ensured by the provisions we are called upon to vote on. In other words, if you think that the shipyard's employer guarantees the completion of the construction and delivery of ships, it must do so. As far as the amendment tabled by Mr Toskas is concerned, we should accept it. However, while this harmonisation of years appears rational, why should it not apply next time? Since it is a matter of months to end the term of office of today's Chief, why not be honest and even be honest? I think we are not convinced that there is such a need for a few months of dispute to have the end of the mandate of today's Chief and the choice of a new one. Let this rationalisation of the years be applied next time. In relation to the amendments by SYRIZA colleagues on the alternative term of office of the negative consciences, I would like to say that we support them. We agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u73	Mr. Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u74	Mr President, I would like to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u75	Others have declared themselves. You're welcome, Mr. Katsiki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to agree with the President that we need to give the floor more to fellow Members than to us who, as representatives and rapporteurs, each for his party, met four times in the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs and two today, six together, to say a little bit - very little - the same things with some minor differences. But I have to do this, firstly, because that is what the procedure requires. Secondly, because once again I have to emphasise what we believe. This is no longer the case that this bill is important and we must support it. Before I enter the essence of the debate, I should like to express my deep regret and grief, because for the first time in the Greek Parliament by a Member - and I am referring to the representative of the Golden Dawn - it has been heard that the country's Armed Forces are incapable. As he also commented on what the President of Independent Greeks and Minister of National Defence served in connection with his relative, who was in Attica and today serves many miles away. So let Mr. Cassidyris decide what is merciful and damnable, whether to serve within the Lefkanopedi or a lot of kilometres away from it. Ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned in my position this morning, the main objective of the bill is to finalise customer transfers and to put an end to opaque procedures. Continuing the preparation of this draft law, I would like to focus on an article-based analysis and, in particular, on the most important articles in this draft law, which is divided into three parts. In the first part, which deals with the transfer of soldiers, a new and fairer process of positioning and transfer to the Armed Forces is being established, so that the units can be staffed with the greatest possible proportion in all three branches of the Armed Forces, namely the Army of the Drought, the Air Force and the Navy. In particular, operational, economic, social and objective criteria shall be established in accordance with Article 3. As I said this morning, so far for exceptional transfers, only social criteria, such as health issues for soldiers or their parents, applied. This article provides for the adoption of economic criteria, due to the economic crisis which is plagued by our country. Articles 4 and 5 establish the procedure for examining these criteria by the Agency, for examining the requests for exceptional transfers and for the establishment of categories of vulnerable groups excluded from the general moleculation system. In the second part of the bill, which concerns the care of personnel of the Armed Forces and, more specifically, Article 8, in addition to the positive I mentioned during my morning speech - such as the possibility for armed doctors who are graduated in medicine to serve in vacant posts of regional public health services, barren, remote and problematic areas - there is provision for them to remain in the health service which they served until the necessary countryside service has been completed with a decision of the Minister for Health. Article 12 rethinks the military obligations of the subordinates. In addition, it is determined to eliminate the criminality of impunity and to remove the administrative and criminal consequences for them. Article 15 defines how different special categories of military, such as multiple parents, single parent families and suffering from incurable diseases are transferred. The Armed Forces Support Offices shall be established in Article 20 by General Staff, with the aim of supporting the Armed Forces and investigating any complaints or omissions by the Administration. The third part of the draft law promotes arrangements concerning the training of Armed Forces officials. Article 21 enables permanent staff of the Armed Forces to participate in undergraduate or postgraduate courses of higher education institutions by obtaining a training permit. Finally, Article 24 establishes the status of graduates of the above military faculties and stipulates that their education is now three years old. The Independent Greeks are also voting in favour of this bill, which promotes provisions that regulate and solve important and time-consuming problems of the Armed Forces. Mr President, I have done my best for the time economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Katsiki, because you were time-consuming, bearing in mind that no Member has yet spoken of a point of order. We are going on with Mr Saridis, on behalf of the Centron Association. You have the floor, Mr. Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not take you too much time either. The procedures for proper legislation have been complied with this time and we, the Vice-Presidents, can therefore also be useful. It's the first bill that didn't come with the indication of urgency, it's the first bill that's really been discussed and improved. I am happy to see that, at last, some work is done after a long time in here, and this work is about this bill. The government has listened to what we have said about the members who are taking care of small and medium-sized enterprises, and we are waiting for their implementation, in accordance with the commitment to immediately regulate this issue in a further bill after the financial burden has been fixed. So I move on to our article. Articles 1 to 6 do have many sensitive points to judge the success of this law and the responsibility for it will be shared by the Minister. On the one hand, the many responsibilities of our Minister are concerned. We have also told the committees that. We have touched on it in all the committees. But we accept your explanation of transferring responsibilities to the Staff. In order not to be long, Articles 1 to 6 are indeed unprecedented, but intentions are not, as you know, enough, so they will be judged in their implementation. It's on a new road, it's something different, they needed, there was a shortage in this space. We, as the Central Association, are voting for these articles, we say 'yes' from Article 1 to 6, with the hope that they will be implemented properly and with the emphasis that we will monitor their development and their consequences closely. Articles 7 to 22 provide for self-evident things that we could not vote for as a whole. It is right to combine the time of our doctors' agricultural military obligation, to recognise the work of our lawyers, to create the Citizens' Office correctly. So we say 'yes' to Article 7, 'yes' to Article 8 for doctors, we say 'yes' to Article 9 for the service time of the Armed Forces. We are quite clear about 'yes' and Article 10 on mobilisation of the ten-year-olds. With regard to Article 12, we have also asked the Ministry a relevant question in order to know the exact number of unsubstantiated people and we reserve this article until we see in practice how the law will be implemented. Article 13, if implemented correctly, will indeed be a blow to bureaucracy, as codification of all licences serves, in particular, the interests of the military officials. Article 14 provides - and it well does - for the application of judicial decisions to measure the years of service of military officials from the AACC. Articles 18 and 19 are well and can be incorporated into this bill, 18 as an act of state respect for the families of our officials who deviate during the performance of an orderly service and for that reason Article 19, because these unreasonable and unorthodox discrimination, which has so far been the case, on the feeding of club officials, who are rightly abolishing this article, have created an appropriate ground for discrimination. These discriminations in any case did not strengthen the military attitude based on respect for the hierarchy, but must be inspired by the principles of equality and respect for officials. The establishment of the Armed Forces Support Office is an initiative that is still clearly under control for its effectiveness in practice. We really need to take care of these issues and recognise the need for this Office to function is a good step in itself. Like all possible good bills, this will be judged in its implementation. With regard to Articles 21 to 27, I believe that they are effectively dealing with a number of very serious issues relating to military education relating to ensuring equal opportunities for the education and continuous improvement of the personnel of the Armed Forces. Of course, we have said about Article 25 of our reservations to the committees, but they are withdrawn after the explanations given by the Minister. With regard to the amendment relating to the end of the term of office of the Chief of Police, we as the Centro Association will vote'residents'. On the amendment concerning firefighting and the extension of the anti-missile period, we shall vote 'yes'. We shall also vote 'yes' in the amendment on the register. As regards the amendment to the torpedoes, we are waiting for the answers to the questions put by our Parliamentary representative Mr Karas. To sum up, I'd say we have a serious bill in our hands. With your commitment - and I say this again - to officials who take care of HEIs, we are waiting for the implementation and immediate regulation of these issues. In principle, we are voting in favour of the bill, and so are the articles just as they have been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Because he has a special reason and has long asked for the floor, Mr Pallis, to leave, I will give him the floor. As I must tell you, we will continue with three Members. Mrs. Antoniou...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u80	Mr President, for reasons of parliamentary order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u81	You're welcome, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u82	I have asked to speak as a parliamentary representative and you will allow me to speak after Mr Pafile, whom I recognise. I did not place myself in the first place this morning, precisely to be placed this afternoon. We must be clear: the role of the parliamentary representative is not the role of expressing his views, even in conscience and in the Constitution. He has the rights and obligations of the party's leader, whose views he expresses. It is therefore not at its personal discretion to be polite or to give the Bureau the opportunity to place ten or five or six Members before that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u83	Mr Dendas, I appreciate what you are saying, but, as you know, the Rules of Parliament do not say that parliamentary representatives should speak in the order of power of their parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u84	They shall take the floor if they so request. I haven't spoken since this morning, although some colleagues have been overtaken by themselves, at least as it concerns me.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u85	But he has asked for the floor before you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u86	He's so stylishly dressed that we can't deny his word.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u87	After Mr. Pafile, Mr. Theocharis and Mr. Theocharopoulos have in turn asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u88	Let's change the Rules of Procedure then!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u89	Mr President, not the Parliamentary Representatives together!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u90	Please, Mrs. Alonitou, don't interrupt. If we apply the Rules of Procedure, we will go in that direction. I, however, propose that some Members who have been waiting since the morning should also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u91	It is not at the discretion of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u92	But if you insist that the Rules of Procedure be applied...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u93	It is not at the discretion of parliamentarians that they should not be placed and I do not have the opportunity to insist on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u94	I say to you that if you insist, the Rules of Procedure will apply, but they will speak in the order that the parliamentary representatives have stated. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u95	I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u96	I try to make it easier for the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u97	Mr President, let us not continue this glorious debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u98	Okay. I don't want to go on with her either. Because I don't feel like having an argument with you personally. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u99	I say we must stop this story and not be fooled. So who are you blaming? Didn't you decide to discuss this at two meetings, like the previous one? What is it, then, that Members can't talk? Are you telling us this too? We've two talked. Tell your government and the majority you have, give another meeting, so that each Member can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u100	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u101	What harmed you, then, the twenty minutes we've been talking to so far? I didn't talk in the morning. We said we should put ourselves in total. What do you want, finally, to apply the Rules of Procedure? If it is implemented, the parliamentary representative shall take the floor and in the order in which he is asked for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u102	The Rules of Procedure will apply. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u103	I therefore say that for the reasonable protests and all that story for Members to speak, please address those who decide. And decides the guy who has the knife and cuts the melon, i.e. the government majority. Protest to your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u104	We didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u105	Time is eight minutes, under the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u106	I don't have eight minutes, Mr. President. I didn't talk in the morning. Secondly, protest, but bring amendments at 12: 00'? Why don't you say anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u107	Mr. Paphie, no one said anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u108	No one complains.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u109	I know exactly what I'm saying, Mr. Lappa. We know each other. I would therefore say, Minister, that at 12 noon you have tabled amendments. They were too late. So, what's that called now? What you blamed. But we said the student gets better than the teacher, most of the time. In order not to waste time, Liana Canelle has been placed in detail. I will say a general assessment of our party in terms of the bill and we will also talk about certain issues, which seem to be not related, but also related to the bill and which none of the other side dares to touch on. We are therefore saying that the bill is trying to deal with some problems, but it does not give solutions to the serious problems faced by soldiers, soldiers and soldiers in general. It solves some individual management problems, which is why we are voting on them, although we would like more, but in total what is called "location", "change", etc., is not the case. But we want to ask a question. What is the role of the country's Armed Forces? We say that the country's Armed Forces must defend the territorial integrity and borders of the country. It's over. Do you agree with all the wings? Apart from one that I am not addressing. Do you agree? Do you agree, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u110	I was placed this morning, Mr. Palphie, on this one.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u111	It's a rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u112	So what do you ask me?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u113	But is that true? So, is it true that the Armed Forces of Greece have a unique mission to defend the country's borders and territorial integrity? We say no, it's not true. The fact that the soldiers, the soldiers, the officers, etc., want and that is what they think - but also the reality - does not change the substance. So - we will analyse it - one can find it in the policy that has been pursued over the past few years and now too. What did the governments do and what does today do? It applies literally to the naval decisions concerning the defence doctrine, structures, administration and structure of the Armed Forces. Yes or no? We say yes. And we'll prove it. The country's military doctrine has changed - if I remember correctly - against Mr Tsohatzopoulos and the naval cheques have been followed. From pure defensive - what happened? - It's a deterrent. Of course, there is also the next step adopted by NATO, called the preventive war, which was officially announced by the United States of America and adopted by all imperialist organs. So let us see - for the Greek people also to know - how this policy has escalated, and if what we say or take them out of our minds. I'm not going back to the old days, to what NATO was. NATO has always been the armed arm of imperialism. It never changed. He's done a hundred and twenty interventions all over the world, at all the lengths and backs of the planet. It's literally bred in blood from top to bottom. To go, then, to see what happened since 1992, that is, from the Rome Summit and the constant NATO sessions up to today. So the foundations from Rome in 1992 for adapting NATO to the new conditions created following the overthrow in the socialist countries and the dismantling of the Soviet Union were in place, with what aim? To ensure through fire and iron - and it proved - imperialist domination throughout the world. How did that happen? First the myth was replaced. The myth was the communist danger. Lie! Because NATO was created five years before the Warsaw Pact. But let's get over this. It was a mockery to the peoples, and they said it cynically. Warsaw Pact broke up and NATO instead of breaking up, what did it do? Build the new enemy, the new opponent. Who was it? They were asymmetrical threats, threat of stopping the flow of natural resources, terrorism and everything else. So, in the position of the communist threat, what did he actually put as an enemy? The peoples of the whole world who had to submit to imperialist barbarism. What else did he do? Instead of dismantling and getting short, he's made enlargement everywhere in the former socialist countries and he's made alliances - I don't have time to analyse them - at all the lengths and backs of the planet. And he didn't theoretically do it. In Afghanistan the Japanese also took part, circumventing the agreements made after World War II and the collapse of fascism. What else did he do? He widened the line of action. What are NATO's action limits today? All humanity. From the North Atlantic Pact, what happened? It became - what it was, but it flew now and the zipper - the world's people's spaceguard. What else did he do to serve them? It's changed clearly now. And it creates a structure of aggressive action in all Member States - but it also influences and pressures other countries - which is based on the modern conception of aggressive war, called the 'Rapid Intervention Forces'. Did he just proclaim that? Oh, no. He applied these in practice first. Where did he apply them? Yugoslavia. What did he do in Yugoslavia? Bombing, war, intervention, occupation, formation of a political system. The elections took place with the naval weapons. Let's imagine in Greece that the elections with the naval weapons will take place. What else did he do? He withdrew the elected President of the Republic of Bosnia. Mr. Poplassen took him down. He was elected and abolished. What else did he do? Protesters were hit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I have not spoken since this morning and I have asked you to give me time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u114	I'll announce the presence of a school and continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u115	When I speak, will you announce the presence? That's never happened before!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u116	It's happened before. It's got to be because he's leaving school. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u117	I give permission, I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u118	She's going to leave school because time is set.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u119	I give permission to say it, but have you cut off any speaker another time?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u120	Of course, it's happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u121	Yes, sir. I welcome the students and I ask them to wait, to know the truth, because no one dares to say it in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u122	Just a minute, then, and keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u123	Yeah. Time's zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-two students and students and two teachers from the Eleousia High School of Ioannina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And now, after we rested you, Mr. Palphie, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u125	So I keep going. And what else did he do? Hit peaceful demonstrations. The Natalis beat protesters in the former unified Yugoslavia who protested about NATO's intervention and the abolition of the elected President of the Republic of Bosnia. Is that a legend? But didn't they do the same in Kilkis? Was it not an exercise that you, too, denounced by the SYRIZA, that you are government today, to deal with protests and the crowd, which was predicted by an armed crowd to peaceful protesters? They've lifted everything online, we've seen it and you've denounced it. Did this change today? Question. Aren't you going to do such exercises? Are you going to forbid them? We say no, you're barely taking them any further, even on a base. At the same time, therefore, it is important, because many talk about the UN. Which UN, really? Is the UN involved after 1990, with the UN we met, with all the problems it had after World War II? NATO has attempted, with the UN review, to be regarded as a UN instrument, an aggressive imperialist weapon - we will say so, because it is a weapon - that will impose peace. Therefore, it changed what was guaranteed and as was guaranteed after World War II, certain principles of so-called international law, such as the principle of non-intervention in other countries, the principle that every people are responsible for giving solutions to their problems, which, of course, had been violated by imperialism. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] This is a concise development of NATO. Those who are in favour of NATO or may say that "we are against NATO, but are dispersed", in practice, like the current government - because the others were saying so more rawly that they are natotic - that we, Greece will be consistent in its international obligations, actually accept this entire doctrine of NATO and do it, not only in general, theoretically but also within the army itself. In this policy, therefore, Greece was also adapted as a member of NATO after 1992, and before, of course, as far as the structures of the Armed Forces are concerned, and of course, all the Governments and today have agreed on this. So what is the direction and where are we going? Because we want to talk about it, the Greek people should also know it, beyond the declarations and intentions of some or what some people think. In stages, therefore, a naval army is formed, where executives and units, and indeed the most remarkable in fact, are not subject to national control but to NATO control, and technically and ideologically and politically. The Greek Army is gradually transformed, as in other countries, into a Natali army on all sides. Will anyone say: does that have anything to do with what we're talking about? Of course it has something to do with it. So, let's see, are there Armed Forces, despite the problems that everyone has, two gears today? What does NATO say and you accept it, Minister, and you on the left, as you say? 40% of each country's Armed Forces will be rapid intervention units that will be subject to NATO. Are you applying it or not? You're applying it everywhere. What does NATO say? 8% of the Armed Forces must be at war. Are you applying it, yes or no? What are the consequences, however, for all this? The consequences are that where 40% and 8% are, the infrastructure, the resources used. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you have made a mistake in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u126	I'm sorry, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u127	Next year, we're in trouble here.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u128	No, from what the previous guy told me...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u129	I didn't even talk in the morning...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u130	From what Mr. Kremastinos informed me, you had in your prototype eight minutes, now it's a denology, you have four and we're four and a half. Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u131	Oh, good, all right, thanks. So I say, and I repeat that objectively, beyond the general problems that exist, there is an army of two speeds and don’t tell us anything about it now. Do you want examples? Is it the same situation in the naval units and units that are ready to go for the rest of the army? No, it is not the same in terms of structures, in terms of training, in terms of armaments, in terms of quality and numerical staff. Those units you manage all of them. That's how we drive a worse way. This will be the way to go if this policy is not radically overthrown. So let the rest of the information be said, let it go. You do exactly the same as the previous ones. You continue - where others stopped - to serve NATO's aggressive policy, and this is evidenced by the exercises that are taking place. There's an exercise that you haven't taken so far, why is it aggressive? There is nothing naval that you have not welcomed, and indeed the Minister of National Defence runs - not the Deputy, the Minister, but the Deputy who will shortly be running and the deputy who will be the first to come out - to serve all the naval plans. Have you said no to anyone for a year? Previous ones have said no? They never said no. And those who say that they did not participate in wars are answering you openly and frankly that where you did not participate - where Greece did not participate - is why they did not ask you to do so. Whatever you have been asked, you have it, you have it all, and the Greek people must know that. So the bill says it's cut, etc. I'll put on a few issues, 'cause the rest of Liana Canelle said it...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u132	But don't be too late, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u133	Just a minute and I'll be done. Sometimes - how can I say it - you know, we are expensive on pie and cheap on flour.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u134	Okay, Mr. Paphie, you know that you don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u135	All right, we'll bring five speakers next time to have more time, or we'll talk to all about protology and dentology and tritology and what we're entitled to. Give me some time, we're not the kind of people we're in trouble. In addition to the criteria for moleculosis, transfer, social criteria, the Minister's seal is basically maintained. One of this. Your Lordship is the Minister. Secondly, there is a huge issue - Liana said it in detail - concerning the unbearable economic bleeding, especially the soldiers who are the children of the people. What are you doing about it? You know those who have children, you know, relatives who are ghosts. They are forced to pay for tickets, clothing, footwear, with the pretext of the month. Even cuts in the pile are made. Exiters are not entitled to a portion, because they're going out. Some commanders, forced by reality, are licensed to save some money. Aren't these going to be handled? What do we say? Is it possible for the state not to pay for a decent living for Greek soldiers? We have made specific amendments to you - I do not want to eat each year - what do you say? I didn't hear any answers. Why don't you take them? Do you reject them? Why? What are they looking for? Is it socialist? Are they asking for a radical overthrow? You don't even accept them. Finally, I will tell you, from the Step forward, that you will accept one of the JRC's letters, that we have accepted an amendment. We've done a hundred, you haven't accepted one. That's how scared you are? What, don't blame you for anything? What's that thing? Secondly, it concerns a number of issues which we put forward in the first place. Objectively, apart from what he says or what various officers can do, and so on, the position of permanent officials towards the physical leadership of the military hierarchical pyramid is particularly vulnerable and those involved in the matter know it. In other words, the laws, regulations, orders of staff allow for arbitrariness. In fact, if there was no mobilisation of the soldiers themselves, protest and claim are forbidden under the legal framework. They are not only formally forbidden, they are essentially forbidden because there is fear - beyond the legal framework of the unfavourable transfer - of the negative reference of the superior playing a negative role in the development of each officer. So what do we say? Collective plea and expression. We proposed. Identify the Panhellenic Federation - I mean, by law, the Military, the WTO. Make legislation on this. You facilitate overall the personnel of the Armed Forces for collective action. What are you afraid of? It will be collective, all of which will be involved. Make it easier not only for them but also for soldiers. Instead of being isolated with his problem and running at the Psychological Support Office, which other things are facing, there are committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u136	Please, I can't give you any more time, Mr. Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u137	I shall conclude, Mr President. But take note of that. I'm not talking about you. I'm talking in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u138	What should I note? The four minutes that took place ten?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u139	Let the soldiers, armed men and women collectively make suggestions, make contact with local society, with culture, what we once said "the army with the people and not fascism". Some will remember them and move their heads. Trust young people, so they can join a collective action. What are you afraid of and do not do that? Finally, I shall refer to the amendment on the shipyards. What you complained about, that's what you do now. And because he hangs on to the world that he doesn't have money - that's the essence - that's why he retreats. It's not right. The decision was 60% -40%. 60% voted in favour of the agreement and 40% against it. 60% of the workers who voted in favour voted for it because the family is hungry and tells you at least something to get. That's not a solution. And if the missiles are over, what's going to happen? I'll just say it. It's two. How long will it last? Twenty-nine months? Parts of you giving Tavoularis. What's next? Is there any prospect?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u140	What do we give Tavoularis? I want you to tell me. What euros do we give?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u141	You don't give. Can I tell you stylishly?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u142	No, fat.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u143	No, stylish. I'm not saying you're giving. I'm saying you don't commit him for anything. And it's not a facial matter, it could be the master of this, it doesn't matter. We avoid naming faces, but here is a person who could be someone else, the gentleman. It doesn't matter. Do you help them objectively or not? You're helping them. But that's not the gentleman. The main - that is - is what you complained before, because in a similar arrangement you had voted 'in favour'. So we are voting against the principle for reasons I mentioned and we are voting against all these articles to which I have referred and which deal with a number of problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u144	Thank you. Please show respect in time for the rest of us. Don't follow...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u145	Mr President, we have not made a protagonist.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u146	I know. We're on the lead, but let's show respect. Whoever wants to be together and his dentures tell me. Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor from the Democratic Association as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u147	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with a very critical issue. We will see everything in relation to both the amendments and the bill. The refugee issue is a matter that these days is a rough bomb in relation to the foundations of the European Union. In our country in the next few years, we must be responsible at all levels. It has been mentioned by some Members and the answer has been discussed with regard to the statements and Mr Mouszala, who, too, has improved the situation in relation to the previous eight months, but things are very difficult. At the meeting we had on 2 November with Mr Muzala, we pointed out that it would be very difficult to complete the five hot spots in our country on the date that we had to complete. So we are now coming in front of these difficult circumstances because there will be an assessment on February 17-18. A few days ago I was in Chios, where really local authorities and local society are doing an excellent job for the refugee. But we see that from the central government one puts responsibility on the other for delays and oligopoly. Of course, and the European Union stands below these moments and several countries raise issues in relation to the Schengen Treaty. We must stress here that what Europe needs is more Schengen and not less Schengen. In this context, however, we must be careful when we make commitments. I am talking about the government committed at that informal summit. We have said that these commitments cannot be implemented easily and that they must be very careful. Because our country has made commitments for the next period - which relate to the completion of the hot spots - which are very difficult. Now, then, everything possible must be done to complete it. The Minister for Migration Policy also said that he is not seeing any of the ministers. He referred to the Minister of National Defence, the Minister of the Ministry to whom we have the bill today. And we need an answer. He even said he's getting into a bargaining process. He's asking for something and he wants something more every time. And, as he said, some mayors do so, to say exactly that statement. What's going on here? This whole government must work quickly and effectively, because it is not a matter of simpleness and the Democratic Alliance will not be accepted at the moment - and I tell you this - any risk of the country's staying in Schengen. One of the prisoners. This is very important, and it concerns this ministry, the Ministry of National Defence. As some time ago we had a debate on the amendment, I will start by saying some things about the Elefsina shipyard amendment. Mr Loverdos, the special speaker of the Democratic co-existence today, mentioned all the amendments in detail. Of course, I will refer to this particular issue in Elefsina's shipyards. So it makes no sense to speak about each amendment separately. There's been an effort. We are in communication and this is indeed in your honor. We were in communication so that we could find a solution to this matter. You have tabled an amendment, which we will say from the outset that we must try to give a solution. It is good that there is a forward distribution of wages. Two monthly fees are expected to be paid within 10 days. We said, and we asked you to be three months' pay. The third is planned to give it when fire number 6 is launched. And go to the topic of launching firefighting 6. There was a disagreement in the debate which took place between workers and experts over how many months it took to get this started. There was one opinion that said ten months and another view which said twenty-four months. Then we waited to see in the amendment what was finally decided. Looks like you're throwing the ball down the platform, because for the missile 7 you've been saying for sixteen months, while for 6 you're not talking about anything. Was there a disagreement? Didn't it end up somewhere? Let us know about this. Because it's related to the obligations. Let us say that it is also necessary for this fact, because there must be a solution. We have been telling you from the outset that we will be positive in this process. But I want to tell you what you were saying as a Qualified Opposition in December 2014. Because I heard it before it opened a debate on this subject. So Mr Dritsa said, then, in the House that he would vote 'at present' in a similar amendment, and that the only reason why he did not vote 'in against' is for workers to be paid. We will not do that, we say we will support it. But was that or is that a attitude that you're suggesting to us now? Let me go on a little bit about what Mr. Dritsa said - not what we're talking about. “The only reason to do this today,” he said then, in December 2014, “is indirectly possible and since Mr. Tavoularis, a personal and political friend of Mr. Samaras, will accept to pay the employees”. These are very serious issues. The House cannot at this moment seriously discuss such an important issue, so we are asking for all these issues which are unresolved and we are saying 'at present' just to pay the workers. You were talking about it. SYRIZA said it, not before, a year ago. If those apply, you should not bring this amendment. If they do not apply, you have brought it and we are discussing it today. We say this: there must be a solution. And this solution, which was agreed in the tripartite, will be supported and we will be positive about the amendment that you have tabled. But an answer is needed for all of this, what really happens. There can't be any more happening a year ago and more happening now. Let me go a little further than the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to make our country's defence capable of responding successfully to the current challenges and needs, we first need an absolute awareness of the problems, a review of the structure and legal framework for the operation of the Armed Forces and then an overall planning strategy for the national defence that involves areas at all levels. The draft law we are debating today, however, does not, in our view, mean that, in general terms or as the government itself had committed itself, these rapid steps in this direction. There is no overall design for the Armed Forces and its staff. The most characteristic indication of this is the first part of the bill, which includes arrangements concerning the transfer of armaments, fragmentary arrangements and sometimes conflicting ones. It is not, Minister, the revolution of self-evident. It's not! The changes have not been made in here. It takes the revolution of self-evident, you are right in this, in our country in many areas of politics. It is not, because many self-evident things, self-evident arrangements are not included. There are gaps, while many details exist, which will create ambiguity in their implementation. The other two parties - because I am talking about the first part now - are indeed better in legal form and concern the second part the care and the third part the training of the personnel of the Armed Forces. In order to be clearer, however, the first part of the bill is made up of seven articles, it establishes a system for positioning and transferring soldiers, and it is clearly necessary, as is stated in the explanatory statement, to implement a standardised, usable, operating system. But let us not, and above all let us not grow deceitful. The application of the provisions of Part One may not lead to the necessary elimination of the customer's state and to transparency. Here we will be in the next few years, to see if anything has changed to what you want to change, what has been described by many Members of Parliament in relation to what is happening today in the matters of transfers. The Minister of National Defence will decide and implement the positions, transfers, secondments and disposals of the soldiers. It has been put by many colleagues and by the rapporteur for the Democratic Integration, the question of why this is not regulated by the lower tiles. The Minister should oversee and not decide and implement. I heard in your speech that you said that it removes the political pressure on the staff. So we're transferring the political pressure to the Minister, that's what you said. I would like to believe that all the necessary steps will be taken here so that these procedures can be transferred to the lowest levels immediately. Also, how do we close the door to opacity when we determine criteria in the transfer system, are we talking about covering services or operational needs as a primary service criterion? Given that this is by definition something that should not be considered as a criterion for the placement or movement of a soldier, its designation as such allows that criterion to be relied upon in order to overturn all the rest. In fact, everything is being disqualified and given absolute authority - as regards the management of soldiers - to the Minister of National Defence. Furthermore, the provision that the economic and social criteria are quantified in order of priority and that they are taken into account with the services for the award of specialty and the placements and transfers of the hosts creates reasonable questions. The specialisation is obviously linked to the armor's skills and operational requirements. Other factors, such as social and economic criteria, create ambiguities and fertile ground for arbitrariness. I think you understand very well here what can happen. In addition, the exemptions introduced by this bill depend on the wishes of the General Staff, so that the legislative initiative may be regarded as a pretext. In other words, since the importance of economic and social criteria has emerged before, and provision has been made for exemption from the Chief of Armed Forces due to serious problems - necessary regulation - 2%, which will also be excluded. So one wonders why one gives the possibility of circumventing the law and what reasons does the exception of that figure, two percent? Furthermore, the ambiguous formalities observed in certain articles of the particular part and the regressions associated with the powers to be transferred, undermine at the outset any, possibly correct, government intentions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] The provisions of Part One, in spite of the interventions concerning criteria, do not, therefore, remove the problem of the client state from the place of placement and movement of the hosts. That's why in these articles in Part One, we'll be negative. In Part 2 of the bill, there is indeed a genuine effort to take care of the personnel of the Armed Forces in the direction of not depreciating the institution of office, as the largest share of the young people in the country experiences it as a necessary evil, without any productivity. These provisions provide for the possibility of graduates of medicine to serve in vacant posts of physicians of remote and problematic areas... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you can stop the bell.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u148	Yeah, but do you have...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u149	I shall conclude, Mr President. I haven't used any protology or any. That's the first time I've ever talked.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u150	Mr. Comrade, I'm sorry for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u151	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u152	Look, as far as protology is concerned - it has become a bad start and there is no reason to continue it - it is not merged with secondary ones so that time can spread. It becomes the protology in her time, the MPs speak, and then you get the denology. Otherwise, our MPs will never speak or speak the night that no one will be in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u153	I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u154	So, I'll beg you, too...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u155	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u156	Firstly, to conclude and I would also ask the next speakers to limit themselves to the time of prototype, so that Members may also speak. Continue, please, for too little, to complete your thoughts just for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u157	I'll be done. The second and third part of the bill therefore has many positive elements and we will vote in favour of these articles. It attempts to settle the outstandingness of the civilians by eliminating the awkwardness of their act and deletion of administrative fines. We also want to stress this - and here we must note that many of the chronic issues of violations of the rights of conscience and of the principle of criminal law are left unresolved, but many of the years of violations of the rights of conscience and of the principle of criminal law cannot be persecuted twice or more. Here we could all - and that is why a great many colleagues have put it - to resolve this issue. Of course it is not about this bill, but it was an opportunity. And, of course, with regard to the reduced social service for conscientious objections, there should also be an incentive, since they serve in the services of border regions and small islands, which has been set up and which should be provided for. Part Three of the bill includes positive arrangements. I will not stay because they have been analysed by the previous ones. I will ask you a question with regard to the amendment, which you have tabled, by Mr Toska. Look, we could agree here that this amendment, in relation to the Chief of Greek Police, will be implemented next time. I think it's a reasonable thing to leave behind and every suspicion, if we say it will be applied next time. Also, as it is written, Minister, I would like to ask you this: If a Chief of Greek Police leaves in August - in August - and his two-year term ends and in February we have a crisis, will it be six months before it changes? Now it's been two months. Will it be six-seven months before the change takes place? This point needs to be corrected, because it can finally be fourteen - fifteen months with this regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u158	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. The Minister has asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u161	Just for a minute, clarifying, not to repeat the same mistake as regards political hypocrisy and politicism. On the issue of building the two torpedoes, and the refugee will speak at the end. I would just like to inform Mr. Theocharopoulos that it is another thing to set in motion and another thing to do. So, what we're talking about about torpedo 7, he's been talking for sixteen months about pulling. The completion of the whole project is twenty-nine months and it is clearly stated. We don't define, but as you understand logic says that 6 will be launched earlier than 7 - as logic says, not the numbers - just because 6 is in a phase and 7 is long before it reaches its stage 6.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Theocharis, a Parliamentary representative from Potami, has the floor. If you're kind enough to confine ourselves to protology in eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u163	Now, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u164	Not now, Mr President. It is not possible to remove the floor from Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u165	The Communist Party of Greece had twenty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u166	We must also give the floor to the Members. A restraint.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u167	I'll try as soon as I can talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u168	That's what I'm asking. A restraint to talk to the MPs as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the bill we are debating is, on the basis of the explanatory statement, to correct and regulate issues that have been dealt with so far either by internal orders of the General Staff or by ministerial decisions. However, since the good day since this morning seems to me to read the first article of the bill, on the transfer of soldiers: "The Minister of National Defence, following a recommendation from the responsible Department of the Armed Forces, decides and implements the placements, transfers, secondments and disposals of personnel". There is therefore a reasonable question here. Why is this responsibility with the Minister? Does the Minister know better than the military leadership the real military needs? Of course not. However, this bill introduces an old-fashioned practice, with the only obvious explanation of the maintenance by the SYRIZA Government of the customer management of the issue. At least until today, the rushphetti was not legislated. And even if the Minister makes the decision to transfer responsibilities, the issue is not being saved. The next Minister - who we do not know who it will be - can withdraw it and take responsibility again. In addition to the above, what are the exceptional cases, Mr Minister, concerning special placements and transfers and why are they not described in detail? Are the parties being concealed and not national interests behind this ambiguity? The general reference to the operational and service needs of the Armed Forces is a reasonable provision, but it allows these needs to be used as a pretext and tool for circumventing the law itself. Minister, we in Potami agree on the principle of institutionality to deal with the issue of transfers, with our reservations as we have made them. We also agree with the resolution of individual issues, such as the normalisation allowance for divorced parents, in order to meet the nutrition needs or the upgrading of staff schools. We also propose, as legislative improvement, that the provisions on some favourable treatment and young people who are also elected to local government should be included with the amendment. But we also come to the amendment that you have accepted, Mr Minister, today, essentially to strengthen the Elefsina shipyard, Mr Tavoularis, in order to complete the two Vosper torpedoes. Obviously, we are not against finally completing the construction of ships and surrendering to the Navy. But on what terms? But you are bringing us today with an amendment to the ratification of a convention, which has already been signed since 5 December. Another surprise amendment. Mr Theocharopoulos has already spoken about the issue - and you mentioned it - of the tradition in twenty-nine months of torpedoes. The timetable will not be observed. Only twenty-four months want CTs, which have not been ordered, although the Navy has ordered for too long to be ordered. Elefsinas Shipyards and Mr. Tavoularis, however, use them by not bringing the order as a means of extortion of the Hellenic Navy. And we are succumbing to this agreement here. It is not going to be delivered in twenty-nine months, when, from the moment on, the CT order is going to take twenty-four months. You told us that 90% of the price has already been paid. The amendment, however, refers to a further ECU 40 million aid. What exceeds the original budget, after the aid granted by Articles 3 and 4 of Law 4160/2013? Another amendment to this multipathic contract. Our initial calculations speak of at least 35 million Greek people who are lost, without taking into account the constant changes in the future of delivery time and the extra labour costs. What assurances, Minister, do we not throw the taxpayers' money - which do not exist - into a 'black hole'? Why are there no liability on the shipyards for the delays? Why are no fines charged to the shipyards, when the Navy pays or restores itself the problems of the torpedo 'RITSOS' torpedo while it is on a guarantee delivered by the shipyards and you do not charge the fines to be charged? Instead, you give another 40 million. Why does the Navy undertake to cover the payroll and the insurance contributions of all workers and not just those who work in the torpedoes? What for? Shipyards must pay workers who work on other issues. Why in this contract are you hiding ‘under the carpet’ and these payrolls? Why does the Navy not undertake the construction as a whole and only has supervision when there was such a condition in the contract and could it take it? So we trust an insolent businessman so much? Finally, you deceive yourself if you think the ship repair will be saved with the Navy's money. If that were even it, we could swallow it all and say we're going to build an industry. Oh, no. We're throwing in the Caesar! Neither industrial policy is called this, nor - sadly - defence policy. On the other hand, several provisions of the bill, as I have already said, are unclear and clipboarded. There are provisions which do not guarantee legality, but which are subject to the discretion of the holder of the power, to apply them as appropriate. In short, it is a bill that corrects some of the bad texts of the past but leaves many "windows" of rushphetological practice. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot say a few words about Schengen and the possibility of getting out of it. Mr. Burnedo lied to us the other day that they are ready for all five hot spots. He lied here to the Greek people from the Step of the Parliament - so much he respects him - while only that of Lesvos is ready. Hot spots are not ready on the four other islands. The next day the College of Commissioners came to disprove it. Of course, it has been a long time since the Prime Minister told us: ‘Hey, what if they throw us out of Schengen? What are we gonna lose? Well, some of the advantages of cooperation between police officers, the free movement of services, capital, citizens. Well, it's nothing. Unfortunately, we need to be very careful and there is a need for national understanding. Tomorrow our leader, Mr. Theodorakis, will go to the President of the Republic, in an attempt to testify to the Potami's proposals for national consultation on this matter. I will close in a few words on the subject of the day. The Minister was looking today for the farmers in Thessaloniki - they are hiding from a village to a village by the Minister for Rural Development - for insurance. After what we heard in the previous day's debate, which raised this issue, which is very important and has revolted the country, one thing was reminded of me by the speeches of the co-government. I will mention a phrase by the Minis Koutsogiorgas, who I did not like when I first listened to her when I was a child, and that's why she impressed me in mind. I'm sorry to say it, but unfortunately it fits. You are not entitled to speak of the insurance policy, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because you are lying, with the thirteenth pension that you would give to us in December, and now you are cutting off pensions. You don't even have the right to talk, because you don't even know that pension is not redistributive but distributed. Redistribution means "the rich pays the poor" and that's only taxation. In insurance, we have a distribution. The employee pays the pensioner and the poorer of 700 euros, pays the richest pensioner of 3000 euros. This is distribution, not redistribution. Two ministers and the Prime Minister yesterday did not know that difference. So clipboard. You are not entitled to speak, because you are so handsome and sloppy, that you have equated the contributions of employees and freelance professionals not as sums, that is, the euros that are cut into the pocket but as percentages. So 20% on one - you said - 20% on the other. This is wrong and I will prove it by one example. If we had 100% employee contributions, it means 1000 euros and 1000 euros in IKA. If we put 100% on the free pro, 2000 thousand, does it work? We're taking everything away from him. Fifty percent is the equivalent. Another percentage of the employee, other than the free worker to be right. The result is that 20% for the main pension and 6.75% for health, the equivalent is 23%. Mathematics 1 of high school, which we're doing on the leg. And with this plan here, you tell us you're going and negotiating. You're making it on your knees! I'm giving you an article from the economist Mr. Militaryoulou explaining it. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Katrugalos told us the other day that you do not give the bill so that you do not spoil the negotiation. In the negotiations, however, they have kept the negotiating position and the'red lines' secret. You make them fun and public and keep my costly, which doesn't do anything. You've already ruined the negotiation. So here's your lie. You don't have the right to talk, because you don't even know what the problem with insurance is. It's that there's no trust. Why? Because people don't want a distribution system. Sweden, for example, which the Prime Minister told us about a model, no longer has it, not even Sweden. People want their money to catch a place. You say, forget your money, that's what goes to retired now. But since you pay, I guarantee you, the state, the pension. But the state went bankrupt. He went bankrupt by the recruitment of your relatives, went bankrupt by the media meetings, which you also continue. By the way, I read that the owner of a bankrupt media manager with half a billion times a year went from the back door to Maximus to discuss. Is it true? Let the government tell us. If so, what did he say? For new licenses and new phases? Did he get her permission? Only a mixed system can guarantee pensions as in Sweden. Picking up the cosmadic's money, investing and gaining the insured himself, 50% capitalizing, 50% distribution. You are not entitled to speak, because the day before yesterday Mr Katrugalos confessed to his problem. He said: the contributions are unfavourable. Contributions will bring down recession and unemployment. If I cut them, the pensions will be reduced, and that's what pensioners can't afford. This is the definition of a non-viable system.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u170	Mr. Theochari,...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u171	I'll be out in ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u172	But, Mr. Theochari, you're finishing, but firstly, you're misusing time and secondly, you're going to another bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u173	Ten seconds. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u174	No, it's not like that. I'm sorry, it's not like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u175	I'm really finishing in ten seconds. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u176	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u177	Others spoke of other issues. I won't even make it to twelve seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u178	So long I have not interrupted you thinking that you will in a way be able to connect what you say to what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u179	Look where I am...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u180	But now you're going to another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u181	Five pages I talked about the subject of the debate and one...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u182	You talked about the farm. Now you're going to insurance. What else do you want? And you've exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u183	Respect our time. The insurance bill will be here, you'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u184	Will you talk to us for ever?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u185	Mr President, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u186	Please. Just finish your thoughts, nothing more, just one phrase!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u187	This is therefore the definition of a non-viable system. Unsustainable, unsustainable contributions guarantee hunger pensions. This is called unsustainable. I conclude by saying that you are not entitled to speak, because you will not even dare bring the insurance, because neither the troika finds it with the "writings" nor the tractors. Here we are and we'll be waiting for you. Bring them in and vote for them!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Mr. Dendias has the floor. I would ask you in the same spirit, if you could show a restraint, to make it easier, it would help.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have no problem with restraint and withholding time, but I have to repeat what the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, said earlier, that there is a very great government responsibility here, with which the national Parliament is deprived of the opportunity to place Members. I see no reason why the current legislation should only be discussed at one meeting. Here we have come to a parliamentary work which is either urgent or urgent or an act of legislative content or an amendment. I heard a rapporteur this morning congratulating the Minister, because he is the first minister at least to bring a bill, even at a meeting. I'll start with the law now. I do not need to refer to the articles, because they were done with seriousness and success by the diligent rapporteur of Minority, Mr Giannis Kefaloyannis. I would just like to say, to start from something good, that there is a positive part in the legislation, not too big, of course, such as the attempt to resolve staff-care issues. I am referring to the provision of the normalisation allowance for divorcing soldiers. I note that this should also be extended to the Security Body. I would like to say that even the provisions for the subordinates are in a positive direction. But I say to you, Minister, that you must clarify in Article 12(3) the year in which the criminal is removed. Why don't you clarify it? I'm telling you that as a lawyer. Is it from the law vote? Is it from the ranking? Don't let the judge apply. It will find itself in an extremely difficult position and there will be alternative interpretations. I now come to the wider issues. That is the role of the parliamentary representative. Ladies and gentlemen, in all of us, we are not voting for this legislation at first. Why don't we vote for it? Because there are provisions that create major problems. I am referring first of all to the second paragraph of Article 1 and for which I asked the Minister to improve the wording. He didn't do it. He didn't do it badly. The Minister of National Defence decides and implements the positions. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the job of the Minister of National Defence. I've been a Minister of National Defence for sixty days. It's not the Minister of National Defence. The previous regime referred to the competence of the Minister. Of course, the Minister has the general responsibility but not the transfer. And in any case, if only the responsibility lies with the Minister, he is able to remove the word "may" from the office of staff and through the law to delegate this responsibility to the staff. To tell you the truth, we searched the relevant texts of European countries this morning. We found only one similar "by name of king", when the Armed Forces of a country are His or Her Majesty's. I come to Article 29(3) in the retroactive provision, in conjunction with Article 25. It makes us an algal impression. So alpine impression makes even the author of the explanatory statement to the law which, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are bringing here for a vote, which you will see that Article 29, the transitional provision, is not explained in the explanatory statement. You're not telling us anything about her. You ignore her as non-existent. In the provision of Article 25, you are simply telling us that the rating scale is being streamlined. Your permanent disagreement with excellence, the permanent drop in level downwards, your permanent attempt to flatter those who in the exams do not succeed, you call it a streamlining of the scale. We're not going that way somewhere. I foresee that all the promotion crises that you are going to make under Article 29(3) will fall into the Council of State and the administrative courts. In any case, the question which I am now politically calling as a representative of the Civilian Representation is to answer. Is this a single slip? An unfortunate moment of a government? Here the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, is worse. Unfortunately, it seems that the government is slowly lacking in popular acceptance and popular approval, so much so that solutions can be found which tend to be arbitrary. I say this very carefully and - if you wish - with sadness, because I was one of those who, at the beginning of the government's term of office, sincerely wished that government success, as with every government, even if we had lost the election. What is the government doing, ladies and gentlemen? What's going to happen? What's going on here? What do we have tomorrow? Tomorrow we have an attempt to control two independent authorities. This is the essential legislative task of tomorrow. That's what the government plans. This is what the government is preparing to legislate. We have a government. So, now that he is giving the Minister the transfers, today he is planning retrospective crises, today he is bringing an amendment in which he wants to change the Chief of Police, telling us that this is due to a lack of agreement over the years of regular crises. Tomorrow he plans to check two independent authorities. What is this government, ladies and gentlemen? Where's he finally taking it to the country? What does he expect of us? I heard Mr. Theocharopoulos before. Mr. Theocharopoulos, I had the luck of being in the minister's seat when Mr. Dritsas said what you said about Mr. Tavoularis. And then I said to Mr Dritsa 'if you say that again, I take the amendment back'. So he was forced and went to "the present". And those who have gone to 'the present' today are bringing us similar amendments while they have had a whole year to heal the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, the sad thing is that we are all dealing with together - because we all have a responsibility here to the place and society - with a very bad government. Do you want us to think the government would like? It's certain. But it is absolutely certain that this government cannot. Today there are no news, no press releases, and so if you wish, we can speak more freely, because it cannot be assumed that what we say here is for the sake of a projection. But if you go online, please take a look at the statements of your former Minister, Mr. Panoussi. Mr. Panoussis does not belong to the New Democracy, he does not belong to the opposition forces. Do you know how he characterizes the government as a refugee? ‘Presents and fewer’. I have not heard from the sixteen years of my service in the national Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this government's term I was trying in every way to explain to you, the government majority, but also to the government that its policy on immigration leads to a complete deadlock, that it would turn the country into a storeroom of souls and that it would give the opportunity to those who do not like Greece or those who have other priorities, to create a wall in Skopje and just leave us out. And for a year we have seen the government do nothing about it and now your Minister - your Minister - is calling you few, not you Members, but the government. Where are you going, ladies and gentlemen? Where's this government going? How is it possible for this government to do something? It is a government which, unfortunately, has no credibility. Do you remember the promises you made to the officers of the Armed Forces? Do you remember the grant of the frontier allowance, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Independent Greeks? Do you remember SYRIZA's promises of immediate compensation for the military? The reality is, after a year, the only small restoration that took place following a judicial decision, - so as not to delight you - took place in my day, over the Samara Government, when we had begun to give back the retrospectives in 2012. For one year you haven't even given 1 euro! Ladies and gentlemen, you can help if you want the Armed Forces with little things but very important to them. For example, by paying the financial and professional aid to eighteen, so that they can fund their children's studies, by integrating their individual card into the recognised documents from the European Union or even the document scheduled at the Ministry of Defence - I hope that there will still be planning - the creation of kindergartens where they need them. Small things with insignificant costs and with the possibility of improving the standard of life of people who serve the country by wearing the native. But I would urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to finish, in order not to abuse time, Mr President, even if the government's responsibility is that Members do not have the necessary time to express their important thoughts in the national Parliament - and I am glad to tell you that the government has taken the floor. And I'm telling you, if you want to experience, that when this catastrophe starts, it doesn't end. This catapult is speeding up, and precisely in trying to restrain the government is currently leading to arbitrary solutions. If something you can do for your place and for your haughtiness - why look now, a government future you have - I say to you: avoid at least the arbitrariness, avoid those who will condemn your presence for this little time at the wheel of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the place of organization and operation of the House, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the Eleousas Ioannina High School (2nd Department). The House welcomes you! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Vaki, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, last year a ghost was deceiving over this Chamber, the ghost of Grexit. Grexit didn't do any good. This year we have from all the opposition the ghost of Schengen. In this Chamber today, on the occasion of the bill we are discussing, the threat to Schengen and to exit has been recovered again. Greece was fighting and fighting in international agreements, European treaties and international law. Who are you colleagues with? With those circles they want to target the country? We won't spread to it! And you know that according to the rules of international law, non-save at sea is equivalent to murder. We will continue to make a democratic and human policy in the refugee and our flaw! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Unless you want us to buy refugees' fortunes in order to obtain the costs, as the Europeans in the rich north do, the 'populated, democracies'. Because - be careful - yesterday we had an anniversary. We honored the Holocaust's memory. And from real estates and valuables and from categorisations of people to normal, first and second grades, to concentration camps, the road is too small. Let a second black 21st century barbarism page be rewritten. We won't consent to that! And we will continue to manage the issue in the way we manage and save, not sink boats and stop helping these people. So stop this opposition. You're not oppositioning the government. Opposition to society and the concept of human rights are taking place! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] With regard to the bill, you will allow me to place myself in general. Besides, this is the first time I've been taking the floor today. I would like to speak in general, in particular, about the reasoning, the philosophy - if you like - of this bill. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that I cannot judge the military service in Greece myself. For the military service in Greece I am aware of the oral testimony of my friends, of them, from the old column of "ELLEROTYPIA" entitled "Fantare where you are going?", which gave flesh and bones to the book of Christophoros Kasdagli "I am free and mad", by the well-known fanatical hesitations that Lucian Celidoni melted, among other things. The performances and images run the time unchanged. The loneliness of unintentional hostility, the anxiety of the recruit, the time lost, but no one is nostalgic and seeks, a necessary evil of military service, which is equivalent to dead time and degree of life for many. The transition from "citizen" to "politi" is a subtle anagrammation of the language, but unfortunately, it sometimes becomes a cross-cutting in the normality of life, creativity, and sometimes in professional and academic careers. Renowned words and phrases of military self-interest, such as "the pit", "the young", "the old" and so on, may have given birth to jokes and film comedys, but sometimes became the stones that covered the old person of a client state, party and propaganda, that is, a state where the privilege of access to politician, the MP, and not the universal application of the law. Behind charming and eloquent narratives of military daily life, the cruelty of dilemmas that govern the Greek Army hides, dominated by this: To survive or you will be wronged or you will be wronged! Dependence, however, on a happy transition from access to political and governmental mortals proves that the Army bears indelibly the passions of the state. The two-year-old demands, a public position and a good transition to the Army, created client lists of political offices and judged parliamentarian elections. The fundamental stones of the draft law to be passed entitled "Configure the issues of transfer of arms, personnel care and other provisions" are the principles of equality and transparency, i.e. the oxygen of democracy. This is because, in the first part of this draft law, a fair system of transfers by the hosts, which is based on transparency and is based on a moleculation system, which takes into account not only the grammar knowledge, professional experience, qualifications and special skills but also social criteria, such as loss of relative first degrees, diseases with a disability rate of 67% of the members of the armed family, the existence of a child, a three-tier or multitude family, and the exception from the process of transferring socially vulnerable groups reflects a policy aimed at alleviating citizens who live within the limits and not even ensure basic means of living. It shall, however, take into account objective criteria, which shall be determined by factors affecting the living conditions of the citizens and categorising the units according to the degree of difficulty, and which for the first time give the soldier the opportunity to state the place of preference. The pillar of the second part of the bill is the removal of the dividing section between creative, professional, educational time on the one hand and military time on the other. The purpose is that the term of office should not be equalised to dead time and become creative. Do not cut off the soldier from his professional activity. This is done through the articles that enable armed doctors who serve their duties, to serve in barren, indifferent, island regions, in rural hospitals, health centres, insular hospitals etc. and to graduates in legal schools to fulfil the exercise time laid down for obtaining a licence for a profession in the legal offices of military advisers. These provisions are not only dictated by the desire to change the nature of the term 'dead', a temporary but not violent end to the treatment of cognitive objects and the exercise of a profession but at the same time relieves them. It relieves remote remote remote regions that are currently suffering from a lack of doctors and heals the trauma of immigration of new doctors abroad. To the attendants, now, academic Jerusalem, Greek stateless abroad was almost always the equivalent of a doctoral candidate or a career professional whose thread would be violently interrupted by the obligation on the mother country. Finally, in the figure of the subordinate, who pays a heavy price for a good CV, there was another blow to the prominence of the Armed Forces, that of the conscientious opposition. This bill provides for both unreserved and conscientious provisions that are more favourable to society, reconciliation to these two figures and, if you like, a democratic nation, which takes into account the role played by conscience, a very important category in western philosophical tradition, in demonstrating political disobedience. From Thorus, who refuses to pay the capital tax to the African, Rosa Parks, who in 1955 refused to rise from her position on the bus and from conscientious objections to the student movement against the war in Vietnam, the concept of civil disobedience was also an unresolved puzzle in the public debate between political philosophers, the Supreme Court in America and politicians. There are, in fact, liberal political philosophers, such as Rals and Dorkin, but also the Supreme Court of America, who say that civil disobedience is not only permitted but is also a condition of existence, an element that enriches a democratic, ruled state. In fact, it is an undeniable condition of political disobedience that is also a rule of law worthy of obedience. In other words, opposition to conscience expresses non-violent and public dissent in a law, within the limits of the law or at the edges of his faith in the law, with the aim of changing a law on better law or government policy. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is relied upon by the principles of equality, transparency, dignity, social justice and is trying to contribute to the democratisation and modernisation of the Greek Armed Forces. It is intended that a brake should enter the client state and the Army as a privileged field of trade and interactivity. Of course, good Armed Forces in a bad, deep, customer state cannot function. They only work as an island or an oasis and even form an oxymobile. The bill, therefore, - together with another, which is an institutional division in public administration - is another step in democratisation and in the institutional areas that this government has attempted, another step in the wake of a series of legislation, such as - let me remind you - the performance of citizenship in immigrant children, the cohabitation pact, and the bill which, among other things, embroidered the penitentiary system. And finally, it is also a bill that respects the concept of human rights in practice, so that the host can also be a citizen and this transition is an invisible light bulb of the language or simply an anagrammation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Kokalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to vote on a bill which is indeed innovative. It regulates issues that had not been regulated. It concerns the transfer of soldiers, care for the staff, training of military personnel and many other issues which the rapporteur for the Independent Greeks Mr Katsikis addressed and specialised them. But you will allow me to make a few comments on the philosophy of the bill. The main cause of the unreliability of our political system was, of course, customer relations. It was the main reason why the old political system in our country went bankrupt. National defense was the classic field in which customer relations found great bloom. Unfortunately, there was no law to date, which regulates such issues as military personnel. As you well know, issues that are about the state and the citizens - because soldiers are citizens - are governed by law. That's what the Constitution says. What happened to this day? There were circular orders from the Chiefs of Staff. Two ministerial decisions - one, if I remember well in 1994 and the other in 1998 - had no basis for an authorised provision of the law. Oper means they weren't covered by the legislation. Let's just say, all previous leaderships managed basic relations between Greek citizens, without any law. Mr. Theocharis said so. Of course, he is now away from the Chamber. At least, he says, the rushphetti wasn't legislated. I am surprised to hear Mr. Neddy say that the government is slipping into arbitraryness. Let the Greek people hear it well. So many years of Greek civil relations with the state were not governed by law! Today this government came, filed a bill and calls for the first law to be passed and slipped into arbitraryness? So, there's no law that regulates the issues of armies, the issues of the Armed Forces? That's what New Democracy tells us. Because I find a manifest disgrace from the New Democracy that says "on the one hand, yes, we do not vote for the bill, because there are specific provisions" and other parties I hear that they vote for it, such as the Potami but they say "we do not vote for the insurance". No relationship. It is obvious that their discomfort in the government's initiative is at last the issue of the Armed Forces, the soldiers, to adopt a law. And we're talking about a lot of hypocrisy, about swinging our fingers and saying that we slip into hypocrisy when we testify and ask for the approval of the Greek Parliament for a law. Do you understand, ladies and gentlemen, that so many years of basic civil relations have moved to illegality? We are currently being blamed for the Qualified Opposition that we are asking for the adoption of a law. He probably has some flaws. You can suggest some things. But all these years there was no law. What are you going to say to the world, we are not voting, because we want - as Mr Theocharis said - that rousphetti should not be legislated? Tell us. So you want there to be no law. If you want, then the Greek people will judge you. I come to Mr Theocharis as well. Mr. Theocharis indeed has a special bond with the President of the Independent Greeks and shows it. Rather, because the River dried up and looks to go elsewhere or put a barrier, it is constantly directed with lies and slandering to the President of the Independent Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, at last, in this country and in this Chamber we must be serious. We must finally admit that a law is good. First law. Mr. Dendia, you - rhetoric is the question, am I not addressing you to answer me - when you were Minister, did you want there to be no law? How did you transfer it? No law? And now you blame us for slipping into arbitraryness?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u194	Thank God you don't want an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u195	It's unbelievable! I would understand you saying, 'You bring a law, I agree with these articles, I disagree with the rest', but the fact that a bill regulating armies is coming first to recognize it. And do not refer to tomorrow's provision, because it shows weakness, that is to say, the fact that we are talking here today about the transfer of soldiers, about the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence, and you are talking about tomorrow. If you want, we'll talk about next week. To change the Rules of Procedure, to tell everyone what they want, like Mr. Theocharis. He did not have what to say, 'yes, I agree, but I do not vote for the insurance, I disagree with the refugee and the farm, with anything else'. Let's be serious, finally! As I mentioned, they were specialized by Mr Katsikis. I think that in this country now we should in practice... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, I never speak with a written speech. We must act, that the old must be permanently left in yesterday, and that will only be done by legislation that promotes democracy and transparency. It would be a responsible national attitude from the parties, and especially from the opposition officer to say that, yes, we support it. We disagree on some articles, but at least we support them. But what is the conclusion? That the New Democracy does not want there to be a law governing civil relations, such as soldiers with the state. In view of all this, I urge you to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u196	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr. Kokalis. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u197	Mr President, I should like to make it clear to the House that the AGROTICA report in Thessaloniki will not be inaugurated by Mr Apostolos, because they besieged the ‘Belidium’ Foundation of about thirty thousand rebellious Greek farmers who received the Left's answer with chemical and wood from MMs. The farmers protested - it is estimated, as I said before, that it was thirty thousand, a grand gathering, a great protest - and they sent a strong signal to the government about the insurance policy. In fact, in the photos online, we saw them made even scarecrows saying "we will not become a scarecrow on our land". It was touching when we saw our brothers, Greek farmers, tested farmers, singing the national anthem in a race, which, I would say, is a hundred and sixteen years later. A real rural uprising, a struggle of national and social, against modern Kojabashis, who are no different from the liberals of the right and lead these people to poverty and destruction. Congratulations to the Greek farmers! I hope and urge other social classes to rebel. And to say that farmers are the backbone of our nation. Farmers, workers, youth, soldiers are the pioneers of the national games and Golden Dawn is on their side. I should like to say at this point, because I have been following Mr Dendia's position a moment ago, that Mr Denkias has a great deal of courage in this Chamber to tell us about refugees, to accuse the government of what he has spoken of from the Step forward, to make self-criticism. Wasn't it not Mr. Dendias who played theatre with Antonis Samaras in Omonia, drinking the coffee known, having made pogroms the police previously clean Omonia from smugglers and immigrants in order to play the theatre on the right and to reassure the people? The next day, Omonia was filled with illegal immigrants again. Let me remind Mr. Dendia, who went to Calogresa, to the tolls, to the automobile industry - how we talk - and he said, "What nice you're here with the Pakistani people. Do you want to stay?’ And the poor Pakistani said, "No, I want to leave." And they had them veiled. And he says "You're nice, with light, water, telephone and air condition." Mr. Dendias was welcomed that illegal immigrants are having a good time and now, so that the New Democracy can get a few lollipops missing, now that the New Democracy is falling apart, they're turning it into refugee. You are co-responsible, gentlemen of the New Democracy, for the situation that currently exists in the country. You're not fooling people. You can't make fun of the world! Self-impress with these positions expressed by Mr. Dendias. Minister, I would also like to ask you - and I am glad that you have taken the place in the parliamentary seats - and Mr Kammenos, who will probably see it in a closed circuit - I do not know whether his obligations and his meetings with the Israeli officials allow him to monitor parliamentary control and parliamentary procedures - if the Armed Forces have completed their mission. I mean, the staff are feeding right? Housing? Is there cleanliness? Because I read on the website of the General Staff of National Defence a text entitled "Support of the Armed Forces in managing problems of refugee flows". It says that they have been released until January 11, 2016 for a total of two thousand skates, space-forming machines, hot spots, fifty two houses, a hundred ten houses, binny armours, etc. What's going on? Is this the mission of the Greek Armed Forces? I also told you in committee, Minister, that there was a military order from the Armed Forces, which stipulates that the officers who are being transferred to assist NGOs have two years' leave, that assistance to NGOs is considered to be an extra qualification. You told me that you did not know the matter and you will see it. It is an opportunity, after you will take the floor - I think at the end - to tell us what happened with this scandalous case of the transfers of Greek "pigs" officers. Because as we have the tracks to the soldiers that Elias Cassidy, my competitor, said in the morning that he mentioned the word "pig" - not to hide it, you have experience, you were a State Secretary of Defence - we have the "pigs" to the officers. You have at the Staff - thank God - a lot of officers who are "proofs". And I'm not talking about the officers doing the right job. I am thinking of the officers who deal with the military offices of the Ministers and State Secretarys, who deal with ruffles and transfers. What are you doing today? Because Mr. Annell said about the law. He was caught by the complaint about the law. So, what are you doing today? You lawfully legalize ruffles. He is responsible for the execution of these ruffles by the letter of the law, the Minister and his colleagues at the Ministry of National Defence. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Why is there no military regulation? It says "How were the transfers so far?" They were born with the military rule. The army should set the army. Finally, outside parties from the Army! Other is the mission of the Greek Armed Forces. We, Minister, do not want the Army to carry out debts and be "Philippineza", literally, illegal immigrants, immigrants, paradigms, refugees, as you say. Because we had a recent post at the FINACIAL TIMES on the installation of three hundred and four hundred thousand refugees in Athens. I am thinking and saying now, the building facilities will be given to the various companies "NAKOR" etc., or it will, as the Greek Army does in Samos, do. Make that clear, too. I close, Mr President, and say that we honor the Armed Forces as Golden Dawn, as a Greek nationalist movement. We honor, days that are, the fallen in Imia, this tragic date and historic moment, in 1996, the three fallen officers of our Navy. We are the only party that has been honoring the fallen of the Imperials for twenty years with an established gathering every end of January, as this year will take place in Imion Square outside the Armed Forces' Club. We will be united there as strong as "Immortals!" to the heroic fall, as well as to bruise "Immortal!" the fallen of the nationalist movement, Manolis Capelonis and George Fountoulis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. We are finally entering the list of speakers. There are few speakers, and if they want to, they can cut time. I can't do anything. Parliament's representatives have already been overtaken by a lot of time. Mrs. Alonitou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the bill: 'Consolidating the issues of the transfer of soldiers, the care of staff and other provisions', a bill by the Ministry of Defence, and if I'm not all mistaken here, we have agreed that the issues of the Ministry of Defence are also national issues. It would therefore be interesting to see many Members present on these national issues. In looking at the list, however, I see who the Members of Parliament are. There are many government MPs, very few of them from the Civic Opposition and almost none of the other parties. And I say, why should I? It is the inability to justify, ladies and gentlemen, how you will vote against a bill that - all right, you do not want to say that it is an incision, although I think that under the existing conditions it is a cut-off - it is for the first time putting an order on the transfer of soldiers in terms of social justice, transparency and equality. In all of this, he's putting order. So, what are you guys doing? Why are you resisting this? I'll tell you that I've told you many times from this step here. The government will move forward with or without you. We shall proceed by legislating in terms of justice, equitableness and transparency, removing all injustices where we can. These are injustices that have created your client state for so many years, afflicting Greek society so much and much. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill seeks to create an objective and worthwhile system in the transfer of judges to the Armed Forces so that injustices are not done and all confiscated equally. It's just things that they just want a little good mood so the soldiers and their families don't get wrong. Of course, this system takes into account the needs of the Army, since the end result must ensure valuable and effective Armed Forces. Thus, they make the military's service and operational criteria. They follow the economic and social criteria of the militant, while counting negative disciplinary misconduct. This is a democratic system that treats the deceased as a military citizen and not as a hunger. In the same spirit of good mood, military graduates of medicine are exploited to meet the needs of the population in remote areas, by recognizing this time for the fulfilment of the medical service obligation. It is also recognised to armed lawmakers as the exercise time, the time during which they perform their respective duties in the Army and recognized any other real service in the Army for the future, professional development of the militant. In other words, the attempt is being made not to be a dead time in the lower-professional course of the cartel. The bill also attempts to address problems of adapting military life to the new institution of the Armed Forces Support Offices referred to in Article 20. These offices provide a specialised service and are staffed with specialised staff. They cover a need for which it would not be reasonable to create structures in each unit, mainly intended to support the first phase of the ranking of soldiers, where most problems will reasonably arise. From there on, they are a mechanism for collecting and evaluating complaints of illegal acts, i.e. ensuring that legality is respected. This is an essential measure nowadays, as the evolution of Greek society, like all developed Western societies, does not prepare young people for the peculiarities of military life. It seems that what we are gaining in technological skill is lost in hardship, so this is a necessary adaptation. In order to benefit the greatest from technological skill, the bill facilitates, as far as possible, further training of the permanent military until a doctorate is drafted on selected subjects of study related to the performance of their military work. This is the way of the future in all places and in the Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to pay particular attention to the issue of the regulation of military obligations, as laid down in Article 12. This article is obedient to those who have been unintentional in the past, if they have settled or settled their military obligations in any legal way over a certain period of time. Unfortunately, however, as Article 12 is formulated, it does not deal with many cases of people who, after paying a thousand fines as unscrupulous and thinking that they were buying their term of office, have to pay back the same bureaucratic, recurring impotence. However, these problems must be solved at one time, not swept away. And quite rightly, Mr Minister, you have accepted this amendment which we tabled, which defines exclusively and only restrictively when non-existence is interrupted and abolished as a result of which inadmissibility is interrupted. This does not lead the irresponsible to repeated interruptions in his inability and repeated administrative cash fines. That is right, therefore, the issue of unscrupulous people is dealt with without revenge as a matter of resolution and not as a source of increased public revenue. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this bill in many respects is a transitional situation in the defence of the country, in line with the international transition situation due to social and technological developments. Our main difference from other developed countries is that we are still in an economic crisis, so we need to do a lot, by a few means. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The bill, however, is entirely governed by the perception that the quality of human resources is our key factor in the defence. With this basic philosophy, I think it is right and I am voting in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u200	Thank you, Ms. Helen Aylonitou, SYRIZA Member. Mr. Antonios Syrians from SYRIZA also has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with a reference, I shall continue with a reference and conclude with one question, because a lot has been said and a lot has been heard in connection with many different issues. And even though I am not used to it, I will make an exception at least as far as tonight's debate is concerned. I, too - first was my colleague Mrs. Canelle, who turned her thoughts to the fallen of the Imbians, let me do the same - turning my thoughts to them as a very little drink in their memory. I'm on my way to admonishment. If we want to see the climate that prevailed and the genealogical causes, the climate that created this situation in the Army, a climate that was related to interests, interventions, not only political actors or parties, but even church actors, I would suggest to all of you that you take a look at a book entitled "Military Life in Greece". It refers to the first post-revolutionary years. Mario Vitti, who is a neo-Hellenic Italian professor who deals with our literature. The book relates to the description made by an anonymous Greek diaspora, who decides to come to serve in the Greek Army. His most amazing experience - from this book that refers to the rosés and all of it - is when going to the then Ministry of Military, found someplace on the second floor two rooms. One was a room where some soldiers played billiards and next to there was a room entitled "Unarmed Army Officers Office". To see, that is, how a logic has been made since then. Of course I do not claim that this is happening today. Things have improved very much And I come to this bill. One of his qualifications is that it creates the legislative framework for transfers by introducing criteria. There was a criticism in Article 1(2) on the matter of the institution, i.e. whether it was the Minister, if it could be the Heads of Staff, etc. The article must not be read on its own. There are the following articles. Whatever the institution is concerned, it obeys criteria which, according to Article 3, are economic criteria, are social criteria, are objective criteria. I'm telling you, I'm telling you. However, what we have to keep today is, that the necessary institutional framework is being created, which - after its implementation - no one prevents anyone, if there are mistakes or omissions, from correcting or improving it. It is important, however, that there is now a basis for this. What I referred to now - and I am speaking about the articles - relates to Articles 1 to 8. The second is that, of course - and we have said it repeatedly and no one is left behind - the Army has a specific role to play, which is to defend the country. However, it can also provide a social offer, while serving the young people who are actually cut off from the work they have. I believe that this is corrected and stimulated by the military's social offering with the articles concerning lawyers, doctors and who themselves benefit but also offer to society, but most of all without - and this is mentioned - the planning or structure of the military is being undermined. It is a good thing in the bill that he is intervening in sectors without creating issues. This was set here, in the presence of a complaint. However, it does not appear from the bill that it can create issues in the structure, hierarchy or planning of the Greek Army. That's a qualification. Finally, because there was a lot of talk about the Armitarian Support Office, that is what we believed and saw in helping them and without breaking the hierarchy or structure. At this point, I would like to refer to Article 20 itself where it says that, "In the General Staff of Branches, the Armed Forces Support Offices are recommended directly to the Chiefs". The last paragraph states: "the organization, staffing, the mode of operation, the specialisation, and other details are regulated with care of the Heads. The operation of the Support Offices does not alter, repeal or in any way affect the procedures for the promotion of petitions and complaints and their handling during the proceedings in the course of the proceedings.’ I live in these elements, which I believe are basic qualifications in the bill and on which criticism has been made and there have been strong objections. I will conclude by saying that two elements that emerged from the procedure and we need to appreciate them, in order to vote in favour of the bill, are as follows: Firstly, we have the majority positive opinion of the bodies, as we have seen in their hearing. Secondly, as you would have seen during the discussions, both in the committees and today, the initial negative or sceptical attitude that has been taken by many opposition parties, with dialogue and proposals, has succeeded in a positive move. I appreciate that and as an element that shows that the bill has a broad acceptance. Ladies and gentlemen, with reference to the amendment on the register, I would like to say that I too am voting in favour of it, because I believe it solves many problems. Ladies and gentlemen, many have been heard in this Chamber and other issues have been raised which are not the time to reply. However, a very serious question arises, to which some time has to be answered. Do you think it is right to prevent the application of laws, adopted by the majority of the House, either by an abusive invoking rights or by analyzing objections, and to choose, instead of critical consensus or creative understanding, a conflicting logic which does not lead anywhere and harms things? It is a very serious question, which has to be answered, because it is very well known that it is the majority that decides the positions, that is the law of the government in question. So, do you think that's a legitimate thing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr. Antonis Syrigos, MP of SYRIZA. Evangelia Vagonakis also has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u203	I'll be in another look than my previous colleague. First of all, I wanted to protest although we are a few now, as most of the parliamentary representatives are gone. We started at 18:00, and the MPs started talking at 21:30.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u204	It's all right again.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u205	If you consider this right, I do not think it is right, and I do not think it is necessary to do so quickly, because you have promised, Mr President, that this should be the case - a change in the Rules of Procedure of this House. I'm starting now in relation to the bill. The main aim of this bill is that, until now at least, it imagined impossible, although self-evident, but in Greece nothing is self-evident. And, of course, I am talking about the thorny issue of transmissions, which has remained thorny for decades, because neither the intention nor the subsequent political will to change something in the rosphetological logic, which has rightly left windows open to selective services, services which, badly lies, have qualified to a great extent the MPs and party leaders of former bipartisanism, sharing the "pitie" and systematically serving the children of their electoral clients. This disgusting system has worked for almost fifty years, while it has remained sealed and away from the lights of publicity, even though it was a common secret that if you have appropriate acquaintances, everything is done. In fact, according to data from the years of crisis that saw the light of publicity, about half the soldiers through ESRB serve with ruffet. In particular in the last five years, the'social demands' - so called the rumphets - have increased dramatically because of the economic crisis. In essence, that is, the Army was used by New Democracy and PASOK in some way, as a compensation for the hard economic measures imposed. I am particularly concerned about this, as I appreciate that the government's legislative initiative demonstrates in the most emphatic way the attitude but also its desire to collide with a good and reasonable and obsessed past. It is now clear that, as a government, we have not been enough to manage nor much more the exploitation of a well-established system of citizens' and politicians' conciliation but instead, we are calling for the law to regulate this issue for the first time. This is another basic qualitative difference at the level of governance of the present with the oldest governments. So I invite you all to warmly welcome this legislative effort and stop putting a stop to the self-evident ones, perhaps looking forward to new, future services. So let the country move forward, even if they want to stay back. From there on, in other parts of the bill, I would like to emphasise the exceptionally important regulation of the landscape for the subordinates, including the objections of conscience. The Ministry of National Defence appears to have open antennas and takes serious account of the unfavourable economic situation and the problems of youth. Moreover, the new data show a dramatic increase in the number of unscrupulous ones due to an economic crisis, since too many young people have emigrated abroad and in search of work by postponing, while others, being here a job and fearing that they will not lose it, have avoided the campaign to work. Often, however, deferral has expired, resulting in exterior fines, which have also reached six thousand euros. I would remind you, in fact, that a ministerial decision was implemented after 2011, which provided for the dispatch of fines directly to the tax, irrespective of the evolution of criminal prosecution. This bill, however, also for those who are still fulfilling or will be ranked for the performance of their term of office by 31 December 2016, eliminates the criminal and administrative consequences and the administrative fines imposed and confirmed, while in the case of partial repayment the remaining amount is deleted. Finally, an extremely positive assessment should be made of the staffing capacity of the bill to further strengthen scientific training. In an increasingly changing and demanding era, arrangements such as allowing permanent military personnel to be licensed to participate in undergraduate or postgraduate programs of the HEIs, as long as the training is aimed at scientific training and the object is linked to its duties, are very important. Equally important is the qualification of the graduates of the permanent staff at the high school graduates and the conversion of school in these schools from two years to three years, as well as the provision of the students of the Military School of Officials to attend training courses at the Aristotle University. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is a good bill. It solves many procedural and substantive problems. It is a product of broad consultation. It has included proposals and objections to opposition. It puts an end to the pathogens of the past and to the wounds of society that have been abused and must therefore be treated accordingly. In view of this and as a member of the Standing Committee on Foreign and Defence, I invite you to welcome it positively and to vote in favour of it, in order to move forward with the necessary areas needed by the Greek Army but, I would also complement political life.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Evangelia Vagonakis. Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Isocrat in his letter to Dionykos reads: "If the other mistakes, I am conscientious to you." If you get away from the criticism of others, you don't get away from self-criticism. This, of course, concerns another quality of human attitude. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, with your position you believe you can escape the memory, judgment and logic of society. The courage is that you've been trying to convince yourself that all this political and social abscess, which has existed in the social system for years, you have no responsibility, but no responsibility. I shall begin with a rhetorical question, which I address to colleagues in the New Democracy and PASOK. Why, ladies and gentlemen, for decades your parties have been holding our society hostages with the customer relations they had created and in the field of youth militarisation? You must finally account to your society for your policy, which for decades has treated our militant youth as pawns in your political chess board. Numerous parents' armies conspired in your political offices for a favorable placement or transfer of their militant children. Young people were called upon by the state to carry out the debt towards their homeland and you were carrying out the elementary human dignity, turning them into belligers of the long-standing pass - correct - of the government MP. With this adequacy system, or more rightly with this adequacy system, you have managed to survive politically. And today's bill comes to end this social and political abstention. The military service, ladies and gentlemen, is, in fact, the fundamental obligation of the citizen towards the country and, as such, must be dealt with by the state, with due respect for the concept of social justice. She first comes to heal this bill. It is based on the principle of isology, within the first eight articles it arranges for outstandings and decades arrears, as it establishes a complete system of mobilisation of the hosts, so that the regime of transfers and placements is governed by the principles of transparency and integrity. objective criteria are introduced and categorised, which are distinguished into service, economic and social, since these are a prerequisite for both the military's operational and service needs and the required social justice for the soldiers. Article 8 allows armed doctors to serve in agricultural and regional health centres. For the provision of services, a doctor's salary will be paid by the Ministry of Health. With this arrangement we have many benefits for both the militant and above all for society. In addition, the necessary social role of the army is identified and identified, provided it is ensured that it connects and assists the state. In the same sense, Article 9, which enables armed graduates in law to make use of their term of office as a time of practice in order to obtain a licence to pursue the profession by serving at the legal offices of military advisers. The proposed provision of Article 20 provides for the establishment of a Arms Support Office. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that this office operates, which will provide the necessary psychological, emotional support for the soldiers, at an age even when youth psyche is particularly fragile. In an economy of time, I would like to point out that all of the articles of the bill are persecuted by the same spirit of justice and social sensitivity, which are in a diametrically opposite position from the present to the military. Of course, there are many loose ends that need to be settled. The link between the Army and society must and can be more organic. The state is required in this regard and can contribute substantially to the financial support of the soldiers, providing relief for the travel of the staff members. In addition, the time and place of the army can be converted into flexible programs, which will be developed by military units in an educational workshop, contributing to the lifelong education project. Dependence programmes with productive activities, social support programmes and cultural action, which contribute to the completion of the personality of young people, need to be included in the planning of the Ministry, since the young person in education is self-evident that he becomes a responsible citizen, as the term "responsible" implies. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a critical historic moment. Our country and our people, targeted by the institutions, are being threatened every day more and more by suffering and hard. This is a precondition for ensuring social cohesion, not just for its survival. Social cohesion shall only be guaranteed under conditions of social justice. This equality, social justice, works and serves the bill to be passed, depositing in our society the left footprint of our government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr. Emmanuelides. Mr Constantine Dousina, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. The Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs gave me the great honour of electing me as President, and I wanted three brief comments to make this time at 21.30 p.m. because we started today in the Committee on Defence at 10.00 p.m. and now we are closing 12 hours. So the first comment I want to make relates to the functioning of this committee, when at the four meetings we discussed in detail this draft law. And I think it is important to mention that the debate that took place in the committee showed Parliament and legislative work on the best possible light. We had a thorough and detailed debate at the three meetings and the fourth, the second one, with the bodies. And from what I heard, he was not used to in the past in the Ministry of Defence's bill to have bodies coming and hearing and depositing their evenings. We therefore had several bodies from the Panhellenic Medical Association to Amnesty International, the Citizens’ Counsel and the Association of Conscience Disputes. I was very impressed by the way in which colleagues, of almost all the wings of this House, had detailed information and made important proposals, many of which were accepted by the Minister and greatly improved, I think, the bill that we now have before us. I also wanted to refer to three - four colleagues, Mrs Kosobol, Mr Kefaliannis, Mr Danellis and, of course, Mrs Kanelli, who, whenever she talks, always wakes up, because she says something different and, besides, she helps us avoid sardams, salmonism, to improve the Greek language and that I recognise. Apart from that, I think it is also important to express, as President and on behalf of the committee, my thanks to the legal advisers of the Ministry of Defence, who have done an excellent job - and legal and operational - and of course also to the officials of the Parliament. In this regard, I refer to Mrs Maria Spanou, who is the Secretary of our committee and Mr Kostas Christopoulos, the Director, who at least I am new and I do not know how things are done, have helped me to an excellent degree. I'm going to go into two specific comments. But before that, I would like to say something, as a jurist, in relation to retrospectiveness, which we have heard in the combination of Article 29 and Article 25. Retrospectiveness, of course, when it is heard in general, is something for which legal systems - by the Roman law, with the famous 'nullum cremen, nulla poena sine leg' - are trying to ban a retroactive application of the law, but which changes a situation in the hands. We have a retrospective power here, which changes a situation of improvement. And of what we have heard from the Minister, and also from the rapporteurs and speakers from the SYRIZA, these are some, a few people, and what is happening here is to correct an injustice, improve a situation. Of course, such retrospectiveness in legal systems and legal philosophy is not only doomed, but it is something the law always does. But I should like to make two more comments from my impression from the debate and the committee, and here today, in Parliament. The first is this: I consider this bill to be a vote, a part of a puzzle of general administrative reforms, which the SYRIZA Government is currently trying to achieve. And I will put to these more general administrative reforms first the Public Administration Bill, for which we have heard some of its basic features and principles, namely that it will create a register for civil servants according to their skills and also introduce an evaluation system in which ratings will be evaluated, double-way and mutual. And the friend and colleague, Christopher Vernardakis, who from what we heard the day before, only has two partners, while a previous Minister of the Ministry itself had fifty-two.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u210	Add four more! Others are coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u211	Another four? Yeah. Of the two to go to six. Let's say six. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] So this bill is just part of a great effort, which only one left-wing government has to admit that it could introduce. Because it does not have these burdens and these obligations and mortgages, which the previous governments had. In relation to this bill, I think his worthy background in general is that of human dignity. We also see it in Article 4, which relates to the transfers and placements of the couriers. There is a logic of'structured freedom', not absolute. Because the cartel has the right within the first ten days of his term to make a statement and to state to which place he wants to serve and then, with the function of mobilising the objective, the service and the social criteria, to decide where he is going, by putting this element of the army into the sense of the limited - I said it structured - freedom of choice and dignity. The dignity also appears in the article relating to the armed committees, which there is clearly and openly said that 'protection of human dignity is a basic principle, which these groups, the armed forces' committees, will take into account. I would like to finish by saying a few words as a member of the National Committee on Human Rights, which on 20 January issued a series of comments and asked me to convey them to the committee as I did. In these comments from the National Committee on Conscience Objections, the Committee argues that it is necessary, firstly, to change the duration of the alternative service of conscientious objections and not to exceed 50% of the duration of normal military service. Secondly, the possibility of continuous and interdependent persecution of objections of conscience must also be stopped. He then raised the question of the composition of the committees, which examine the application for a certain level of conscientiousness. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a minute. Some of these changes have been accepted by the Ministry and I think it is extremely positive. There are others which have not been accepted, but which are necessary soon - as the Minister has told us - to enter a new integrated system and a bill of Conscience. Finally, I would like to say this: Mrs Fotini Vakis spoke, as a political philosopher does, about political disobedience. I would like to generalize that, ladies and gentlemen. Humanity begins with disobedience. In religious tradition Adam and Eve violate, obey God, and so mankind begins. In Greek philosophical tradition, mythology, Prometheus steals the fire and so humanity begins. The disobedience, objection, resistance is not just something that we must anyway, because we are liberal, admit it. It's a component of human existence. Whenever a power relationship is stabilised, a power balance, automatically there is resistance. It was obvious that the SYRIZA government would find resistance from farmers and other groups. This work that the moral philosopher has to do now is...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u212	Mr. Dousina, because of the late hour, you're trying to finish. It turns out that Prometheus tied him to the Caucasus!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u213	I shall conclude with that argument. The differentiation that moral philosopher will make is between resistances, which are natural, is the law of nature, resistances that cannot be avoided, but which only promote individual or collective interests, and other resistances, which are based on universal values and principles. And consciousness what exactly does it mean? It means the moral background on which each one of us is based. So when this moral background says that, for reasons of peace or for other reasons, someone does not want to go to the Army, we must not only understand it, accept it and give it absolute public recognition, but also thank these people. Because without this disobedience and the objection of conscience and all other resistances, some of which are happening today, our societies are dying, they are being hardened. The law becomes obscure, it doesn't go any further. It is therefore our obligation to welcome the world, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u214	Mr President, respect for time is a part of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u215	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u216	Mrs Triantafel has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. We're a few in the benches. In my opinion, disobedience, if conscious, collective, has a specific target for changes, is effective. Let's go on a little bit. Every piece of legislation produces a political result that we will always find in front of us. This bill is not a radical adoption, under no circumstances. It regulates arms transfer issues, adopting a system of moleculosis criteria - no further analysis is needed, they have said it all - service, objectively, broadening social criteria, establishing economic criteria and so on. I've heard a lot of arguments. For example, I heard a colleague saying: 'How can there be criteria when the primary criterion is operational and service needs? How could it be done otherwise, when we talk about Armed Forces?’ Without masturbations, it is an attempt to mitigate, minimize the allotted phenomenon of the "pissum". Because, in order to break the customer relationship, to break favorable rule, a law is not enough. And, noteworthy, not all the MPs do the same. It has been heard by a New Democracy colleague admitting that he has made ruffles. I haven't. And I think that, as he had the courage to say, I or many other colleagues must have the right to call it and defend it. Colleagues wondered what the bill brings, and what the difference between a bill and the regulatory framework that existed and on the basis of which the transfers and the others were being implemented. Neither too little nor much has it been heard that the bill is inappropriate, so the whole process is out of order, the first time that this issue has been regulated. The Minister responded with eight points to what is new. Really, ladies and gentlemen, is this the same thing that has been done so far, with the confession of rospheti, with the disclosure and control of molecules? For each ESRB, the five lower scores and transfers and the positions resulting from them will be announced. And this process in its evolution will create a data bank, with the characteristics, with the species, with the number of molecules per criterion, collected by the transferrs. I would like to insist on the concept of control and, indeed, political control. The political control of the Armed Forces is a conquest of democracy. It is established by the Constitution, but it is undermined by party control, and this has dangerous consequences, not only in the operation, but also in the cohesion, trustworthiness and integrity of the Armed Forces but also in the entire public life. There is a great deal of talk about the worthy and correct, which is not properly questioned, as the social contribution of the Armed Forces is not disputed. The Armed Forces, however, are not anyone's chips, and it must be understood that our decisions produce social effects, produce problems for the Armed Forces as well, for their executives and soldiers. The problems in the educational mechanism and the means available to the Armed Forces, wage cuts and privatisation of defence industries are directly related to the Armed Forces. There have been several references to the amendment to the shipyards. The permanent solutions, the essential solutions, are those which only speak of national planning. I keep the fact that there are very important articles in the bill. For the time economy, I will not go into this. However, they are articles promoting the composition and partnership of military and political structures, and that is very important. The possibility of interconnecting studies and occupations with military service is provided. The examples of doctors, lawyers and others have been mentioned. Moleculation and acquisition of recognised work experience in other specialities are regulated. There are arrangements - all the previous Members have said - about the objections of conscience and the irresponsible ones and of course there are arrangements for permanent staff. They are being heard and heard outrageously about the Armed Forces, which - we must say - defend national interests, i.e. the people's interests. I wonder, however, how our respect for these people, executives and soldiers is taken for granted after the measures I have just mentioned. Let us at least try to ensure such changes that will not undermine the spirit of the Armed Forces. It is one of the issue of political struggle and we all know, as well as those who serve in the Armed Forces, that the Greek people are watching us all. They're all watching us in the political struggle we're giving each other on their side. Most of what has been heard here today is in the effort to convince the Greek society that the current government is an incompetent, incompetent, ruthless and completely subordinate government, which is coming to implement the third and most destructive memorandum, and that everyone is the same. A large part of our people who are being mobilised today, which has ceased to be divided into party and trade union terms - but will never cease to exist - is claiming that social dialogue should be opened and that decisions that will shield the functioning of the social state should be taken. Our people, who first across Europe, dared to collide with the old and took very little victory, are true, know who they are with and who they are not. I suggest we learn to listen to them all. Of course we must listen to those who are shouting, but we must learn to listen to those who are silent. I think it's really going to benefit us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u218	Thank you to Mrs Triantafyllou, who, although she had bonuses due to Aetolanacarnania, did not use. Mrs Stavroulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course difficult not to repeat any of what the previous speakers and speakers have said. I will try, but I cannot say that today's bill - for which a lot has already been heard - does nothing more than what his title says: 'Regulating arms transfers, personnel care and other provisions'. They are provisions of respect for the rights of civil servants, from the right to objections of conscience to the right to raise the level of education and from the right to fair professional judgment without undue exclusion - likely and appropriate - to the right to denounce arbitrariness, violations, abuses of power - if you wish to say so, Mr Kefaliannis, is not your rapporteur, anyway - not the person who has committed them, but the person who has committed them, but the other responsible, specialised, who is referring to hierarchy and -o tempora o mores! - it also informs the relevant committee of Parliament. I really do not understand the objections of the Opposition, which does not question the need for a fair system of placements and transfers, but on the contrary demands its paternity, even if not in law. It does not question the molecule system itself. It questions the good intentions of the political minister responsible for implementing the law. But in this way, at the same time, it also calls into question the constitutional order which determines the executive representative to have the final control over the implementation of what we are voting on here and to be subject to our own control, the parliamentary control of legislative power. I think it is worth pointing out an attempt to eliminate the possibilities of placement at the place of preference, since four municipalities are declared in at least two guards, in two regions. This is a sample of the really detailed and in-depth work that the services have done to draw up this bill. As far as the exceptions are concerned, there is a need not only for reasoned decisions of the hierarchy but also for the committee responsible to be regularly informed about them. Double protected, then, is the system from both the political and the military pit. Is that why the Opposition does not like, who is addicted to feeding one another? The fulfilment of part of the mandatory countryside service by a physician who has not been paid in accordance with the procedures of the Ministry of Health, usually during the last part of his term of office, is nothing new. There was when I did a farm. It has been inactive for some years, for reasons that are not present, and is returning to this law along with the possibility of legal persons making part of their practice and other professionals mobilized by the activity that is related to their profession during their term of office. However, there is nothing in common with other type of fascinating ideas - lacking their inspiration - for unpaid work of scientists pretext to term. We go to the other arrangement, which has accepted the cords of counterpopulation, Article 12, which enables unscrupulous but also conscientious objections, which, because of their distorted approach, are usually characterized by them as irresponsible, to come out of this vicious circle, to settle their obligations in one way or another. At the moment, anyone is asking for an alternative term for people who, when they expressed objections to conscience before 1997, that is, twenty years ago, did they not have an alternative term and will they now do so? This is also a matter for the amendments that we have signed with SYRIZA Members and MPs, Minister, and for the composition of the council that determines who meets the conditions, to call objections to conscience, because its current composition is a fundamental cause of the distortion to which I have referred, and for the reasonable reduction in the additional duration of the alternative term in plus 50% of the armed term, and for the rationalisation of the calculation of administrative fines and the amount of redemption for those who are entitled to this right, but above all for the abolition of the banners, sanctions and fines, to persons who have already been declared unintentionally, a practice which has brought about repeated condemnations of the country by international courts and agencies and that my own patriotism does not tolerate this and considers it to be disgraceful. Other accusations, of course, such as the fact that we do not drown the innocent people who seek refuge in our country, mean that my own patriotism is honored. Article 25 annuls the blockade by the development of the Armed Forces classified from '15' to '18,99' in '20' and has also been criticised by the Opposition, which invokes excellence, but forgets its revulsion of early retirements - retirements, in this case - where this provision, if it were, remains as they were, people who are nothing but inadequate in their work are, even on the presumption of this rating, i.e. '15', '16', '17' to '20'. After some - and he is missing - have chosen to comment on the present, by withdrawing from the past the punctual memory 'you are not entitled to speak', I will also ask: Are you entitled to speak of the current impossibility of the government to pay the thirteenth pension for the summer'saving any agreement'? I would like to ask: are people entitled to talk about an insurance system, which people's money is being invested, to people who have very recently seen their funds depleted, because they have "invested" in the stock market, two because they have reinvested in structured bonds, three because they have remained invested and suffered the famous PSI? I would like to ask: Are neoliberal followers entitled to speak about maintaining an autonomous OGA, when it depends on its funding by the State budget of 90 per cent? Finally, I will ask whether the wars of violence, wherever they come from, are entitled to speak to deceive the Minister of Rural Development's sober attitude to the protesting farmers, but also to a few dozen rosary chrysoupets who are trying to take advantage of the situation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Because the wolf in the antenna rejoices, but lying is close to legs. Dialogue with farmers will begin, the furious screams will not stop him for long, and then it will be abundantly clear who are mocking them and who ensures a sustainable insurance system, which will be one of the next bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u220	Mr. Cryazides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u221	Colleagues and colleagues, many years ago, perhaps decades ago, we heard a Minister of the then government, Koutsogiorgas, who said "you are not entitled to speak." We have also heard it from the colleague who has just come out of the Step that we are not entitled to speak. Dear colleague, we have the right to speak. If that is not the case, I think you are following a very slippery road. And of course, as far as farmers are concerned, if you are talking about Thessaloniki today, wild wood has fallen if you see in the media. So you're following a slippery street.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u222	Mr. Theocharis' complaints. How many times do I have to say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u223	I hope and hope that the continuity of your governance is more moderate and more correct, for the sake of this society. We have recognised, and many times we have said about our own mistakes, hoping that they will not be repeated, but unfortunately we are seeing that they are repeated in the worst way. Minister, it has been heard by other colleagues who have spoken about specific articles, but I have to repeat it again, because I do not know if you will ultimately take the view on Article 9 on the recognition of the exercise time and those officers who hold legal science, not, of course, in the offices of ministers as advisers, but, as you well know, who are now exercising this legal science, I would say, in a clear and productive manner. So it is unfair to separate those officers within the Armed Forces into good or 'no bad', in a way not equal, and of course that is unfair. I have to refer to Article 11 again, as regards the standardization allowance for spouses in a measure, they are in diaspora or those single soldiers, who are indeed right to extend the normalization allowance - I mean those singles who have children. Unfortunately, however, you do not include the workers in the Security Body, police officers, firefighters and porters. This is a good question, because this distinction is made, when it is known that they have the same pay system and not just. I would say that the figure is not such that it cannot be approached economically. In all these three bodies, about a thousand members, are those which, I would say, would have been assisted by this allowance. So two standards and, of course, it is worth wondering how the Left of Justice and at this point does not apply equality, justice. I would, of course, also like to refer to the annual crises - and we are talking about the amendments - an amendment which I would like to say that the Deputy Minister of Public Order and Civil Protection has also brought in, as far as the "disposal" of the Chief of Greek Police is concerned. You should know that the crises normally begin on 20 January - then they started - so that the annual reports will be transmitted from all over Greece to Headquarters, so that there will then be an assessment of the entire February and then, at the beginning of March, the annual crises will begin. Unfortunately, all this was done on a presidential order, which - as I said in my first speech - was sent back by the Council of State in order to correct it. There was, of course, that coup d'état of the government - I mean, as a provision - which, by way of a presidential decree, tried to get the Chief of Greek Police out of the House, when we know very well that the HRC for certain reasons can proceed to this 'dismissal' of the Chief, either on his own request or if he is determined to have committed a 'personality', in order to avoid, or if he does not fulfil the authority and mission for which he has been chosen. None of this is happening and yet you are going on the right way, by law, because the Council of State has imposed this on you. This 'exceeding' has not been possible today, so that you can go ahead with this amendment as an exceptional - unknown reason - in these crises. Indeed, this regulation could apply from next year, normally, one would say. The question is: Why this study? Why are you creating this anomaly in the police, in which the staff are now in a state of standby and suspension of each operation, because they do not know exactly what will happen? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Finally, I would like to refer to your concern, as regards the current position of the Minister of Finance, Mr Juliarakis, regarding that issue which is tormenting both the Armed Forces and the Security Body, the government's compliance with the decision of the Council of State. Finally, the Minister this morning, in response to a timely question, put an end to any anticipation of armed forces and security forces, despite any commitments made by the Minister of Defence last year. For there were commitments made by the Minister of Defence last year, that the remaining 50% of what the New Democracy - PASOK government had set up would be given by you. The Armed Forces and Security Bodies, the executives, were in one half satisfaction, and the other half would give it as a government. So it comes at the end of June of the past year, a commitment by the Minister of Defence, in the run-up to the election, that if not given by 15 December, it will be withdrawn, resigned, because it does not apply, the Government does not implement the decision of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u224	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u225	Today I would say that in a tragic way for the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps, this is now a myth. In the answer given in this way in terms of the Minister responsible, he has been lost - I would say - any expectation that you will get nothing. Unfortunately, this is the harsh reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u226	Here comes Mr. Nzimanis. Come on, General, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u227	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u228	Here you go, Mr. Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u229	Mr President, the Minister responsible has not been present for some time now. We are legislated without the presence of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u230	He came out for a while, Mr. Davaki, and he'll be back.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u231	Let's wait a minute, Mr. President. The government cannot listen. He's just a man on his own, and he had to get out a little bit. Let's wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u232	We will simply say some proposals now on the articles and I think they should be here. It's never happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u233	He'll be notified to return to the seats, Mr. Davaki. Here, he's here. Mr. Njimani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u234	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on this point I would like to make one speech and to express my opinion on the matter, which has been discussed in detail in the parliamentary committee, but has also been raised by a number of media in recent days. Of course it is nothing but the issue of the ranking of officers at compulsory schools. This bill only restores the stability of a situation that existed between 1996 and 2010, and of course restores the unjustly, but also commonly, interrupting career development of new officers who are at risk of being paid careers for the rest of their careers due to their performance at a mandatory school of the Armed Forces. I shall speak in particular, as my long presence in the area of the Armed Forces, where I served for more than thirty-seven years, allows me to have a clear view on the matter. First of all, because there was a lot of talk about the possibility of selecting some officers to a higher degree, I would inform you that according to Mr. 3883/2010, which introduced the strictest limits of the "Liaon Good" performance rating, states that, for those executives up to 31-12/2012, they had completed twenty-five years of service still the old, first and foremost, more favourable status of their ratings. Regulation (EC) No 2439/1996. We cannot talk about allegedly favourable and discriminatory treatment - according to your so-called officers - which under the transitional provision of Article 91 of Law 3883/2010 today have twenty-nine years of service, having graduated from the compulsory schools provided for on the basis of the more favourable rankings of L. Regulation (EC) No 2439/1996. This is because the relevant ministerial decision provides that the major is required to complete the compulsory schools. The above category of officers has graduated on the basis of the expanded rating of L.2439/1996. There is therefore no question of assessing the performance of the compulsory schools of the older officers, who are currently in higher grades, except for younger ones, who are subject to n. 3883/2010. As compulsory schools of education, in accordance with the Ministerial Decision of 2011 entitled ‘Personal Schools of Responsibilities of the Armed Forces’, the basic and advanced school is defined to the extent of the lieutenant and captain respectively, and the Headquarters School of Staff up to the rank of the Major. With regard to the argument you are referring to a portion of officers who have not allegedly obtained the required "Liaan Fine" rating at the War School, which is a prerequisite for their absolute election, it is not present. And I'll explain why. First, in accordance with Article 25 of Law 3883/2010, the criterion for the promotion of an absolute election of the anti-constitutional authorities is that of graduation from the compulsory schools for promotion with an exception. This draft law does not make any changes to this rating scale and closes this topic. Now, as far as the Colonels are concerned, it is laid down that, in order to be judged by choice, the relevant crisis councils must have graduated well from the Higher Interclade School of War and for the promotion of an absolute election with a 'Liane Good' rating. The argument put forward, that our order is a clear interference in the forthcoming crisis in March, is not correct. Indeed, the 'Lian Good' rating at the IPTO is a prerequisite to the promotion of an absolute election of the colonists, and many have rushed to interpret that the provision we introduce has this feasibility. However, no intervention can be made here too. More careful reading of the provision leads us to another conclusion: The repetition of the crises is foreseen only for officers who have been found to be kept in writing because of their schooling in compulsory schools, 'Good'. I categorically point out that it cannot be done to re-evaluate the assessment of the High School of War. The reason is that colonists with a 'Good' performance in ADISPA, who may resort to reclassification after the implementation of the new law, do not fall within the category of officers, who have so far been deemed to have been held to the extent to which they are promoted in writing. The performance with a rating less than "White Good" in the DISCLOSU is not a reason for the unfavourable crisis that is maintained in writing, as is the case for the categories of younger officers in the compulsory schools. After all, I believe that your concerns and objections to excellence and the hierarchy of the Armed Forces are unstable. Your only concern arises from the realisation that SYRIZA is not a left-wing parentheses, but a party that is going to govern Greece for many more years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u235	Thank you. Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to some articles on which I wanted to make a few remarks, I would like to make a comment in this Chamber on the fact that military service is a waste of time for a new Greek man, for a Greek man, who is obliged - whether conscious or unconscious, compulsorily forced - to serve his service in the Armed Forces, serves the highest, most sacred, ideal of all those elements that are elements of our national identity and patriotism, which are the defence of the territorial integrity and independence of our country. So I think that lost time has nothing to do with what you're saying. I believe that it is an insult to all those Greeks who are now decades, not only post-war, but also before the First or Second World War, those Greeks that their military service found them during the period of degraded conditions and war periods. It is a historic insult and an insult to the memory of those who have found them in an obligation of military service. I think you should rethink it or rethink the meaning of lost time. It's not a waste of time when a young Greek learns how to handle a weapon. It is not a waste of time when a young Greek participates in various rescue procedures or medical assistance procedures for our fellow citizens in remote areas, as the Armed Forces are presenting all the time. I believe that an ideological struggling on issues, which may sometimes seem to you as examples, prompts you to say that the fulfilment of the military service of the new Greeks is a waste of time. With regard to Article 6(4) of 2%, Minister, I believe that the two-and-a-half per ESS, which makes us a thousand two hundred per year, is a large number, as I said in the morning, a serious figure, which opens the door wide open to what you are trying, with the bill we are discussing, to close. You need to see it. Whether it's 1% or completely removed. It can be done. There are procedures for both service reasons and the need for a social offer. There are procedures, there are methods, there are conditions to correct it and create what you want, in these cases. The introduction of 2% is an assumption that, in short or not, however, allows us to say that you leave the door open to what you are trying to eliminate. As far as doctors are concerned, 'if certain positions cannot be covered by the Ministry of Health', i.e. those declared barren. I repeat that the wording is correct, but above all it must be taken into account, as you say, the needs of the units in health care, the needs of teachers for training, etc., and all that the border regions need with regard to doctors. The Armed Support Office is a case that has been mocked by some wings. I think that's a bad choice. The Armed Support Office can be implemented for a short period of time, but it will become the "come see", in common, by various types, which are either growing up by strange procedures or by those who join the political offices and tell us different things about the conditions of the Army - and most of all are problematic cases - or other. We will have a hierarchy conflict, we will have a serious issue for unit commanders and other agencies, and I think you will go there to do things for which you will find yourself before unforeseen situations, which I would not say are having problems. The recently occupied by the Vima, the senior officer, Mr Njimani, was quoted in half the article in terms of 25. He was brought up to the colonel. It did not, then, talk about the rest of the people, I would say, influences of your choice, which you are tempting on the specific regulation of n. 3883. This article refers to the evolution of officers. It is about the previous law, and we should see the whole case from the outset and not fragmented, as you are now doing. We agree to modify the school rating because it will solve some existing problems in the development of officers. It should be noted, however, that there is a problem with regard to the types of crisis referred to in Article 25 of the Treaty. 3883, the absolute and the chosen one. The absolute election crisis, Minister, as you will well know, relates to a small number of executives from each class, the small number we all say, the "excellent" who, under conditions and criteria, are promoted a year earlier by their classmates and are intended to become the Armed Forces' leadership tomorrow. One of the criteria for the promotion of an absolute election, in addition to the prerequisites for compulsory schools, which must have graduated with excellent degrees, is that they must have graduated and graduated from the High School of War with the degree of "Liane Good" - "17", i.e., and above - which you are now experimenting with and doing "15" and above. This is how you degrade the most important criterion for choosing the perfect ones. That is why Mr Njimanis, growing up with a party duty and forgetting - I don't know - his military army so far has not read all the arrangements you're doing and tempted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. Our proposal is - and I have said it in committee - in paragraph 2b(3) of Article 25 of the Treaty. 3883 to be amended as follows: "Graduate from the Higher Classical School of War with a degree of "17" or above". If you persist, Minister, in your negative view, I will say that it is a very suspect one month before the crisis - our rapporteur, Mr Kefaliannis - was also told, because you are tempting the criteria for the absolute election, on the ground of which is based the structure of tomorrow's hierarchy, of the Armed Forces' leadership tomorrow. You must consider this very seriously, when there is no mention in the explanatory statement or elsewhere of changing the criteria. It is the last time to see it, because a legend is being created on a very important issue, which concerns the development of the excellent officers, who will certainly be the head of the Armed Forces tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u237	Mr. Aivatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u238	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will make it clear that I will vote against the draft law at first, but I will also vote against many articles, including 1, 3 and 12. With regard to Article 1, the Minister of National Defence shall be proclaimed to be the supreme service handler of the soldiers. In any case, the Golden Dawn firmly believes that this role should be played by the Staff. In Article 3 there is a clear reference to the cohabitation agreement. The Coexistence Pact is a promotion of a political product for SYRIZA, which thus restores it to a draft law of the Ministry of National Defence. Should some people bear the “moophylophilossos” and not the nationalist, Minister? Because some SYRIZA MPs brought this emblem of homosexuals to the tower when voting for the draft law on cohabitation. As regards Article 12, objections to conscience are divided into two categories. They're religious and ideological. I will ask the Independent Greeks: Do they know who they serve with this draft law? They serve Jehovah’s witnesses. For SYRIZA: Who is SYRIZA serving? SYRIZA serves the disapprovals of ideology, i.e. the anti-powered, who refuse to hold a weapon for their country, for Greece. But the molotovs are very easily smiling. That's well known. Border surveillance is a matter which can only be resolved in one way. There is no border guard with FRONTEX, except with the Armed Forces. I shall refer to two data, because some continue to invoke this false refugee issue, which is essentially illegal immigration. Sweden has decided to relaunch eighty thousand people who have asked for asylum and have not been given them. These eighty thousand don't have to ask ourselves where they went from? Obviously, their large percentage, from Greece. Secondly, today in Paris, Disneyland, a fundamentalist Muslim attempted to act terroristally. He was armed with explosives and of course with the Quran with him. Today, twenty years ago, the Navy "Antonio" patrol to the Great Imia raised the Greek flag, as it had to. I'll remember what was said by Holbrook. He said, "No troops, no shops, no flags." Then the then Prime Minister, Constantine Simitis, was considered by some as a "archite" of corruption. I think he is the high priest of the grey areas. Days on January 31, 1996, Lieutenant Christodoulos Karthanasis, Lieutenant Panagiotis Vlahakos and Corfu Chief of Staff Hector Gilopsos passed to eternity, to all the Greek heroes, under at least strange conditions. Golden Dawn will honor their memory on Saturday and invite all Greeks to attend, at least as many people as they feel Greek. Immortal heroes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u239	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u240	Mr. Carras, do you need two minutes or is there a lot?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u241	It's too much, Mr. President. Just, if you're kind enough, you'll give me the floor for a minute after the Minister's position.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u242	After the Minister? But the Minister will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u243	I have asked some questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u244	Now put them in order to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u245	I've been on them before, so I don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u246	Okay. You won't talk again. Mr. Stamatis has the floor for four minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u247	Mr President, it would be four minutes, because I went to the Step for a specific reason, but I cannot help expressing my opinion on the speech by Mr Dousina, who is also the chairman of the Committee on National Defence. It is a polite man, I am not saying, with politeness, but I have not been able to understand his views on conscientious objections. Conscience objections are not presented for the first time in Greece. They've been here before. The last time they were presented was in Byzantium, who preferred to wear the priest’s ambiguity to avoid the militia. The result of this avoidance of militarism is we all know how expensive Hellenism has paid for and how long it has been. I say this to remember who we owe thanks and to whom we don't. To those sacrificed we owe thanks rather than to those who avoid sacrifice. However, the reason why I took up the step has to do with the amendment of the Ministry of Public Order. Minister, you're not the minister responsible, but what can we do? You represent the government. The proposed provision is supposed to be about shortening the time for the crisis of the Chief of Hellenic Police. One of the reasons which, in the view of the Government, obliges the government to make this arrangement is included in the report on the consequences of regulation - which it says is attached to it? ‘In addition, Article 31 of the B.C. As amended by d.o.b. No 24 of 1997, as amended by d.o.b. ‘.../2015’ means that the officers of the Greek Police other than the Chief shall be judged on a regular basis during the period from 21 January to 20 February of each year.’; Is there such a presidential decree, Minister? There isn't. Then two of those things happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u248	How do you know it doesn't exist?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u249	Because this is where he's got laundry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u250	Yeah, I saw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u251	The immediate thing you see is that it's got lazy. There's no number. The second is the information I have. My information is that a draft Presidential Decree was actually tabled in the S.H.E., but SETE has not been thriving and we do not know whether it will thrive. But two of these things happen. Or that the government is attempting to mislead the Greek Parliament by presenting time-limits for the Greek police's judgement of the Greek police at a time when it does not actually exist, because on the basis of the other deadline - the Presidential Decree in force - the judgments are made in March and the Chief in April. What, then, is the reason for an acceleration? It's either that or something else. Or this is a preliminary move for the government's sponsored démarche. I mean elections. We've seen this before in the Armed Forces' judgments. And because I have heard a protest, colleagues of SYRIZA, if you see your Chief in the next period of his "flat" with the rebel's chariots and blows, prepare your election books. Either way, because the rapporteur's report, in order to support this provision, is incomplete, unless I am mistaken, to present to us the President-in-Office of the Council, which is in force today and which is the date of crisis on 21 January. If that is not the case, the Government must immediately withdraw this provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u252	There is no vote, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u253	Every five to six months we will have elections in Greece. That's the conclusion. Minister, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u254	Mr President, I may need a little more time because I did not speak at the outset about the articles. First of all, I would like to say this on the amendments which I have not accepted in this bill: there is a proposal from the Union of Centres, which is accepted and which, as I have said, will be included in the next bill. It's about the military, the lieutenants who have custody of relatives, beyond the first degree, to be very specific. Secondly, amendments made by Members of the SYRIZA and by Members of the Communist Party of Greece are not lost. The amendments relating to conscientious objections, as I have already explained several times to committees - I will say again - this issue - is a mistake to the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u255	He's going to vote. Bring it to a next bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u256	With Mr Paradoxopoulos, the Minister for Justice, we have said that, taking all this into account, we will sit down to discuss this issue in a committee and the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Justice should take the relevant legislative initiative. This is drifting into relation to the other. That's what I'm saying. Secondly, a number of amendments tabled by Mrs Canelli, which concern - and nobody would say - the day-to-day life of the military are still not lost. However, many of them still have to deal with the necessary regulation along with other ministries. Some have to do with orders. We're not gonna go through the law how many uniforms are going to be in the Dry Army. These are just decrees. However, other issues have to do with the Ministry of Finance, with the Ministry of National Economy and others. Do not forget that exactly what this law provides already includes, as far as its economic part, in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. We are also taking into account the situation we are in at the moment. Second matter. We're making a great effort to honor history. Take as an omission the value tax valuation to the heroes of the Imian people. The Ministry of National Defence makes special events and in this direction moves permanently. You know that we have just brought from Cyprus the remains of six heroes.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u257	The bones.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u258	That's right, the bones of six heroes from the period 1964-1974. Recently at a special ceremony with a mandate but also with a corresponding arrangement of the Minister of National Defence - how can we say so? - the reason for the silence of the hero Dimitrios Mtsatsos - is the man - who was the ruler of the unspeakable "FATH" in the battle of Telleria. Since 1964, if I am not mistaken, until now, even though he had lost his one hand, he had never spoken holding - I would say - secretly. So we are doing this and I think in this direction we should keep moving. I will not talk about everything, I have said it several times in committee. However, there are a number of issues to which I should like to refer. The first issue is the famous debate that is taking place here in relation to Article 1, which has political characteristics for me. I'm asking again. Who has political responsibility for the overall issues of the Armed Forces? Who has political authority? Clearly the political leadership, which administers and monitors implementation. So are transfers, and so are a number of other issues. The political perception, expressed in many here, is that the officers and the senior officers know and contemplate everything else. Would you put that on the equipment? Would you put that in the national industrial defence strategy? Would you put that in the reconstruction process of the Armed Forces? Of course, they're suggesting. Of course, they do analyses, studies and so on. I said how the law would be implemented. Indeed, this political logic creates a problem for me, when we are making a very great effort with Minister Pano Kammenis, to contribute to the upgrading of parliamentary control and the functioning of his committees on the issues of the Armed Forces. At the moment, I have to tell you, for you know, that we are gearing towards the systems that Germany has, which Cyprus has. We cannot directly transfer them, but in communication and contact with the General Staff, as we did with this law. We're starting with General Staff, we'll finish with General Staff, and we'll be assigned to General Staff. That's what we're gonna do. In relation to transfers, I hear a reasonable award by law, so that it may be the case. Here this is invested in a wicked thought, while for the fifth time at a meeting I have said the process after the criteria have been formulated, whenever the General Staff are ready. And I heard from one side of Parliament, from a Member, who usually speaks from underneath and not from above about these things, say "slowly don't assign it!" You will soon realize that we will assign it and listen to it soon, without me telling you it. You will hear it from the complaints of those who have become accustomed to going beyond the regulations and laws, through the "appropriate" people, those who will take to the political offices and all - and the Minister - will say: "It cannot be done, there is a law on this matter." Secondly, I do not want to extend, Mr Loverdos, to you, but to the position of the outside world. This is not about position in embassies. I can only remind you of one: Greek Power Cyprus. Is that what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u259	Apparently, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u260	Obviously. This is not about position in embassies. For the Olympics, there's probably been a misunderstanding. We do not regulate the intake of Olympics. We say this: if an Olympian - whom we have hired with a previous law, which has brought previous governments, regardless of whether I agree or not - is already four years, he is not sent to a basic education school. That is all we have to regulate. Read it carefully. I will now talk about the Elefsina shipyards, and I will reasonably end this. There is a lot of political hypocrisy here. In a sense, I had an easy political task to avoid responsibility. I could say from the beginning of October: ‘What do I care? In February the whole previous contract expires, the company will not be able to respond anyway, this procedure will end, I will go to the clauses and the guarantee letters." But I thought about what I'd do like that? I will achieve the following things: Firstly, the Navy will not have the two torpedoes, not in twenty-nine months but in sixty-four, secondly, the shipyards will actually close and, thirdly, six hundred families will stay on the road. These three things.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u261	But you did not recognize these to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u262	Wait a minute. So what do I do? I call on most parties and discuss with them, asking: 'Let us move on to such an agreement?' The answer was: "Let's make the effort." I'm talking to the workers, I'm talking about ownership and the Navy, and they're making the effort. In this process parties in general and more specifically are informed. And I cannot understand Mr. Theochari's orgasm. Because of course I understand that usually in the bazaar, anyone who has to sell the most rotten thing is shouting. But, especially with the Potami and, of course, with an invitation from this, I went to the Committee of the Ministry of National Defence and made an effort to explain and I am always ready to explain in this process. And it's not the way Mr. Pallis says, who's not here. 60% voted for the deal and 40% wanted 70% of the wage to be a hundred percent! That was the difference between the workers. Because I've been to Elefsis Shipyard and once and twice and I've been accused of pulling this thing out. Thirdly - and let us see the difference after the previous - the programme involved seven torpedoes of some 880 million. In practice, what happened every time and we arrived - I say it as a Greek state - to not be able to get it? We got the deposit from the next one, and we kicked it in the last one. And who did this thing? Who took that thing? He was taking the property. That's why I asked you to tell me within the EUR 1 contract that goes to ownership. The property doesn't even get one euro. We have sat down - there is also a joint study agreed - with the workers about how much money they will go to workers, how much money they will go to IKA and to insurance contributions. Secondly, the rights of workers to property are not eliminated and the rights of the Hellenic Navy to property and the amendment and the convention do not go away. What we want is, whatever happens, to take the two missiles - which I have to tell you are a wonderful achievement of the Hellenic Navy and the know-how and people of the Elefsina Shipyards - and that is what we are trying to do. Are you sure, they're asking me that the property will respond? Answer me. On the basis of the agreement and on the basis of the law, in a sense - let me say this in this way - I have all the rights, if it does not respond, that all the legal and legal procedures are followed and that I take both of the missiles. I think we can agree on this. So I understand, from a political point of view, what one can say, but that is the logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u263	If you're short, the deal will be a celebrity, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u264	Yes, Mr. President. I'll say two more things. As far as excellence is concerned, this debate is taking place again. An extremely weak argument is recycled. The MP and retired general, Mr. Nzimanis, said something. But I want to invoke common sense. The New Democracy strongly supports a law that, if I am not mistaken, voted against this House. One thing is that. You are opposed to scores, which you used as a New Democracy, and you have not changed them. And let's go more specifically. I want excellence in schools too? Of course, I want it in school too. But does an officer who has a career forty years have only six months and six months of compulsory school? Is it not his operational and professional training, is it not personnel management, is it not his effectiveness, which makes him excellent? I want to tell you a personal opinion - I do not want to say anything - and I imagine you will agree on this. I find Dimitri Ichio an excellent officer, who was a sergeant. I imagine you all know him, and you know his story. And if we start talking and then we get into the process of what they are and who we are "Greeks" and who we are, and who we are not, was of Vlach origin, as we know. Isn't he excellent? Am I going to compare that? One will tell me - and it will be right to tell me - that there is another procedure now. I said about political hypocrisy. Let me also say about culture. As far as refugees and migration flows are concerned - as far as the entire government is concerned - I want to make a special reference to both the Coordinating Minister and the Ministry of Migration Policy and the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Shipping and the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of National Defence, which lifts most of the burden. We try and work together. Looking for someone to find, isolate, a word and create that way - how can I say it? - Doro, it's in my opinion civilization. And as far as the Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defence are concerned, I wanted to say the following: It has made a major contribution to research and rescue. It has contributed up to millions. Something that has been read for 200,000 concerns only one House - if I'm not mistaken - the Navy. If we go to the Drought Army, you'll see that this is millions. He's proposed eight, and he's given camps to the farm. Let's not forget that Moria and the other camp are former camps. He's given powers to devise spaces. I'm very happy - I'm not saying it for that, it could be anyone else - who has shaken the hand of the man of the year, who is Sergeant SPO in the power of ELDEK and saved the pregnant woman in Rhodes in the summer. You know them from the headlines. But here we are going in particular on the issue that comes with regard to Schengen. Does anyone agree here with the most extreme voices and practices of European conservative political forces? Does it agree with the fact that countries in Europe do not respond? And while we have a hundred and sixty thousand, they've gone to relocate four hundred. Mr. Avramopoulos said it. In this sense - if you want - we must try to do the best, like others, because they have responsibilities. And what I mentioned about the Armed Forces, I would like to say that we have actually paid them from our budget. This is, in my opinion, a fundamental issue. Everyone can look for the most specific issue and see from the back - nobody would say - evil. But we're not all the same. And I would like a generation of politicians, which will not be the same as the previous one. And that's very important. I would like to say one more thing to close and thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance. I first read "War and Peace", when I was in elementary school. I've read it five times. Every time I had one phrase, the first time as a question, the second question: let us say - so in society, and another time on the basis of the logic that I do not want it to be done in society, but I want to be another thing. It was Tolstoy's phrase that gallons are usually not won in the battlefields, but in the general living room. I, you, the Armed Forces, should be opposed to winning the gallons at the headquarters of the generals. And I must say to you and say to you that, as far as I am aware, the whole of the Armed Forces, the overwhelming majority - I do not want to say 100% - works in this sense, that they will win their gallons in the fields of combat, deterrence, social offer and not in ruffles, not in general's living room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on articles and amendments is adjourned...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u266	Wait a minute, because Mr. Stamatis had asked a question, and I think it is serious, and that's why I had to communicate. He understands it himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u267	Don't get over War and Peace, I mean, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u268	It's the n.e.c. 4/2016 Article 1(2), FEK A8 of 2016. And that's from January 21st to February 20th. This is the information I have - as you can see - from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u269	When is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u270	I said it and I'll give it to you. It's the n.e.c. 4/2016 Article 1(2).
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u271	Date?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u272	It is January 22, FEK A8 of 2016 and takes place from January 21st to February 20th. That is what you have put forward on the formal but fundamental political issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u273	This is the second version I mentioned, Minister. You're preparing elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u274	Your political appreciation, of course, is respected. Usually, Mr. Stamatis, he's also unfortunate.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u275	Let me explain...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u276	Mr. Stamatis, are we going to resolve this right now? I propose that, instead of every five months, we hold elections in Greece every three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u277	Mr President, I would like to speak on the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u278	Hello?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u279	One, I think, would like to propose an easy-to-track proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u280	Mrs. Canelle, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u281	Since the amendments are many, because the articles are a lot and the time is last, I would at least ask that the amendments be said clearly, one of the figures, so that there is no mistake, because they have been confused. There are amendments of the first day, amendments to the second debate or today, and we must be able to vote soberly.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u282	There's gonna be an effort, Mrs. Canelley. Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u283	Mr President, I fully agree with what Mrs Canelley said.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u284	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u285	However, I would ask that we confirm the amendments which the Minister proposed and accepted in terms of figures, so that we do not get confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u286	Mr President, because it does not sound in the middle of what we are voting on...
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u287	It's noted.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u288	I suggest you repeat from a microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u289	The debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence is adjourned: "Consolidating issues of transfer of soldiers, care of staff and other provisions" and their vote will be taken separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u290	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u291	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u292	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u293	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u294	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u295	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u296	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u297	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u298	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u299	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u300	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u301	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u302	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u303	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u304	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u305	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u306	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u307	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u308	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u310	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u311	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u312	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u314	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u315	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u316	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u317	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u318	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u319	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u321	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u322	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u323	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u324	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u326	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u328	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u329	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u330	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u331	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u333	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u335	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u337	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u338	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u339	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u341	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u343	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u345	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u346	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u347	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u349	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u352	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u354	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u356	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u358	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u359	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u360	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u362	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u363	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u364	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u366	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u367	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u368	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u369	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u371	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u372	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u373	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u374	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u375	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u376	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u377	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u378	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u379	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u380	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u381	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number 163 and a special number 17, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u382	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u384	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 163 and a special 17 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 165 and a special 18?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u385	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u386	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u387	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u388	The amendment under a general number 165 and a special 18 was therefore accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment acceptable under a general number of 166 and a special number of 19?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u389	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u390	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u391	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u392	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u393	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u394	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u395	Therefore, Amendment No 166, and a special 19, was accepted by a majority, and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general figure of 167 and a special 20?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u396	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u397	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u398	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u399	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 167 and a special 20 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number of 162 and a special number of 16?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u400	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u401	Therefore, the amendment under general number 162 and a special 16 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 160 and a special number of 14?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u402	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u403	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u404	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 160 and a special 14 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number of 152 and a special number of 12?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u405	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u406	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u407	Therefore, Amendment No 152 and Special Representative No 12 were accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 161 and a special 15, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u409	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u411	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 161 and a special 15 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u412	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u413	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Consolidation of issues of transfer of soldiers, staff care and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority on the principle and on the articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u414	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u415	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u416	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u417	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u418	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Consolidation of Issues of Armed Forces, Careers and Other Provisions’ was accepted by a majority, only debate on the principle, articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u420	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2016-01-28-S2-commons.u421	With the consent of Parliament at the time of 23.48' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 29 January 2016 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, legislative work: Only discussion and vote at the outset, articles and all of the draft law: ‘Adapting the Greek legislation to Directive 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 concerning the taking up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance (Solvency II), Articles 2 and 8 of Directive 2014/51/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directives 2003/71/EC and 2009/138/EC and Regulations (EC) Nos 2 and 8 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directives 2003/71/EC and 2009/138/EC and Regulations (EC) Nos. Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009, (EU) No 1060/2009, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
