ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e49	From the appointed Great Britain Delegation to Brazil, Argentina and Chile, there is an application for leave, signed by the President of Stortinget Dag Terje Andersen. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives of Bendiks H. Arnesen, Anders Anundsen, Øyvind Halleraker, Aksel Hagen and Tone Merete Sønsterud from 12 April to 21 April, of the representative of Laila Davay from 13 April to 21 April and of the President of Stortinget Dag Terje Andersen and of the representative of Erling Sande from 14 April to 21 April. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Hedmark County: Farahnaz BahramiFor Hordaland County: Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad and Filip RyggFor Uppland County: Kristine KvamFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Knut Magnus OlsenFor Troms County: Martin HenriksenFor Westfold County: Heidi Ørnlo and Morten Stordalen
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e116	The representative, Bent Höie, will present a proposal for a representative:
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e119	On behalf of Mr. Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal for better legal certainty for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e124	The representative Siri A. Meling will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e127	On behalf of the big business representatives Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Line Henriette Hämdal, Borghild Tenden and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to set up a test and demonstration programme. ‘Demo 2020’, for marine wind technology in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e132	The representative, Inbjørg Vosskensen, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e135	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Jensen, Per Sandberg. Bård Hoksrud, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Arne Sortevik and myself will make proposals for full funding of the Trondheim package.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e140	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. It has been suggested in the past that there might be a need to decide that the meeting should be extended if it went beyond the regulatory time of the morning meeting. At the President's discretion, it will not be necessary to take such a decision. The President makes it clear that there will be voting immediately after that case no. 1 is done, so we stay in the hall until the matter is dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e158	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e172	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e183	I would like to begin by commending the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good descriptive statement. I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs so clearly and unequivocally takes away from the SV's repeated desire to withdraw Norwegian forces from Afghanistan by saying in the statement that ‘Norway is fully behind’ NATO's efforts in Afghanistan. To TV 2 24 March, the Foreign Minister also said: I am sure that if Afghanistan is left to chaos, it will come back and hit everyone. My starting point is that we are there through a unanimous mandate in the UN Security Council and that Afghanistan as it is today threatens peace and security. It makes sense to act as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, namely to see the world situation and Norwegian foreign policy through the price of the financial crisis. It has shown in many ways the mutual vulnerability of open economies and today's international system. Cross-border problems also require common solutions. It is therefore important that policies follow the economy and become more cross-border. It is also important that we do not try to over-regulate ourselves from the financial crisis. There are signs — though not as strong as one could fear — that some countries choose isolationism and protectionism. Of course, there are particularly small countries with open economies. Market economy, trade, globalisation and more political cooperation are the main means of getting out of the financial crisis. The United Nations system has also demonstrated its limitations through the financial crisis. It is not unnatural that influential countries seek different channels of power. Where we have been talking about multilateralism for many years, we can in part now talk about a mini-lateralism, where influential countries, for example. The United States and China apply together. But there is also a correct observation by the Foreign Minister that the United States can focus more onward than on outwards. I also want to add: when the United States directs its focus outwards, it's not primarily above the Atlantic, but maybe primarily above the Pacific. The US sees more urgent strategic priorities in countries like China, India, the Middle East and Russia than they do in Europe. The shift in power in the world, when you look at Asia's growth, and perhaps especially India and China, shows that it's a huge development both economically and politically. It is impossible to imagine an international system today where these countries do not play a decisive role. Of course, China's integration into the world economy is important. China shows muscles, but China's growth is not completely unlimited either. What role these countries will play is, to a large extent, up to themselves – whether they will play a constructive role or a less constructive role. We've seen examples of both. The position of the West remains significant. It's relatively reduced, but not real. I think it is important that we do not underestimate either the ability of the United States or Europe to change. What is a challenge for Norway with many new countries on the power arena is that they are relatively little known in Norway, that we have relatively little competence and that they are geographically distant. I also believe that there were some issues that the Minister for Foreign Affairs could have benefited from. I would therefore use the rest of the time to problematize some of the areas where I believe that the statement did not give a clear enough direction or a clear enough priority. One is the question of human rights. The Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to the work of the UN Human Rights Council. We have been a member there for approx. a year, we're going to be a member of 2012. The question is how we work there, in cooperation with countries that we want to influence in relation to human rights. There is a lot of emphasis on the dialogue line, but the question is whether we see results and what the strategy is to succeed. I note that yesterday we were able to take note of a small victory, because we have now received the backing of a proposal on human rights defenders, and I hope that the Foreign Minister will now engage in a dialogue with the Storting on how we can use the place in the Human Rights Council to influence actively. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also mentioned Iran in his statement. He stated that the last IAEA country report gives ‘all cause for concern’, and that sanctions will force whether Iran is not now going in to prove that the concerns of the international community are groundless. In that description, I believe the Minister for Foreign Affairs is quite right. But the problem is that the concerns are not groundless, and where are we, where are we going? Iran has broken the deadline after the deadline. The nuclear program goes on, and so does one of the world's most active rocket development programs. The combination is literally explosive. In addition to deep concern about the situation surrounding Iran’s nuclear programme, there is every reason to be at least as concerned about the political and human rights situation in Iran. After the election and after the many demonstrations of the fall, we see an increasingly oppressive and illegitimate regime, which turns the revolution against political opposition, minorities and opponents. Persecution, arbitrary arrests and torture – we have even seen executions – continue in Iran. Development will have major consequences for the region, but it can also have major consequences globally. And in order to try to maintain a legitimacy nationally, it is not inconceivable that a regime such as Iran will search for external enemies to try to legitimize its existence. Iran is already perhaps the most negative force in the Middle East, among other things. through its negative impact on the relationship between Israel and the Palestinians and relations in Iraq, Lebanon and Yemen. Evolution in Iran is not just an American problem, perhaps one should say that it is not primarily an American problem either. The road from Tehran is shorter to Bosporus than over the Atlantic. Nor should the international community let it be an Israeli problem. It hardly leads to anything good to create a sense that one's friends and partners leave Israel in the meeting with that country perceives as a completely existential threat. This is a challenge closest to Europe’s threshold, and the challenge posed by Iran is therefore just another example of the importance of a united and coordinated Europe in which the EU can play a much more valuable role than today. It was in this context that I had hoped that the Foreign Minister might have gone a little deeper into the challenge facing both the international community and Norway. The right believes that we need to be even tougher in the future, much clearer and even smarter in the meeting with Iran, and I hope the Foreign Minister will do the same. One of the last issues addressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs was the development of NATO’s new strategic concept. He addressed four key issues related to that work: the partnerships, Russia, cooperation between NATO and other organisations and collective defence. And he added a fifth point, disarmament, and the joint initiative taken by Norway, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Germany. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that Norway wants to focus on NATO's fundamental tasks, collective defence. It would have been interesting to hear also the foreign minister's reflections on what is one of the most important issues relating to the collective defence in NATO today: the content of Article 5. Are new threats such as energy security to be implemented in Article 5? What about the danger of listing threats, that some threats may be excluded, the danger of evading Article 5 if many threats are included, and how do new Member States experience new threats in the east? They have a different relationship with many of our neighbors than what we have. There's a lot of consensus about the vision of a nuclear-free world, but on the way there, there's a lot of different considerations to take. NATO's deterrent doctrines are based on the combination of nuclear deterrence and conventional deterrence, and it is precisely in the balance between these that solutions have to be found. It's not either – or, and it would probably have been in place, I think, if the Foreign Minister could problem the issue a little bit more, and say something about why the very question of nuclear disarmament is one of the most difficult in the work on the new strategic concept. The signals from Washington are that it will be an expression of uneven burden-sharing if it is to be up to the United States alone to take responsibility for nuclear deterrence. There is a real danger that this issue can help break the relationship between the United States and Europe in NATO. The timing of removing American nuclear capacities on European soils is also poor, in the opinion of many, precisely because new NATO countries in the east need security guarantees. The point is to show that the theme is complicated and much more intrusive to the discussion of the further NATO road and the place of Norway and Europe in NATO than is often perceived. A good and descriptive statement could have been made even better if it was clearer about what is Norway's line, Norway's priorities and Norway's role, and I hope the Foreign Minister will take this opportunity to include the UK in the work on foreign policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e223	When I visited China in 1988 together with then Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, Deng Xiaoping said that China needs peace with its neighbours for 100 years to develop. Even the world's most populous countries depend on others to create social and economic development. It's a perspective all countries should share. Think of Israeli leaders so, think of India and Pakistan coming to the same recognition. The financial crisis demonstrated with alarming clarity how limited the right of self-determination of all countries has been in a globalised world. For the first time, we experienced a crisis that hit everyone, and the effects are far from over. At the same time, this crisis demonstrated the importance of close political cooperation developed in recent years, particularly in Europe, and the value of the international bodies built up over 50 years. It was this that provided the basis for the coordination of countermeasures put in place. The measures in each country were moving in the same direction. It prevented a breakdown in financial institutions in many countries and an even more serious crisis than the one we are still in. This underlines the importance of what we have drawn up as our main priority in Norwegian foreign policy: to continue our work on an international legal order with strong and flexible international organisations. Although Norway has escaped significantly easier than perhaps all other countries, an even stronger setback in others would also lead to greater problems in us, with our extroverted and open economy. While international relations have traditionally had security policy as their main driving force, we are seeing more and more clearly that other forces are shaping interests and power relationships. Globalisation has long promoted the economy as an important driver of interest policy. Now the climate challenges are coming as a new driver, and we can add to the migration challenges, which in turn are linked to both poverty reduction and climate change. At the same time, security policy challenges have changed in character. Threats are now coming from regional conflicts and terror, often originating from disintegrating countries. This creates opportunities for shaping a world in which the understanding of the necessary cooperation on common challenges such as economic growth, climate change, environmental degradation, poverty reduction and migration grows and overrides the right of self-determination and rivalry between ideologies and spheres of interest as a driving force. This perspective gives hope for a world that will be increasingly able to meet common challenges through cooperation and joint efforts, whether the challenges come in the form of acute crises, such as the financial crisis, the earthquake disaster in Haiti and Chile, or sneaking on cat pots, such as the climate challenge. If such a vision is to become a reality, then the international cooperation architecture needs to be redrawed, so that the new economic powers get their rightful place around the table in international organisations, with the UN family as the most important. That's just how we can integrate them into the globalised economy. That's just how we can make them take their share of responsibility for our common challenges: climate, environment, poverty and respect for human rights. When driving forces other than security policy are increasingly shaping the international landscape for all countries, it opens up opportunities for new initiatives in the field of disarmament, which have been almost abandoned in the last decade. Two important conventions, against landmines and class weapons, are exceptions for a decade that have otherwise become the lost decade of disarmament. Three important opportunities are opening up this year: the negotiations between the United States and Russia on a new START agreement, the revision of NATO’s strategy and the audit conference for the non-proliferation agreement. If these possibilities are exploited, disarmament work may be given a new boost. The ability of the countries to prevent the major disaster when the financial crisis hit, the new driving forces that shape the framework for foreign policy for all of us, and the new opportunities ahead of us in the field of nuclear disarmament, can – if used correctly – make these years a watershed. We can create a world in which the common interest of the countries overrides conflict and rivalry, a world in which we can move resources from armaments to the fight against poverty, climate change and human rights. Then future generations can look back on these years as the period that really laid the foundations of a world that is safer and better for everyone, a world where everyone bases Deng Xiaoping's words: we need peace with our neighbours for 100 years. Then I just want to comment briefly on Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide's call for themes. I take it as an expression that there is really a very wide dissension about the analyses and lines that the Foreign Minister drew up, because you will always be able to ask for themes that could be highlighted more strongly even in a statement that took an hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e249	The Head of the Foreign Affairs Committee addressed Iran as an important topic. I just want to say briefly that I share all of the considerations that were put forward. One of our biggest strategic challenges lies in the Arctic. You can sometimes get the impression that we're talking about an unregulated area here, but that's not the case. There is a good set of international driving rules to determine both sovereignty and behaviour in these vulnerable areas. There are good international forums for cooperation in the Arctic. This provides a good starting point for addressing important issues, whether they include new routes to Asia, resource management, environmental management, tourism or rescue services. The Arctic Council should be a central cooperation body, in which case it will be important to use this forum for all countries with legitimate interests — not necessarily all as members but at least as permanent observers. It is in our interest that the actors discuss Arctic policy within the same framework and that no one is excluded on a permanent basis. We hope the United States will ratify the International Convention on the Law of the Sea as soon as possible. This will be good for the Arctic, but not least it will also be in the interest of the United States. China is correctly given an important place in the presentation. China's role is central to the global economy, but also to the global political agenda. China challenges us, and we share the view that there is a need to cooperate widely. We are pleased that we are now seeking to negotiate a free trade agreement. But the statement is weaker in everything that is difficult with China. It is an affordable reference to the challenges of human rights. It is a challenge in all its interactions with China. But what about the more political demands we face from China? China wants to tie our policies in, for example. Who we're talking to. The warnings come very quickly when it comes to conversations with the Dalai Lama or others who are on the blacklist in Beijing. We experience that Norway and other countries are putting ties on in these contexts. The relationship with Taiwan is limited because it is not well received in China — despite the fact that China itself has softened the relationship. Here I believe that Norway has chosen a more restrictive line in its dealings with Taiwan than for example. our neighbouring country. There is room for better connections – without challenging the policy of one China. On such sensitive issues, clarity and predictability are important, and there should be room for coordination at a wider international level – this to show China that there are limits to how far a country can go in restricting our freedom to talk to, or having relations with, individuals or groups of people. Any kind of indulgence is perceived as a victory in Beijing, and will undoubtedly intensify the existing pressure. The emerging economies are positive. It testifies that millions of people are promised out of poverty and into the global economy. Competition is good. It all sharpens. But in one area we don't need competition, and it's within universal human rights. Here the UN Declaration of Human Rights is sacred, and when challenged as Western, we will reject it. Although it is appropriate to exhibit cultural sensitivity, there shall be no room for dilution of fundamental individual rights. They must be defended, even in the face of countries like China or Russia. In the presentation, it is a horizontal theme that the financial crisis poses challenges for Norwegian business. One way to meet this is this free trade agreement with China, which is to get the WTO agreement ready. While we're about to put in place relatively good trading conditions with almost all of the second most important economies, it's a big hole, and it's the United States – the very largest economy. We will ask the Government to evaluate the possibility of a free trade agreement with the United States. The benefits will be great, and the challenges for Norwegian agriculture will not be greater, in our opinion, than the challenges we are already facing, for example. WTO negotiations. Although the US is experiencing difficulties as a result of the financial crisis — and even though other countries, such as China and India, are taking a huge leap — the United States will undoubtedly be one of the world’s most important markets. And improved framework conditions for Norwegian business on this important market will make us less vulnerable and strengthen our export industry. We do not expect an answer to this today. We know that the question has been assessed by previous governments and has been put aside.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e262	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very good deal – so good that when I met Ole Kopreitan yesterday, a long-standing peace activist for No to nuclear weapons, I read several sections from the distribution for him. He thought the politicians were talking too much, and that there was too little commitment. But he also said that as he experienced it, there was an increasing peace exposure now again. And when I read the story, and a little bit from Soria Moria II, he said, maybe to the horror of someone in this room, that this wasn't very far away from what he had been working for for for many years. It's moving forward. The disarmament we experienced in the period from the end of the 1980s and a 15-year period in the future was very important and a lot of progress. Now we're still ahead of a period when we have new possibilities in that direction. And Norway's clear position now internationally will be important. At the same time, the debate here on disarmament and what is going to happen is an example of how the constellations of power change. For while a few decades ago could essentially say that it was the Soviet Union and the United States that could have arranged the rear, the new disarmament process would be wider – just as climate negotiations or the management of the financial crisis have been. I also want to use two words on the big picture, the Foreign Minister. Because the real driving force in it is demography and economics. A little century ago, over a third of the people in the world in North America and Europe offered. If we look at the population projections for 2050, that's going to be over 10 pst. of the world's population bu in Europe and North America. It's even more dramatic if we look at the economy. So in 1950, two thirds of the world's value added came from Europe and North America. If we look at the average growth rates in the world in the last few years – here there are probably huge error margins, but still – today we have less than 50 pst. of value added in the same range. By 2050 we can assume that it's less than 30 pst. of value added. In short, we are accustomed to Europe being, as well as the most important continent in the world and the transatlantic relationship, the most important thing. Very much indicates that it's a long way from reality in a few decades, and we're going deep into that process. That's why a strong focus on Asia and China, but also on Africa, a continent that's going to be in a raging development, and Latin America – in general, to inform us in all ways more globally. And then there's also more processes that are interesting here. The representative Svein Roald Hansen said, quite rightly, that we see a transition from security perhaps the most important driving force in international politics to economics. I share that view. But also ecology and resources, and I want to add – perhaps as a counterbalance to that economic orientation – religion and ideas are becoming stronger as driving forces in international politics, as I see it. All of this also points to the fact that the issue of international organisation is extremely central in the coming decades. We have to do everything we can to contribute to a better organized value. Then we have to think beyond the UN regionally – beyond G20, I share their opinions – but it's not going to get away from the fact that the key is a UN that has more weight, they want to set up, they're better organized and have more competence and resources to do their job. So I'm going to say in the end that the Middle East question is still going to be decisive, and it's unfortunately an area where we haven't made the progress we should have wanted. It is complex to find solutions, but it is not complex that UN decisions over decades have been broken by Israel, nor that land is occupied, that human rights are broken, or that Israel went into a brutal attack on Gaza. While a few years ago, the Israeli and Palestinian environments perceived that it was in their fundamental self-interest to arrive at a two-state solution to take care of their own security, it is not easy to see it the same way that the Israeli government perceives it that way today, on the contrary. Therefore, we need to have a debate in Norway, and Norway needs to take the lead in international debate on how to put greater power behind the demands, as well as having contact with the parties, and consider how to actually make the costs of an occupation and the policy that Israel is pursuing, greater than they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e275	Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre gave a good account of the crises that the world has been experiencing in recent years. One of several important elements for Gahr Støre was the development of the EU and the demanding choices of European leaders are now facing. My and the Central Party's starting point is that the objectives of all European nations should be: developing a complex business life to establish or maintain good welfare countries to ensure that the differences between people are reduced that private debt does not grow people at all With the euro and the Lisbon strategy as tools, your path is heavy. Common currency also means common monetary policy. It is challenging for countries with different natural backgrounds, production lives and very different welfare countries. In practice, the large countries will be guiding the system. By keeping wages and public expenditure down, Germany has been able to recover unemployment in the east in order to maintain its production and trade surplus. Greece has not had the same muscles and also used the growth to improve wages and pensions in what was one of Europe's poor outskirts. But the EU’s largest economy is also struggling with its development in GDP, budget deficits and debt. And on 11 March, The Economist calls for courageous structural reform in Germany. Germany needs to increase globalisation, it's called. Regulations are, according to the magazine, limiting, job protection is too rigid, the health, welfare and education sectors need major changes, and the service sector is underdeveloped. You don't have to be a free-market fantasy to think that it's hard to start and run business in Germany, or to worry that high taxes on health and well-being provide fewer low-paid service jobs, writes the magazine. The prescription that is described is social dumping put in system, less tax obligations for business, and, as we now see in Greece, cut wages, pensions, Community expenditure, increased taxes for ordinary people and weaker social security networks. The British are now responding to EU Commission impositions on them. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance who describes the proposals as aggressive and suitable to do irreparable damage to public service provision. In the fourth richest country in the world, about 1.3 million children live in extreme poverty – one in six children in London. In Spain, almost every other youth you have met in the street in winter has been unemployed. In Latvia, government employees' wages have fallen by 25 pst. The Economist is wrong. You just have to be a free-market fantasizer to accept that free movement and competition policy should overshadow all concerns of the equal man and woman. It'll be a downward spiral where you still have to subdue the other to survive. It was the private debt and housing bubble driven by aggressive lending activities that created the financial crisis that has now been fully triggered in the real economy. But the Stability Pact only emphasises public debt. The one-sided inflation target places strict limits on the ability to pursue cyclical policies and to protect real wages in those countries where necessary. French and German initiatives to prevent new crises by limiting the ability of the financial industry to offer fixed loan schemes have so far not been implemented. Common currency does not work in times of crisis when one does not have a common economic policy. There isn't a state fund to take crisis packages from. In the EU, therefore, it is now snowing on proposals both in terms of taxes and money funds which, through joint payments and governance rules, can ensure a tighter grip on the budgetary policies of the countries. The difference between EU integration, which would give us the euro on the purchase, and the right of self-determination outside the Union is today greater than it has ever been. Last week, NRK Spekter sent an interview with Thorvald Stoltenberg and Anne Enger about the EU match, where Anne asked Thorvald why he would not discuss the euro in 1994. He replied that it was due to the fact that the euro and the European Central Bank were not yet a reality and that there were enough realities to discuss. I think we are now making good sense in discussing possible prospects for EU development and giving our historical experience a weight in assessing what is realistic and not.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e320	Let me first thank the Foreign Minister for the statement, to which I have had to read for quite natural reasons. It provided a useful overview of how long-term changes in the world economy can affect international power conditions and thus also the framework conditions for Norwegian foreign policy. It was also the theme when the Stortinge dealt with St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009 on the broad lines of Norwegian foreign policy. I would therefore like to focus on a few points in which the Minister for Foreign Affairs made a more up-to-date and concrete comment on the issues in question. The first concerns the EU, and not least the euro. It is serious when two thirds of the EU Member States are currently under deficit procedures and are characterised by dangerous deficits, debt burdens and impaired competitiveness. The contrast is high to Norway’s strong financial position. The situation in the EU shows weaknesses in the solution chosen, namely the introduction of a monetary union that deprives national states of important instruments without providing the federal level with resources that can be stabilising. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is quite right that this raises challenges that the EU will pursue in the future, for there are internal tensions in an unresolved structural problem in the EU's economic union. The Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed the fear that, as a result of the financial crisis, restrictive measures could lead to countries cutting in climate finance and in defence and aid budgets. He pointed out that if aid is cut, the consequences can be serious for many of the world's poorest countries. That vision shares the Christian People's Party. I take his statements as a clear confirmation that the government will not propose relief shots here at home. It will give a completely wrong signal internationally about Norway — one of the countries with the least problems in the financial crisis — to solve its budgetary problems by weakening our aid to the poorest countries. Norway must be a driver of balanced disarmament between nuclear power and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. It is positive that the US and Russia are notifying a new START agreement on the interception of long-range nuclear weapons. Such a contribution will improve the basis for the Conference of Supervisors for the Non-Proliferation Agreement in May and strengthen the world community in its efforts to prevent new countries, such as Iran, from getting nuclear weapons. Another main aspect of the security policy concerns Afghanistan. We were many who before the elections noticed that SV signaled resistance to NATO and Norway's Afghanistan exposure. Now we take note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his presentation, dismisses such a thought. He said it as clearly as possible that Norway is fully behind NATO's efforts in Afghanistan. Otherwise, we from the Christian People's Party are not satisfied with the fact that the government has done nothing more to ensure the further operation of the field hospital in Chad after the UN has asked us to reconsider the matter because there are problems in getting others to take over. The government has promised to escalate the Norwegian civilian and military participation in the UN peacekeeping work, with special emphasis on Africa. Now, unfortunately, we can witness that the opposite happens. I ask the government to take an extra round to find a solution in this unfortunate case. In Northern Region policy, we have been united. In the issue of the legal status of the northern seas, the Maritime Law Commission is a solid foundation. We need determination to address climate and environmental challenges. The target of low voltage in the north is fixed. Such a holistic approach is also important in the long term in order to ensure the development and settlement of businesses in our northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e339	I would also like to begin by boasting first of the Foreign Minister's statement as a very good and informative description, and the financial crisis is a good one in assessing the foreign policy situation. What I'm probably missing is, in line with the representative Eriksen Soreide, a little more opinions, a little more messages about what the Norwegian role should be, and what we care about. I very much agree with the Foreign Minister's assessment of China's new role. I think it is frightening that we have a country with such a big economy, with such a great power internationally, challenging the role of the United States as the leading economy – and that that country is actually a dictatorship. It is a country that does not have the fundamental human rights, and it is a country that does not value democracy as a form of governance. I think that is worrying about international policy in general. I think raising democracy and human rights is important from a Norwegian perspective. The tension that we still see between the Arab world and Europe was also quite absent. There, the Iraq war has largely led to just one thing, namely that Iran has become a new, big player. Suffering if there is a regime that is faltering, I would like us to join in helping to shake the legs of those who are trying to make this regime shake on. A speech time of 5 minutes doesn't open up to get into such a long perspective, but there are a few moments I want to raise. The first is, of course, Afghanistan. The Foreign Minister has said that on the road to a political solution a military presence will be required. That's a statement I very much agree with. We in the Left believe that a lasting solution – a lasting peace, a peace one can live with – is, of course, a political solution that must be found. But for the political solution to come, military presence is very important. We cannot leave the Afghan people behind again. They have been abandoned by many before. The left, of course, supports the UN track. The UN track is important, especially for a country such as Norway. That's why we share the concern of the Christian People's Party regarding the field hospital in Chad. Norway cannot face a situation where we are involved in acts that threaten a UN operation. There must be a position that I hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs can stand behind – that this cannot be the starting point for the Norwegian state. Climate policy is also influenced by foreign policy power structures. The new power structures might come here even more so than they do in many other areas. Therefore, climate policy is not only an important international arena – it is also important to show responsibility nationally in order to be able to make an international impact. It's a confession that I think is missing in the government statement. Then finally to the northern regions. We in the Left actually believed in the government when they joined five years ago and said that the northern regions would be the big bet area. We've actually worked very hard on this inside the party to meet the government offensive. It hasn't been such a very hard job, because the offensive has let itself wait. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said at the end of his statement that there will be a message in the next three years, so that we will have the opportunity to discuss north-eastern politics in a broader forum here. I believe that you do not have to wait for a message to take any major grip in that area. I share that view, which there is a broad consensus about here in the hall, that we have the law in place. What should be required is that Norway assumes its role in, for example, emergency and rescue services and indicates that we have the capacity to exercise the powers under international law. It's an escalating government could start with today, in order to safeguard the Norwegian interests that we, according to international law, actually have. If we say that we have the authority we have, we must also show that we are able to perform rescue and emergency services in the areas where we believe we have authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e356	Thanks for the fact that the presentation is well read and understood. It was an attempt to draw up a broader framework for what Norway is facing today. Let me say that it is always possible – and I respect it – that you miss themes. But the choice of grip for the statement is so that we have to see what we're doing in the Storting, in the context. We have recently had interpellations in this Chamber on the Arctic, Sri Lanka and the human rights dialogues. We have had our own statement on Afghanistan, and we have EU/EEA statements twice a year. In the northern regions, we also have several presentations. Then it is that only a nine months ago we had a thorough discussion about Norwegian foreign policy as a result of St.meld. 15 for 2008-2009. There's the frames. The question we now have to ask ourselves, in a changing world, as a result of the financial crisis and shifts in power, is how our environment is changing – Norwegian interests are quite firm – and whether we also need new instruments. Who is taking the initiative in this new world situation? Who's on the offensive? How should we work to take care of basic Norwegian interests? It goes without saying that our relationship with Europe, the EU, our NATO membership and our Nordic neighbours, that the WTO succeeds in its work, that we have a good and close and trusting relationship with the United States over the Atlantic, and that we stand up for the United Nations – it is firm. But we have to work new. Let me use two examples – partly in response to the Foreign Affairs Committee’s questions: yesterday I had half an hour’s telephone conversation with my Indonesian colleague. It actually illustrates some of the possibilities and challenges we're facing. Indonesia is a candidate country. It's the world's largest Muslim country and a very constructive player in the international system. What was on our agenda? Cooperation on the fight for global health, cooperation on forest activities – the Prime Minister has invited the Indonesian President to Oslo in June in the context of a high-level meeting on forest – cooperation on the protection of the status of humanitarian law and the position of humanitarian law in war situations. It's not just an engagement we have in Europe. It's not just an engagement we have after Gaza, but it's also an engagement the ASEAN countries are raising, with Indonesia in the center. We can also cooperate with them. We also talked about cooperation on the fight against armed violence and what it does to development. So this is an attempt to build new, deep relations politically between a small country on the outskirts of Europe and a central country in the middle of Asia. The second example concerns the work of the UN Human Rights Council. The resolution adopted yesterday to defend human rights defenders is an example of new ways of working. For everyone knows that in that council there are states with very different emphasis from what we have. How are we going to work on raising international principles in such a forum? Well, we use new methods of working with like-minded people, not only closely on us, but also in other regions, to build consensus on something that can then be adopted. It became that declaration, and it was an important decision. Article 5 of the NATO Treaty is central to Norway’s security. I can tell the representative Eriksen Soreide that Norway's view is that this article should be most clean and clear. It should not be dependent on a special situation for a particular country. It should not be hampered by a special challenge, which thus sets other challenges aside. It is the ultimate guarantee of security: one for all, all for one. The strategic concept will then describe the threat picture and the scenario in 2010, just as it was last done in 1999. There must be nuances in it. That I think this work is going to give the opportunity. So it's like this, to go into our time, that the Arctic is central to Norway. I attend a meeting in Canada on Monday among the coastal states. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Höglund, that this type of meeting does not have to be produced or carried out in any way in such a way that it distorts the work of the Arctic Council. We want Arctic Council as a seat for commitment to Arctic issues. I think that is also a vision we share with, among other things. The United States, and as I'm going to repeat in the meeting on Monday. But the coastal states around the Arctic have a special responsibility. Then I have to ask myself wondering and rejecting the representative of Skei Grande's claim that Norway is not doing anything for preparedness and rescue in the north. We're the drivers of this international. We are now working on a search and rescue concept where Norway is at the front, and we have also improved our own capacity. We have a lot of work to do around this, also in this room. Finally, I would just like to say in the case of Chad: Norway has not withdrawn from Chad. Norway terminates — according to the announced plan — the mission we carried out. Of course, we are going to work with the UN, along with Nigeria, which can now assume a responsibility, and everyone else, to ensure that transition is as smooth and as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e373	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e377	The report sets out the possibilities for new sanctions targeting Iran as a result of the nuclear programme. When former Peace Prize winner Shirin Ebadi was in Oslo a short time ago, she just raised the problem that the nuclear programme has become a sort of lightning diversion that the international community has all the attention around, while there is a brutal, oppressive regime in Iran that commits the most serious violations of human rights. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree with this consideration? Does he see that the basis for sanctions/policy measures can be taken completely independently of the nuclear programme and on a more human rights-based basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e384	First, I want to say that we systematically point out these human rights violations. I believe – if you ask in Tehran – that Norway is among the countries that are very clear on it, both in Tehran and in Oslo. The question is really quite hypothetical. I guess I'm more doubtful that a sanctions regime – completely independent of what's happening on the nuclear side – is a realistic scenario in a UN context. There are, unfortunately, several states that commit serious violations of human rights. I think introducing a comprehensive sanction regime graduated from all of them will be demanding. But it does not deny, with the focus on Iran and the nuclear programme, that it is a forceful theme to have attention to now. We have to deal with the IAEA's assessment. It is only those who can give us meaningful assessments of the programme – and unfortunately Iran has not been able to disprove these suspicions. That is why I said in the statement that this matter is on the way to the Security Council. That's where it belongs, too. We're going to hope that it gets as wide anchored as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e391	I am grateful for the answer, but I am not quite satisfied. Shirin Ebadi says that sanctions that affect the population are not dependent on her. Political sanctions may have something in common because they hit the regime. Among other things, we have have had such sanctions against Zimbabwe and against other countries where travel restrictions are being considered. Norway has a vote in the Schengen cooperation. Introducing travel restrictions aimed at particular people could have been an instrument, and working to limit trafficking in pepper spray, tear gas, etc., as we know is being used by the police against demonstrators – there are many things you could put on the agenda internationally to meet the regime in an offensive way. We know, among other things: that the Iranian embassy in Oslo has not had an ambassador in place here in one and a half years. We have a fully operational embassy in Iran. It shows an inequality in the emphasis of cooperation. How will the Foreign Minister attack this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e400	At first I think we deserve to have an ambassador in Tehran. It strengthens our reporting, and it strengthens our weight to gain access in Iran. I don't think there's any point in learning from the Iranian example in Oslo when it comes to it. Our distance from the regime is very clear. Once again, it'll be a little hypothetical to discuss what kind of sanctions you could imagine if it wasn't a nuclear matter. Now it's a big nuclear thing. It's a very central theme that we have to address. Then we can discuss the effect of political or financial sanctions on regimes that have practices that we don't like. I can count on more than two hands, unfortunately, regimes that are of that category. I think it opens up quite problematic issues if we are to create Norwegian sanctions regimes against all of them. But we have to use all the international arenas to put international human rights on the agenda, respect for universal human rights, and in cases where the violations are serious enough, I am also open to discussions on sanctions, but then they should be anchored in the UN Security Council and apply to more than one individual country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e407	The Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke about his next week's meeting in Ottawa for the five coastal states of the Arctic Ocean. At the same time, the Minister for Foreign Affairs underlined: ‘Arctic Council is the Central Arctic Cooperation Organisation. Norway wishes the Arctic Council to reaffirm its role as a policy-making body for Arctic issues.’.» When the first coastal State meeting was held in Ilulissat, it met with concern from the three other Member States Sweden, Iceland and Finland, and indigenous representatives of the Arctic Council felt neglected. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that there may be a tension between the Ilulissat Cooperation and the Arctic Council? How do we jointly achieve the best in our declared objectives of Arctic Council being the most important body for Arctic issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e417	The answer to the question is yes, under given circumstances there may be such a tension. The answer to whether we settle down on it is: No. It should not be such a voltage. Therefore, it is Norway's view that the Arctic Council must be headquartered. Are the three countries that are not included concerned about this? The answer I think in part is yes. Is it from indigenous organizations? I also believe that the answer to this is, in part, yes — not particularly in Norway, but perhaps especially in other countries. That is why, on Monday, I would like to say that, yes, the coastal states have certain themes that it is perfectly legitimate for them to discuss, which are about the responsibilities of the coastal states according to the law of the sea and coordination and coordination of it. We should not deprive ourselves of the opportunity, either politically or at the level of office, to be able to discuss it. But we should not do it in such a way that doubts are raised or tensions are created within the Arctic Council, which is now gaining legitimacy and attention as the leading circumpolar arctic body. So that balance is going to be equal to that balance. I don't imagine there's going to be a lot of meetings at this level, it's in the Arctic Council we have to concentrate our work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e422	The Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his presentation, had some considerable problems with the situation around the G20 countries, where he also commented on the legitimacy of the G20 countries. At the same time, the Foreign Minister, as I understood him, expressed a desire to give the G20 countries greater legitimacy and to obtain Nordic participation in this institution. This is probably an idea that our Nordic neighbouring countries, who believed to be well served through other institutions, have so far given a rather negative feedback. Does the Foreign Minister think that a Nordic participation, and a Nordic solution, under the G-20 umbrella are really to be considered a relevant solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e429	First of all, we've been discussing this topic in the Nordic circuit for the last three and a half years, and I feel that we now have quite a lot of common vision. It is true that the Nordic EU countries indirectly participate in the G20 through the European Commission, the EU President, etc., but they also record that countries such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany, etc. will be a member as a country. I believe that the European countries and the Nordic countries must accept the entry of the new emerging economies. They'll have their place at the table. However, a representative grip in the G20 — through a constituencies model, not increasing it by more than three to four pieces in that forum — could ensure a much better spread and representativeness. The Arab countries are not included – organized. The African countries are not included – organized. And I think the Nordics in that context, as big contributors as we are, should be able to claim that we should also be able to have a vote when these issues, which are so important to us, are discussed. So yes, this is a view Norway is going to continue to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e436	It's tempting to pursue the northern regions, because if you think that everything in rescue and preparedness that is complete and clear, fit for fight, that's new information for me. But what I want to follow up is something that's more acute, and that's Chad. I just want an insurance from the Council of State: everyone in this room knows that there is no withdrawal – there is a termination, which was planned. What I want an insurance from the Council of State for is that if the planned closure, as Norway had planned, threatens the UN operation that is there, will Norway be able to continue its involvement in Chad? Or do you hold on to a deadline no matter what happens to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e443	It is now being worked by the United Nations — and Norway contributes to it — to find a good solution to this issue in the future. The main reason Norway does not extend this mission is that we do not believe it will be time for Norway to be able to train, equip and recruit for an extension, depending on how far it has now come in a liquidation that has already been prepared and under preparation. It is not that Norway can throw itself around and say that we operate the hospital anyway. But what the UN can be sure of is that Norway will be an active contributor, a participant, in facilitating the best possible solution in the future. State Secretary Barth Eide in the Ministry of Defence was in Chad this week and had such conversations, and the UN knows Norway well enough to know that we are going to do what we can to contribute. But in the case of the field hospital, it is set up for one year, and the winding-up is in progress. There's going to be a rainy day, and both equipment and people are going out in an orderly way. Then you will have to discuss and contribute to the intermediate solutions that are needed to ensure that there is a proper health service in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e450	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e454	At first, I too would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good and thorough presentation. It provided a very good overview of the challenges facing international society in the light of the financial crisis. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was also so much concerned with the subject that I want to address, namely the situation in the Middle East. The recent turbulence between Israel and the United States makes the matter very topical, and as I see it, we now have a very serious situation. I have been concerned about the Palestinians' case and situation for many years, and I have been following developments in the region very closely since the late 1980s. I have been on many visits, both in Israel and in the occupied areas of Gaza and the West Bank as well as in the countries around me. And I have to say that it's just as depressing to go down every time. The reason for this is that developments, especially between Israel and the Palestinians, are obviously going in the wrong direction. This is a conflict that affects the whole region. The occupation of the Palestinian territories continues, despite the fact that the world community clearly states that a two-state solution is the only dangerous way to go, and that the occupation will end. The parties stand far apart, and we have a political development that almost makes a solution impossible. The Israeli Government is now putting a future peace process completely on hold. And the way they do it is to add to a large-scale construction of new settlements in East Jerusalem, which – as the Foreign Minister also pointed out in his statement – will close East Jerusalem out of the future Palestinian State and make it impossible to achieve a realistic two-state solution. If there is to be a solution between the parties, there must also be a solution for Jerusalem. Both parties want the city as their capital, but instead of paving the way for a reasonable future sharing of the city, the Israelis take slowly, but surely over the city. I have many Palestinian friends living in East Jerusalem. They dwell on the current policy and have for a long time also doubted the construction of the wall – a wall that many of us did not think we would see again after the fall of the Berlin Wall. The question now is: what can international society do? What can Norway do? The international community condemns settlements in clear order, and the United States has never been as clear as it is now. They clearly say that this is totally unacceptable. And we do the same thing. What Israel is now doing is in violation of international law, but it's provoking. I have to admit that I can understand those who shout at boycott and break diplomatic relations – not because I necessarily think it's the right way to go, but because I understand the frustration and powerlessness you feel when Israel doesn't care about what someone says. Norway has had, and has, a great commitment to the Middle East conflict, and we are clear and clear in the policy. Norway is also the leader of the Palestinians’ countrygroup, which is due to meet next month. I want us, together with other countries, to step up efforts to put pressure on Israel, both in terms of the unsustainable blockade of Gaza, which leads to great human suffering, and in terms of housing policy. And we have to evaluate all the instruments. We cannot accept Israel's relieving itself in a way that jeopardizes the whole peace process. We live simply in a time of fate in view of the future of the whole region. I am not an enemy of Israel, I want the Israelis to be able to live safe lives in their own state. But they will never get the security they want if the conflict is not resolved. It is the strongest party that must take the first step towards peace, not go in the opposite direction. I am a critical friend of Israel. I'm also a critical friend of Palestine. I don't think the political developments in Gaza are good, I don't think extremism serves the cause of the Palestinians, but I don't think you get rid of extremism by letting people live the fence under totally unacceptable conditions either. Keeping a whole people down will strengthen hostility and make it even more difficult for both Israelis and Palestinians in the future to live side by side. I have to say, unfortunately, that I do not think the situation now looks bright. I really hope that the next time we discuss the Foreign Minister's statement, we may have some positive moves to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e476	I would also like to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for the statement, which was a straightforward description of the state of things. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs raised Norway’s relationship with Europe and the EU, and I do not exaggerate if I say I could trace some concern over the economic situation in Europe. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, Europe is our largest export market, and it also has consequences for Norway if the euro should be weakened. We have now heard that Greece, Spain, Portugal, Italy and Ireland have major economic problems. The Progress Party does not believe that this alone is due to the financial crisis, for some of these countries have been running double books long before that. But that it has consequences now that the problems are revealed, says itself. The fact that Member States of the European Union are actually at risk of going bankrupt is, in itself, quite alarming, and there will probably also have consequences for Norway’s export businesses acting in euro, when there is a debt crisis and an unstable euro in the EU. Yesterday, the EU discussed the problems around Greece, and there is no consensus between the EU and Greece on the issue. Germany does not want to pay the bill, and will have the IMF on the track. Fortunately, however, we see that Greece is being apprehended and that both the European Commission and the European Central Bank are following developments closely. It can also – after yesterday’s meeting – look as if they have come up with an agreed solution for Greece, fortunately. However, there can be no doubt that the EU has more than enough with itself in the future, until they have found a solution to some major challenges. But it is not just the old democracies that are struggling economically. We also see that in Eastern Europe the problem is great. This should perhaps worry us more, partly because we know that welfare models are a relatively unknown concept in the new democracies, and partly because there is a great deal of poverty in these countries. It can have consequences such as increased trafficking and organised crime also to Norway. Poverty and distress are perhaps the main contributors to trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking and other organised and borderless crime. But there can also be consequences such as increased emigration, as we see in Moldova – the competence moves out of the country, there is greater need among minorities and poor people, and no human capital remains to build the country. Many of these countries are also not members of the EU and therefore cannot ask for rescue packages. We need to be alert for the financial crisis to make countries in the peripheral zone of Eastern Europe a protectionist and perhaps also flirt with political ideologies that do not belong in Europe in 2010. It is therefore very important that these countries, which face major political and economic challenges, are also included in the European Community and in the global market. Richard Cobden's idea was that the stronger states are linked by mutual trading ties, the more the population has to lose on the destruction of the war. This is as relevant today as it was in the 1840s. Not only will it give these countries the opportunity to strengthen their economies, but it will also create a safer Europe in the long term. The Progress Party hopes that the Foreign Minister will follow developments in Eastern Europe closely and that Norway will be able to contribute if the economic crisis develops further. Finally, I would like to say a little about Russia. Russia is a large and powerful neighbour, who also has economic challenges. Norway should take this seriously. We are of the opinion that we must be in dialogue with Russia in all the forums we can, so that they are not given the opportunity to isolate themselves, because it can have serious consequences. It is obvious that Russia wants to get foreign investors to the country to get a swing on its economy. But Norway as a country must also show that we dare to demand predictability in the country – and not as we experienced it in the Telenor case. That's not exactly how you invite foreign investors into your country. Another thing that we, as a nation and a neighbour of Russia, should stress in all respects the importance of is Russia's violation of human rights. We have to take a sharp distance from this. It's now that respect isn't something you get, it's something you deserve. It is still a long way to leave Russia worthy of respect in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e491	There are 16 countries involved in euro-cooperation, and the current crisis clearly shows that euro-area countries are no merged union. Unfortunately, it is too much of its own interests that are ahead of the interests of monetary union. Greece has gone on a click. Greece has lived beyond its ability for a long time. Now the bill is coming. The country entered a coin union with a false flag. The figures were systematically cheated — yes, the entire defence budget was kept out of the state budget on the grounds that these figures were secret. Then it is not nice to reach the EU's 3 pst. goal. Even in good times, it turns out that Greece has had a budget deficit of over 10 p.m. Last year, the actual budget deficit of 12.7 p.m., previously reported to be an estimated 3 to 4 p.m., has been the norm of the corresponding central statistical agency and the Ministry of Finance in Greece. This is well expressed by Prime Minister Papandreou's statements on Greek television yesterday. He said, "The efforts of the Greek people are rewarded." If this happens, it will be the end of euro cooperation. If a practice is created that you can live with ability, live with other people's money, and then someone else comes and takes the bill afterwards, it is clear that there will be no euro cooperation in 10 or 20 years, unfortunately. I am fundamentally in favour of euro-cooperation. I think it creates a stable, large currency that we can also benefit from, but then we need a real monetary union that has a common understanding and that is based on a common inflation target. The Greeks are now left with two instruments: one is the introduction of increased taxes and the other is the reduction of public expenditure. But the Greeks don't take big enough grip, they don't even get out of the crisis. We are well aware of our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland, which took vigorous action when the crisis hit. We see that Ireland has cut public wages by 15 pst., Latvia by 25 pst. – and the Greeks are out in the streets throwing stones as they now cut their wages in the public sector by 7 pst. I understand the frustration that Erna Solberg experienced yesterday at the EPP meeting with the Heads of Government from Røre's sister parties. But the feedback must be clear: the IMF must be involved in the stabilisation of the country, but the majority must be taken by the Greeks themselves. This is not a political problem that can be given either the socialists or the conservatives; it is a Greek problem well-judged Spaniards, Italians and others who are not like what the English call ‘prudent’, as for example. Germans and others. When conservatives lost their elections in 2009, there was, of course, a significant degree of dissatisfaction with forest fires, economic crisis and corruption. VG estimates that on average, every Greek person pays NOK 10 000 in corruption annually. They may well have just been turned off by Bulgaria and Romania in terms of being corrupt within the EU system. Back to politics. We need the conservatives and socialists in Greece to dare become unpopular, dare to stand against the storm that takes place in the streets. They need to know that the IMF has to be there with stabilisation — but the debt has to be repaid. And we actually need a well-functioning Euro-cooperation, including in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e510	I want to start by saying, what was most important in the good report that the Minister of Foreign Affairs gave here a few days ago? I believe the most important thing and in particular the new, although it is old news, was that economic crises affect international development quite significantly. What we now see is what was very heavy in the presentation, that what we call the financial crisis, can create both social crises and political crises in many countries. There are many speakers in front of me here who have taken up the examples from the European continent, and they are dramatic. They're dramatic in Greece, they're dramatic in Iceland, we see it in Spain, yes, we should not go further than to Sweden to see significant economic challenges and up to 10 pst. unemployment. We see the fall in gross domestic product from 7 to 8 pst. for closer to 20 pst. in the Baltic countries. This is very dramatic for anyone who understands it. Increased budget deficits also reduce the possibility of a European policy for new economic growth. The high level of debt in Europe creates a high level of long-term convergence and may result in a slowdown in the development of well-being. This in combination with unemployment of 10 p.m., which actually represents 23 million people in Europe, and an ageing population, can lead to social arrangements being put under pressure and resulting in social unrest. Countries can get more than enough with themselves, and international involvement can be reduced. The crisis has clearly shown us that we need to strengthen our internationally committed cooperation. We need to help build stronger and robust states, and we need to show that a social-democratic mixed economy is doing much better in both good times and bad. But above all, the financial crisis has shown us that pure market thinking and liberalism create a more unstable and unsafe world. A lot of people recognize this, but not all. The Progress Party represents the Norwegian liberalist thinking. The lot's dimensions are clear. The leader, Siv Jensen, has said on several occasions that they will be in government, is the goal of implementing market thinking at all levels. If there is any financial crisis and now the international challenge has shown us, it is that we do not need this policy. We don't need market foundations. What we need is a government working with people to secure jobs and to secure the Norwegian economy, as the Government does. In this way, international economic policies have also become international policies. Why talk about this in a debate here in the United Kingdom about the foreign policy situation? Yes, because this liberalist policy is a policy we are working against both internationally and nationally, but above all because evolution shows that this liberalist thinking is precisely the main cause of the new crisis development in the Western world, or, even more dramatically, but it is coverage for it – the people's power should not stand in the way of the unregulated market, claims the liberals. Yes, Vice President Per Sandberg called it – and it was a bit slowed down, but there's no reason to laugh – Bush's socialism policy. There's nothing to laugh about, because it shows what basic thinking we're looking at in these areas. Now what's important to do? Well, we have to conclude our policy by saying that we need closer and more committed international cooperation. We need clearer and clearer regulation of the international financial market, and we need to tie the tax havens once and for all. And nationally: we need a strong and economically robust state, we need a strong and healthy market economy in combination with a universal and large public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e527	With all possible respect – the previous speaker might have finished his post with a little hallelujah at the end. But I'll leave it. What has been interesting in today's debate has been the fact that many of the things that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has mentioned in his statement are, of course, quite in agreement. He pointed out some areas that are crucial for Norway as a nation in terms of who are our main partners, who are challenging us, and how we can find useful and sensible balance points, and not least the alliance partners, in order to achieve the goals that are important to us as a nation, while participating in international cooperation. I welcome that, and I think that is very good. Through foreign policy, it is also important to focus on part of our national security policy. In this respect, I want to draw attention to the role of NATO and NATO. It is possible that this does not come as a surprise, but nevertheless it is important, at my discretion. One of the challenges facing NATO is to wear off between Member States when it comes to assessing their own ability to deliver, excellence, and to meet what are the pervasive individual requirements of member nations. I have a perception that it is variable if you are at all fully able to fulfil your obligations. There is a discussion about it in budgetary terms, and there is a discussion about it simply in terms of resources. But the most important thing is that if we mean anything by being a NATO member, we have to deliver, and we have to set up. Norway does. At the same time, unfortunately, we as a nation sometimes have to say no to enquiries we would like to accept. We're not doing it based on maybe two primary relationships. One is that we don't have the human resources available at all times, the other is the costs around it. I still think you should keep that tab very high, because it matters how the other NATO countries look at us. There are a few other things that I also think are important. It's America's relationship with the rest of the NATO countries. I think the United States in many ways feels that they have to bear too much of the burden, and that other countries are evading responsibility. I think Norway should also be aware of that and have clear views on it. Another challenge is, in my view, the relationship between NATO and the EU. Many of the major European NATO countries are also EU countries, and sometimes I am not sure if they are very aware of which of the two roles they are most irritating, especially when they are trying to get dressed at the same time. Then at least I find it difficult sometimes, not least when Stortinget worked with Kåre Willoch's proposal on social security and vulnerability, in 2002, if I don't remember completely wrong. It turned out that the EU and NATO were running parallel. That is, I would say, poor use of resources. I think it is important that Norway continues to work with NATO. We get good shots, we have good people, and we do an effort of which there is great respect. I also think it is important in a debate like this to draw attention to Afghanistan. For our part, there is at least no doubt that Afghanistan policy will remain firm. There has also been no doubt about it from our side. There are other parties in the government that have been more questionable to the sense of it and to where to go. In a debate like this, of course, I have to say a few words about the northern regions for safety reasons, if not otherwise to please the members of the committee, as this is an important topic. It's important based on several factors. It's important because it's about part of our nation -- it's part of the realms of sovereignty -- and it's important because it's an area that's becoming more and more interesting to the world community. Then at least I think that the resources that are there are, it's natural that Norway focuses closely, because we guarantee to have our share of it. At the same time, we also want to have good alliances, so that when we are going to use the resources that exist there, we do it in a proper and good way. In order to achieve this, it is likely that the most important thing is to show the sovereignty of the Norwegian state. Then we are back to the framework conditions, for example. to the Defence regarding the Coast Guard capabilities. I have to say that I find it worrying to register that the Coast Guard believes that the job you would like to see done is not done. I think that's scary, and that gives a bad signal. I think every time there's a debate here at home about things we don't get to, it notices by others, just like when there's things we actually succeed with. In some contexts, I think vulnerability is much worse to get attention around than the opposite. In this way, I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will continue his good work to focus strongly on the north, so that we can actually have a heavy, strong and clear hand on the steering wheel when the North Region policy is to be developed further.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e555	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for an important and good presentation earlier this week. It was very good that the Foreign Minister drew up the broad lines of the financial crisis and the economically difficult situation in which it is located, and what consequences it will have for international cooperation, but also for each person affected by it. Here, Norway is in the unique position that we still manage to maintain 1 pst. of our gross domestic product in aid cooperation and assistance. It's very joyful. We see that other organisations' transfers are now being significantly reduced due to the crisis. I want to talk about a very important thing that the Minister of Foreign Affairs was also involved in his presentation, namely this with the tax havens. The consequences, if we build up under these systems, can be serious for the world's poorest countries, where the lack of social security networks and rising food prices make job losses a struggle for life. Economic crime is a growing and serious social problem. In order to succeed in the fight against economic crime, broad cooperation is needed at national and international level. Tax exemptions result in loss of revenue for the public. We know that when large values escape the public, each of us is affected by these crimes. Economic crime also creates unfortunate distortions of competition in business and weakens confidence both in public administration and in business players. Whether it is on purpose or not, there is no doubt that tax havens play a key role in facilitating international tax evasion. It is difficult to quantify tax evasion/capital flow, but these are incomprehensible amounts. Nor do we have exact figures on how much money is kept hidden from Norwegian tax authorities abroad, but that there is talk of billions, there is probably no doubt about it. So the question is, can we eliminate the tax havens? It'll be hard. Probably we can't, but we can limit the problem that they're causing. «Abolition them» is probably a bit drastic, but we can do a bit to improve this unfortunate situation. However, international cooperation and pressure are necessary to influence the internal structures of tax havens. We participate, among other things: active in the OECD's efforts to counteract and prevent harmful tax competition. The financial crisis has exposed the vulnerability of society as a whole to a market without adequate governance and control. In the wake of the crisis, a new international debate has emerged on the need for political governance of market forces and the transparency of economic power relationships such as interests and transactions. As a result, work on transparency in so-called tax havens has intensified. It's very important. A new deal has come now, through the new regime of the United States and the work of the G20 countries. Weakness in the will of rich countries to respond to poverty can increase global tensions between rich and poor countries. The global financial crisis has helped to widen the gap between the poor and the rich. Only in the last year has there been 100 million more hungry and undernourished, and about 64 million more people live below the limit of extreme poverty in 2010. Illegal capital flows, often channelled through tax havens, also constitute, as I used to be, a significant obstacle to economic and social growth in many developing countries. This has become clearer during the financial crisis. Putting these international agreements in place is very important in the process of stopping Norwegian taxpayers who are trying to hide capital positions and income from tax authorities. The G20 and OECD pressures have dramatically increased the willingness of tax havens to negotiate in the last year. It's very happy. This shows that through international cooperation and pressure, tax havens can be combated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e583	I would also like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for one, as usual, interesting, committed and insightful explanation. According to the OECD, the world’s donor country will spend SEK 642 billion on aid to the Third World in 2010. Of these, Norway contributes 27 billion kroner. This is 4.2 pst. The population of Norway is 0.7 per million of the world's population. That means we use 60 times as much per. builds up as the world average. The use of such an enormous budget line must be followed closely. Unfortunately, there is reason to criticise the government’s management of the aid billions. Firstly, the aid is lubricated too thinly. In 2009, about half of the world’s countries received assistance. 100 countries. Norway should also focus on a few countries, get to know these countries well and provide well-off assistance to bring these countries up to a decent level. Rather, we will have to negotiate some agreements with other donor countries, which will focus on the countries that Norway cuts out, against not being so heavy within the countries we choose to prioritise. Secondly, the fight against corruption is given too little weight. According to the magazine Aid Current, last year the Ministry of Foreign Affairs received 101 new cases of corruption for treatment. Most of them were in charge of assistance. I believe that the extent of corruption in many of the recipient countries makes the aid meaningless. Economic growth and development of wealth and well-being are impossible when the country's authorities are characterised by corruption. Unfortunately, budget support and other aid to corrupt dictatorships also help corrupt dictators continue to defraud their countries. Thirdly, the weighting is wrong with regard to the relationship between resource use and the achievement of results. The government is proud that the appropriations for assistance have come up in 1 pst. of Norway’s gross national income. This shouldn't be a goal in itself. It's more important what money is spent on than spending as much money as possible. Fourth, for many small projects, more important actions are losing priority. In a response to the financial fraction of the Progress Party of 15 October last year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reports that Norway will spend less than 5 million on a total of 770 projects. kr for each. A total of 123 projects are carried out with a framework of less than 500000 kroner. It gets a comedian’s cut when Norway is to be responsible for preserving the folk dances of plantation workers in Sri Lanka and that Norway is to pay for a book fair in Asmara, Eritrea. Fifthly, the government is not adequately concerned with aid efficiency. Norway was an active driver of the Paris Declaration in 2005. The most important thing was to enable developing countries to exercise effective leadership over their own development policies and to coordinate development actors. In response to the representative, Mr Voksdal, on 9 March last, the Council of State, Erik Solheim, wrote that Norway is active in the international aid efficiency process and referred to the Paris Declaration. Now the Paris Declaration is forgotten – the government has failed here too. Sixth, we don't know if the help works. The government did not want to carry out a real evaluation of the aid work and the use of the aid billions. NORAD has been reporting on Norwegian aid for the last three years. But neither the method nor the extent of the information collected is nearly adequate. It makes it difficult to identify the misuse of resources and even more difficult to control resource use against the main needs. Seventh, last, but not least: too much money is spent. EUR 27.4 billion is the 2010 aid budget. It is more than Norway's budget for transport, what is used on roads, railways, airports, postal services, telecommunications and grants for public transport in our own country. That's a strange priority. The progress party will do this quite differently. The aid policy of the Progress Party consists of the following main elements: the first is that poor countries should receive assistance, but we will attach strict demands to aid. The recipient countries need to develop democracy, human rights, the market economy and free trade, so that countries gradually free themselves from the dependence on financial subsidies. Secondly, we must be very hardy in our demands to combat corruption. Corruption is an obstacle not only to democracy but also to the security and prosperity of ordinary people. Assistance shall not be a permanent solution but a temporary self-help.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e609	The Dutch author the Doolard once said: ‘The only guarantee that everyone will continue to live is respect for life, respect for one’s fellow human beings, and respect for those who are different from one’s own. Every one of us is an Atlas, every man carries the earth on his shoulders." Much is right in what the Doolard said. If we stop caring about each other and respect each other, we lose everything. Foreign policy in practice, with respect to reporting, is sometimes airy and dwindling. It's about setting political goals, conducting conversations, meetings, adopting resolutions, running processes, having a capacity to compromise and rule in an increasingly cohesive world. It is about caring for Norwegian interests abroad, but it is also about more. It's about contributing beyond personal gain, beyond self-interest. It's about a commitment to want to make a difference in the world. Sometimes I have thought about foreign policy that it is a little difficult to access, and that it is also sometimes difficult to involve people most. But that's where I've been wrong. The last time I was reminded of it was Wednesday, when I heard about the cow Miss Norway. Kua Miss Norway was the first cow to be given to a Ugandan family through social entrepreneurship, and is an example of what people's commitment contributes to. The collection of NOK 4000, made by engaged women in Telemark, gave a cow to a Ugandan family – as simple as that. Today there are many cows in Uganda, and Miss Annicken, named after the Council of State Annicken Huitfeldt, is one of them. It's amazing! The Women Kan course is another example of what foreign policy can mean in everyday life. People-to-people cooperation across borders, between women, makes important contributions to democracy building, cultural understanding and development in now 26 countries. But not least: when Norwegian women leave, take courses, come home and share what they have experienced with others, this contributes to knowledge, it brings joy, valuable commitment and competence back to the community of Norway. After the earthquake in Haiti, we've seen lots of concerts, collections, waffle sales and other engagements for people in Haiti to get emergency and long-term help. Foreign policy is part of the everyday life of people in Norway. The sum of this commitment provides a good platform for Norwegian foreign policy and a policy broadly anchored in the Stortinget. The world is in a very serious financial crisis, and the financial crisis affects foreign policy. The need for stronger control of financial markets is evident. Large budget deficits in very many countries lead to cuts in national budgets that lead some also to cuts in the rights of their own citizens' welfare systems. This also leads to cutbacks in aid to the poor world. When the money that a country has at its disposal is reduced, it is easier to cut in what does not affect one’s own national population in the short term. This is an important recognition for us in a country that has not been freed but that has proven to be well compared to others. When 60 million jobs can disappear in the world because of the financial crisis, it reinforces an already unfair world. There's enough resources and wealth in the world. It's just so insanely misdistributed. Unfair trading conditions and a financial policy in the world that favours a few at the expense of the many cannot be defended. But there are ways out of it. Control and supervision of financial markets, the fight against tax havens, the fight against financial crime, fair trade, demands for a safe working environment, support for trade unions and an organised working life are important keywords. In addition, there is a need for a strong and effective UN, a strengthened human rights dialogue, a strengthening of the basis of health and education assistance in the world. A global world requires global solutions. Technology, communication, trade, education, capital, labour market, yes, religion – everything is international. Norwegian foreign policy shall take care of Norwegian interests and values in a world of rapid change. Norway shall be a driver of the fight against poverty and human rights, in international environmental work, contribute to the building of a better and more organised world, and to the prevention and resolution of conflicts. We will give priority to the areas where we can make a difference – a great task for a small country, even though we have one of the world's best foreign ministers. Let me not least underline the point, which the minister was also talking about: all the policies are local, and the example of Kua Miss Norway is an example of that. It is important that the Norwegian people can contribute and that we facilitate people-to-people cooperation across borders. So Norwegian popular involvement can become Miss Norway in Uganda.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e642	The Foreign Minister made a good statement, and a very long statement. And indeed, from some today there is a point made out of something he did not get mentioned in the statement! I even believe President Fidel Castro in his glamour days did not get into all the conditions of Cuba and international sails if he stayed on for both 10 and 20 hours. I would like to talk about what was the line of the Foreign Minister's presentation: the effects of the financial crisis and how this will affect the foreign and security policy itself. Other crises and other wars have changed the international framework. After World War I and the subsequent Treaty of Versailles, we got the League of Nations. The 1930s crisis resulted in Bretton Woods institutions. After World War II, we got the establishment of the United Nations, we got the Atlantic Pact and NATO, and then a stronger European cooperation with the establishment of European institutions. How will the financial crisis affect Norway and Europe this time? Let us be aware that two thirds of EU countries are now deficiting their government budgets. The financial crisis has exacerbated the economic problems that have also existed in many countries in the past. There has been a lot of focus on the Baltic countries, naturally, from the Norwegian side, and in Greece, but let us not forget that large machines in the European economy, such as Germany and the United Kingdom, are also heavily affected by the financial crisis. A shattering Europe is not good for Norway. Europe is Norway's largest export market. Failing Europe, it has consequences for the fishing industry in Finnmark, the yard industry in Hordaland and the IT industry in Akershus. No matter what we think of Norwegian membership of the European Union, it is an advantage for Norway to succeed in its efforts. It is an advantage for Norway, the Norwegian krona, the Norwegian export industry and Norwegian jobs that the euro is stable and stable. That is why yesterday yesterday we received a good news from Brussels when Chancellor Merkel and President Sarkozy agreed on an agreement on a financial security network for Greece, where the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, will play a central role. And once again we see the line: the IMF, which came as a result of the Bretton Woods and the crisis of the 1930s, now plays an important role for Greece and other countries. Prime Minister Papandreou is satisfied – although satisfied is probably not the correct concept, he has at least accepted the solution. It has been important for Germany to find a solution for Greece. The relationship between Germany and Greece has an interesting and, I would say, some difficult history. During World War I Greece declared war on Germany. During World War II, Germany, together with Italy and Bulgaria, occupied Greece. Fortunately, the world is moving forward. Today we do not need to use war and power, because we have built up international frameworks and institutions. European countries are currently in a community of interests. All countries have a common interest in their success. As Willy Brandt said when the wall fell: Now it grows together, what belongs together: «Now it grows together together what belongs together.» Europe belongs together. It is in Norway's interest that the EU succeeds in its efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e664	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e667	In his excellent statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said we were leaving for a decade and went into a new one. The decade we leave, after 11 September 2001, was marked by the war on terror and the relationship between the United States and the world, not least in the context of the Iraq war. The decade has also been marked by increased globalisation and a gradual change in power. The US budget surplus at the end of Clinton's presidential period has turned to large deficits and rising government debt due to wars, large tax cuts and the financial crisis. Number one in the list of countries from which the United States has borrowed is China. China is also number one in the list of the world’s largest export nations, number one in the list of nations with highest CO2 emissions and number three in the list of world’s largest economies despite its huge differences and enormous poverty. Cooperation between the United States and China is important in order to establish a binding climate agreement, as well as to get into the Doha Development Round in the WTO, which has been going on for almost the whole decade we are leaving. In the new decade, therefore, the relationship between the United States and China can be crucial for the advancement of fair and sustainable development in both climate and trade policy. I am pleased that Norway will contribute to the swift conclusion of the Doha Round and hope that it will succeed in making this a real step forward for the world’s poor country, including the United States. facilitating increased imports of goods from developing countries. The financial crisis has also had an impact on the allocation of world resources. I am pleased that Norway has maintained the level of assistance in a time of declining value creation. The financial crisis must not hinder continued focus on poverty reduction and fair distribution. We don't know what's going to affect the decade we're going to go into, but we know that there won't be a lack of challenges. We remember the TV footage from the terrible hijackings and the disaster that hit the World Trade Center. But there are several disasters that must not be forgotten: the war in Congo, the tsunami in the Indian Ocean, the Darfur conflict. The TV cameras don't always stand where they should be, and the world's eyes don't always rest on those who need it the most. Common to these three disasters is that they took place in poor countries. A new decade is a new beginning with new opportunities and new hope in the struggle for a development in which the poor will not lose out again.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e686	I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good deal of work, where he addressed many interesting topics. My focus will be on a theme and an area of the world that still barely got named, i.e. Africa. For many years Norway has had a strong foreign policy commitment to Africa that goes far beyond the aid budget. In particular, there are major challenges to security. Wars and conflicts have very often affected the continent and led to enormous suffering. This has often made it necessary for the UN to intervene with peacekeeping forces. For a long time, Norway has not responded to these. The work of putting in place a Norwegian participation in a UN operation in Sudan did not lead, and from the Christian People's Party's side, we were therefore very pleased that it was possible to contribute to the management of the Darfur conflict through a strong contribution to Chad. Nearly 300,000 refugees from Darfur and the Central African Republic and 180,000 internally displaced refugees after the civil war in eastern Chad depend on protection. The Norwegian field hospital has been an important contribution to getting this done. The Christian People's Party agreed that the force would initially be standing for only one year. But now a new situation has arisen. The UN has not succeeded in getting anyone to take over, and the UN Special Mission to Chad says that the entire operation can be traced. The UN Secretary-General has personally asked Norway to consider postponing the repatriation. In such a situation, the Christian People's Party believes that the Government should be willing to assess all the possibilities for doing so. The answers that have so far come from the Government have been very unclear when it comes to the reason why an extension would not be possible. If the problem were the lack of available personnel, there would be a more technical military-professional issue which would be understandable if the Foreign Minister were to leave to the head of defence. But it now turns out that the staff present today have not even been asked if they will be willing to extend the assignment. Nor has one followed up on a previous contact with the Netherlands, the United States and Serbia, which could be willing to deploy personnel who could take over some of the tasks at the Norwegian hospital. Then it seems more and more like there's a political question, a question of political priority, where Africa once again draws the shortest straw. In the reply in the previous debate, I would like to point out that the Foreign Minister will look at transitional arrangements in order to prevent the United Nations operation from suffering. State Secretary Eide says to the class struggle today that the UN is likely to be in Chad for another year. The class struggle also reports that Serbia is now repeating its offer to provide more staff for the Norwegian hospital, and that they hope that Norway will continue. I would like to challenge the Secretary of State if the Government would like to follow that path further. At the same time, I would also like to challenge him on what the NRK reports today, namely that Nigeria can be willing to take over with a new hospital in Chad. However, the UN still asks Norway to be able to extend by a few weeks until this hospital is in place. Therefore, it would be interesting to know whether the Foreign Minister will take the initiative for a new assessment and whether it could at least open up for a short extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e699	The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement that the financial crisis puts increasing pressure on the rights of workers and puts the fight for decent work to the test. That's right, and it's dangerous, because we know it prevents development. In this debate, the Progress Party provides for more liberal speculative economy to help the poorest. But we know better. In Norway, we have developed a decent society because we have strong employee rights, because people have a job that they can live with and with which they can live. It has also been the whole basis of the political power that has made most people in Norway actually have power, which I thought the Progress Party was occupied with. But that's why what happened on September 5th, 2008 right away at Bristol, important, because then the government put forward its strategy for 'decent work', i.e. decent work. In that work, the Government said that Norway should be used through both foreign, aid, trade, ownership and employers’ policies to promote employees’ rights globally, because we know that it works. It is very important that we have a good follow-up to this strategy in all policy areas. I would like to challenge the Foreign Minister a little bit on the follow-up. Finally, I would also like to address a topic that the head of the World Trade Organisation Pascal Lamy raised at that meeting with us, namely the fact that the cooperation on employee rights takes place in the ILO. But the ILO has no sanctioning powers. Other important cooperation takes place in the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, which has sanctioning powers but is not responsible for employee rights. He challenged the countries: if it is such that you believe that these employee rights that you have agreed on are as important as you say in the ILO, how do you intend to regulate this? Are you going to do that in the World Trade Organisation, or are you going to keep doing it in the ILO? I do not have a good answer to that, but we need an answer. A partial response is what Norway is doing: speaking with its voice in foreign policy, aid policy, trade policy, in all ways where we are present in the world around us. It is very good that Norway should do so. However, there is a need for mechanisms that can do this for the poor countries of the world, which the labour movement has done well in Norway, namely to raise the living conditions of ordinary people so that they have become extremely productive as well. International research shows that this has also made Norway one of the world’s most productive countries in a purely economic sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e708	I am a little surprised at this attack on international market liberalism, among other things. by Mr Kolberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green I guess no one is serving as well on international market liberalism as Norway is doing, on the oil and gas exports we have, and there are certainly no countries that are so important for the functioning of international markets, as for small countries with an open economy. I feel that it was the Minister for Foreign Affairs who was also concerned about it. When we talk about the WTO and the EEA and these here, they are based on market liberalism, with which all countries are well served. I want to take up a slightly different page in this debate as well, and get into the Middle East, which is also relevant in these days, which is mostly always up to date, since something is always happening down there. I think it is very important that Norway and the international community have a balanced approach to the conflict. It's a very complex conflict with historical roots. It's ideology, it's religion, there's a lot of interest inside the image. However, if we are to be able to contribute to peace, the approach must be balanced. There has to be power behind it, as it was said here, and demands are made on both parties. The need to make demands makes the United States perhaps the nation – the agency, the actor – that is often best suited to act as a mediator. The UN has a very bad ‘record’ on peacemaking in the Middle East. In fact, in several cases the UN has helped to escalate the conflict – 1967 is an example of it – rather than being involved in mitigating the conflict, because some forces have been fired that have helped to increase the conflict. I agree with the criticism of Israel's settlement policy that has been in the last few days. It has not been involved in contributing to the peace process. It has not been involved in the process. But at the same time, I think it's important that we start from a little realistic analysis of the situation down there. Iran, the head of which was at the opening stage, is the destabilising factor in the region. Iran has designated Israel as its main enemy, and has been very clear and scratched in relation to it. Iran is developing nuclear weapons. We know that both Hezbollah and Hamas are, let's say, extended arms of Iran. It creates a very exciting and unstable situation. I believe that if the international community is not clear in its confrontation with both Hamas and Hezbollah, it will be arranged for Israel to intervene in arms itself at some point, as they did in 2006 and 2009, in order to protect itself. They have full rights under international law. Every nation has a right to defend itself. But if you don't make demands on these organizations as well, just as we do on Israel, it will actually help destabilize and create a tense situation. So I would say that one thing Norway might want to work for is to put an end to the discrimination that is taking place by Israel in the United Nations system itself. Israel is actually the only country that cannot have central positions in the United Nations because they are not accepted by the Asian bloc. In fact, I think it is a shame for the United Nations as a peace organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e726	Like those who have spoken before me, I would like to endorse the Foreign Minister's statement, which, in my view, gives a realistic picture of the foreign policy challenges facing Norway and the world. There are many areas you could have been tempted to comment on, but I will focus on some of the global commons. Either they directly or indirectly affect us. Training efforts, climate challenges, global health and food security are examples of those areas. Most of us agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he points out that the work on sustainable growth must be given priority after the financial crisis. This work is very complex and must also be reviewed over time. There is a great deal of concern when the consequences of the financial crisis can be mitigated in climate finance and aid. It is very serious that the financial crisis has a multifaceted effect on those who are always hardest hit when the disaster is there, whether we are talking about the financial crisis or about natural disasters, namely the world's poor. When the gap between poor and rich continues to rise – only in 2010 will we get 100 million more hungry and undernourished, and 64 million will live below the limit of extreme poverty – it is a signal of what challenges we have. Continued focus on assistance is a challenge. Norway must continue to work internationally to focus on the venues in which it operates. That is why it is important to have this on the agenda when the UN meets for the autumn. When criticizing Norway for the work we are doing towards the poor of the world, as the representative Myhre said, it is difficult to understand. It takes very little to save a child's life. The GAVI vaccination programme is such an example. In addition to children, women are the biggest losers when crises arise. In poor countries, women often dominate jobs that are hardest hit when the export industry fails. Norway is making a strong contribution to the fight to strengthen women’s rights in our aid work. It is a difficult and challenging task to make the place of women visible in the different cultures around the world. I read a very interesting article in today's Evening Post that Norwegian equality policy is being sought far beyond our borders. Many will probably be shaken by the withdrawal of equality policy when we are discussing foreign policy. But I think it's an important focus -- a very important focus. Minister of Equal Opportunities Lightbakken says: ‘Investment in equal opportunities is seen as unprofitable. My review theme is that in Norway we live not only on oil, but on equality. It has given us increased productivity by increasing participation in the labour market.’ Our experiences can be transferred to the world around us. I also think it's important that equality become a topic when the world's challenges are discussed in the different arenas where we're represented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e748	The Minister for Foreign Affairs put on the women's glasses in the description of the financial crisis. I'm glad. Foreign policy is about power – about power between states, about power between alliances, and it's also about power between genders. The 2009 conflict in e.g. The Congo seriously showed how vulnerable women as a group are to conflict, and how rape and sexualized violence are systematically used as weapons in war. Security Resolution 1325 was and is a milestone in giving women an equal role in peace and reconciliation work, but it is still a long way to go until, of course, women have a place around the peace negotiating table. In Norwegian and international women's fights, two main things have been important. One is having your own money. For this reason, efforts to ensure women’s education, proper pay and, consequently, financial autonomy are crucial for women’s liberation. The second is to be able to control your own body. It means obviously freedom from violence, but also the ability to choose for yourself whether to have children. We know that the most common cause of death for young girls, among others. Latin America is a complication of illegal abortions. Prevention and abortion rights are essential for women and girls to be able to control their own bodies. The ability to control your own body is crucial for the liberation of women. These perspectives, and these women's glasses, can be easy to forget when there is big politics and the world's high men on the agenda. But to me, this is one of the most important things we can discuss in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e761	Let me begin by commending the Government and boasting of the Government's efforts in terms of the initiative that was taken and, as Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre said in his presentation, to take up the place of nuclear weapons in NATO and NATO's initial strategy. Clearly, the deterrence strategy of NATO is the threat of using nuclear weapons first, nuclear weapons that can trigger a global — an all-embracing — nuclear war and completely destroy today’s civilization. The world, as we know it today, is, in my opinion, basically profoundly immoral -- threatening nuclear weapons and using nuclear weapons first, not to talk about it actually doing it! In addition – and I feel that is an important point on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs – it is important for nuclear disarmament in the world to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons that NATO is actually discussing its first-generation strategy and removing it from its strategic concept. Why? Yes, there must be a non-proliferation agreement supervisory conference now in May, and the Non-proliferation Agreement is about several things. One of the most important things is that you have the goal of abolishing nuclear weapons. Countries that Iran has undertaken not to acquire nuclear weapons, and the nuclear weapons are working in return for disarmament and commit themselves to it. Then it's important that everyone takes a step in the right direction: towards disarmament. This also applies to NATO. Then removing the first beat strategy will be a step on the right track. Excerpts of American nuclear weapons from European soil could be an important step on the way. Not initiating new large, expensive nuclear weapons programs will be a step on the right track to show that nuclear weapons actually mean serious, and it can be a step towards strengthening the work against the proliferation of nuclear weapons. In addition, of course, what is happening between Russia and the United States, is very gratifying, the signals coming up that an agreement on disarmament of strategic nuclear weapons is imminent. Morten Høglund raised the question of sanctions against countries that grossly violate human rights or commit major violations of international agreements. I am very pleased that the Progress Party is taking up. In return, I would like to welcome the representative of the Progress Party that, ten minutes ago, the Government presented a big message in which we go in to investigate, implement and introduce ethical guidelines for the investment of government bonds by the oil fund. It is an important step in ensuring the most ethical investment possible. And it's clear that discussing which guidelines to base, and what violations of human rights we're going to respond to, is a work that I also want the Progress Party to be warmly welcome to make recordings.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e772	The representative Holmås can be sure that we will use the political arenas that are, to practice our influence. First I'd be allowed to commend the representative Gina Knutson Barstad for her contributions and for the commitment she showed to women's rights. That commitment was something I would like to have had with me during my visit to Saudi Arabia a few weeks ago, where, after poor ability, I tried to address the question of women's rights. The commitment Knutson Barstad showed here, might have made a difference where I didn't get through. But I wanted to bring up some of the representatives of Kolberg. I'm a little unsure whether that article was based on as much knowledge as you might want to base an article on, when you consider a topic as serious as placing the responsibility for the financial crisis. Now it turns out, if we take private companies like Lehman Brothers, that it was based on pure crime. States like Greece have over time hidden the actual figures. More money has been spent than you have, and all this has to be sewn together in a fight against the market liberals – and now with the Progress Party – and the conclusion is that the universal welfare systems in Norway are at stake. This is not related! We are discussing welfare policy in Stortinget almost every day, and I don't think the voters out there feel that we are challenging the whole base of welfare in Norway. And at least, the way to connect things here is not going to be right. Then there are several people who have argued that the open trade, the globalisation and the market thinking that we are part of, and that we have enjoyed, is something Norway is totally dependent on, and also something that we defend, and that has historically been shown to give a profit – not just to Norway, but to those countries that have moved from a thinking where the market was very far away from the ruling ideology. The farther away you were from markets, the more oppression it was. It's at least a thesis I'll draw out, and for which I think it's largely historical evidence. With regard to the fight for 'decent work', I have great respect for it, and over the years, the labour movement has raised many important battles. But one of the most important struggles to give workers better rights is the fight for human rights, the fight for democracy, the fight to show one’s voice in society – and of course in the workplace, but you don’t solve the basic problems at work if you don’t give them a voice into the apparatus of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e785	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation to the Stortinget. I find it particularly interesting what is not as visible and not as mentioned in the public image when talking about foreign and security policy and the impact of the financial and food crisis. I am thinking of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to in terms of ‘new, heavy forces of change that have a decisive influence on foreign policy’, namely ‘change in living conditions and the struggle for resources’. The food crisis is a supply and distribution crisis in which over 1 billion people now starve and fearlessly many are misnourished. Food crisis is also a systemic crisis. Competition policy and stock reduction have led to large fluctuations in prices in 2007 and 2008. In 2009, the financial crisis led to falling prices again, but the weaknesses of the trading system have been exposed. When food prices increase, the price of inputs also increases. Winning goes up in the spinning for many producers, including the poorest. Many of the poorest countries are food importers, and poor people in cities do not produce food. Nevertheless, under-priced food production will not solve either the food crisis or the imbalance in the world. What the world needs is to stabilize the systems again. High prices are not the biggest problem, but that food and soil have become speculation objects on the world's stock exchanges. That's why I see with great concern that the high prices in recent years, combined with the fear of supply crises in countries with capital, but small food production, lead to the purchase of land or land grabbing on an increasing scale. In Africa, Asia and Latin America, international companies or foreign governments are now buying or renting large land. Researchers were commissioned by the UN to approve agreements for over 2 million hectares of land leased in Ethiopia, Ghana, Madagascar, Mali, Sudan, Mozambique and Tanzania. Contracts are not open to the local population or to others who want to know the conditions under which foreigners operate. Agriculture in developing countries needs investment. The UN Food Organisations estimate that the need for investment in the south amounts to 44 billion US dollars a year if we are to halve the number of hungry by 2015. However, whether one is concerned about not having significant barriers to trade, it is very important that one has several thoughts in his head at the same time and warns against a policy that may encourage crises and conflicts. I'm worried that we won't pay enough attention to exactly what the foreign minister referred to, said, "Great changes are creeping on cat pots." I am pleased that the Foreign Minister will focus on the heavy underlying frameworks. Many countries are struggling in very different ways with the management of the climate, food and financial crisis. All policies are local, even beyond the borders of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e808	It's coming to the end of the debate, and I'm not going to go very far, but to listen to the representative Gitmark's sloppy security about how politicians in southern Europe are going to solve their problems is quite incredible: cut wages no problem – 7 pst. It's too small. Increased taxes on the population – that is only right and fair. Cut into welfare schemes such as school and health — it should only be lacking. And so on and so forth. Rather than problemating the challenges of the euro, the representative Gitmark is capable of moralising politicians facing extremely difficult elections. Greece is, of course, quite bound by the common monetary policy. Usually, in such a crisis, a country would have the opportunity to devalue its currency in order to increase its competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries. They do not have that possibility through the common monetary policy. This will increase competitiveness through liberalisation, lower wages and social dumping. What Gitmark should focus on is: is it a desired development for Europe that wages are being pushed down, that the differences between people are increasing, and that real wages are being put back on track? We've seen in the United States a development where there's fewer and fewer people taking part in the growth of wealth. The steady working class is depending on, they must have two jobs in order to be able to feed their family. Is there such a struggle, a negative spiral, where we are going to compete for more pay between countries, which is Europe's response to the challenges we are now facing? At least it is not a good Norwegian tradition, either in the Right or in the other parties, that we should have a competition policy that reduces real wages, where we cut public welfare goods, and where we increase taxes. That is the policy we are now seeing in Europe. I'm afraid it's going to increase the level of conflict, with the dangers it brings over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e817	I have a particular impression that this debate also shows that the political tensions in Norwegian foreign and security policy are primarily between the opposition and the Workers' Party on the one hand and SV, Martin Kolberg and sometimes the Center Party on the other. In fact, I am glad that I am not going to attend meetings in the government quarters right now when EU and NATO questions are being discussed. I think those debates can be quite long. When discussing issues such as market economy and free trade, for example: Among the current government parties, I think the mood can get quite high at times. But it is now at least that Norway is based on market economy and free trade. So four years with a finance minister from what is called the Socialist Left Party for some reason, Norway is one of the most free economies in Europe, and is based on free trade and market economy. The Foreign Minister showed Tuesday that China is about to become an economic superpower, and that China can pass the United States as the world's largest economy in 15 years. In that case, if the current growth tree that we've seen for a few years continues indefinitely. It's going to be a lot more. We see that the US economy is still significantly larger than that of China and India. Either way, we will experience that the United States is most important in most areas for many, many years to come. I think we should deal with that in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e827	The president would point out that SV is called the Socialist Left Party, that's not something they call themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e830	Some of the threats posed by Norwegian welfare schemes are created. That's not the case at all. The financial crisis creates problems for a number of countries, including Norway, but it does not create problems for our Norwegian welfare systems. We have the opportunity to fund them, and there's a great interest from both the right and the left of the Storting to do just that. Both sides have helped to build up welfare systems as they are today. Let me also add that trade is involved in building down tensions. Trade is helping to create wealth and bringing millions of people out of poverty. In fact, trade is the strongest economic driver the world has seen, and without trade one will return to the time of decline in wealth. If there is something this financial crisis should teach us, it is that we must not impose unnecessary restrictions on trade between countries. So to the representative, Battle Violence Vedum and Greece: there's a couple of things that the representative should take over. The first is that Greece entered into the euro-cooperation with a false flag. Greece misled its friends in euro cooperation. They were not fair in relation to neither budget deficits nor other financial data. It has been raised beyond doubt that low interest rates were too tempting for the Greeks. That you now have a government debt of 120 pst. GDP is a major problem, and it is likely to reach 125 pst. GDP by the end of the year is even more alarming. That it is the Greeks who are holding their own key, and that should also be clearly stated by the representative, Mr Vedum. It is not up to either the world community, the IMF or the euro to save the Greeks. They must do so themselves, but they should be helped by the IMF on the road in relation to repayable loans and in relation to guarantees. Then I believe that the representative Battle Violence Vedum is not clear enough at other points in the relationship with Greece in particular. The fight against corruption has been tackled in a far too bad way. It is problematic to have countries in Europe with a corruption equivalent to an average of NOK 10 000 per year. per capita years, and the fact that no more has been done in recent years, regardless of government, is very regrettable. So to a black economy, we know very well that Greece has a big black economy. The Economist recently wrote that it is estimated that EUR 15 billion could be collected into the treasury if the black economy was tackled. At the same time, having a retirement age of 61 years – Germany has now raised its retirement age from 65 to 67 years – it again shows that there is a significant way to go before we have to go on welfare schemes that we take for granted. Then there is a retirement age of 67 years, for example. a road.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e843	A little earlier in the debate, the representative Ellingsen said that I should end my previous speech by saying ‘hallelujah’. I just want to say in parentheses that the kind of attempts at stigmatisation and ridicule I have so far waited for over the years, but it would have been much better that the representative Ellings had answered my political challenges. That's to say what both Ellingen and Højlund have been up to, that if it were to be said ‘hallelujah’ at any point, it would have been if the Norwegian liberals had recognized the great challenge the financial crisis has created for the entire Western political culture. We now see for the first time great dangers that states within our territory can go bankrupt. Then it's time to really go on their own considering the basic analysis on which to base your social governance. Although there is a paradox in it all: I heard very carefully the post of Karin S. Woldseth, as I thought was a thoughtful post. Everything she said in her post, requires strong states and strong systems. It requires regulation of policy systems to help, among other things. Greece. Without strong national governments, without strong democracies, that would not have happened. It is quite strange that there is such a twin among Norwegian liberals in this area. On the one hand, there should be no regulation; on the other hand, there should be no regulation; on the other hand, there should be no regulation; on the other hand, it should be completely systematic in domestic policy and in foreign policy. Even the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, has said that she believes that the financial crisis does not actually have real economic effects – I quote here – when we see that unemployment is spreading, gross domestic product is falling, and that pressures the social and economic systems of countries by country. I did not say that the Norwegian universal welfare systems were under pressure – I did not say that. I said that they were a prerequisite for a stable rule of the people, and therefore for the ability to function in the international community. That's what I said. You don't have to try to misunderstand it, because it was quite clear. I don't understand that you can't take that challenge. I do not believe that Norwegian liberals, who, after all, work in Norwegian reality, believe that we should become like Latvia. But I remind you that in the political debate just a few years ago, you stood up and highlighted Latvia as the lighthouse on how to operate and develop a market economy within the old Russian sphere. Then they were the great heroes. Now they're bankrupt. Then I am not the one to say ‘hallelujah’, as you are to acknowledge that you have an analysis that is also not correct in the international context. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e856	In three minutes a few brief observations. I believe the seriousness of the situation behind the financial crisis, or what the financial crisis has derived, lies in much of what Martin Kolberg said in his speech, namely that it is now striking fundamentally in the structures of the Western economies, and the importance it can have for political power. It was my intention to make the statement – an important purpose of the statement. So I'll comment on some articles. First, to the representative Gustavsen, it's very important to raise the perspective on popular engagement. I was in charge of disarmament. When she mentions different animals that are called something, I can say that I've got a weather named after me at the new countyman in Hordaland. So if it can contribute to peace in Hordaland, I am satisfied with it. To the representative Myhre I just want to say when he said he was happy he was not sitting in the government quarter, that it is a joy the Norwegian people share with him, for his analysis of aid, his analysis of the political system – and I join Martin Kolberg’s contributions – does not draw in the direction of stability and security neither for Norway nor for others. The representative, Karin Andersen, was concerned with ‘decent work’. There is a priority for the Government. There we have put forward a plan for how to pursue it at home and outside, something that we, among other things, want to do. cooperates closely with the trade union movement. She's absolutely right when she refers to the WTO. It is the organisation with teeth that has supervisory powers and sanctioning powers. It doesn't have the ILO. This is an agenda Norway wants to put at the heart of the international debate, but we do not get it until the Doha Round is in the finish line. It's an observation. These Doha negotiations, which have been going on for ten years, must be concluded decently before we can proceed with other important agendas. So to the representative, Ropstad, who asks timely and good questions about Chad. Let me say that. We're dividing this engagement. Let's use that as an input. For the first time in 16 years, in Chad, Norway is back on the ground in such a comprehensive way. I think the Minister of Defense and I have seen how demanding it is, because it's about training systems and people to contribute to this kind of operation, which in some context can be more complicated than regular army units. The UN has a kind of intentional agreement with Nigeria on the extension of a hospital. This is now for discussion. Nigerians are going to reconnaissance. We must allow the UN to control this. But, of course, we're going to be flexible and equipped to contribute and support as far as we can, and see if there are things Norway can do in one way or another that can ensure a reasonable health care for those present there. But the extract goes as planned. It's actually planned from when it was inserted, and it has to go its way. But we're going to show every degree of flexibility. Then I will also join and pay tribute to Knutson Barstad's representative to address the position of women, Resolution 1325 and its follow-up. I can also say that the new UN representative for sexualised violence, Margot Wahlström, was in Oslo earlier this week. She has received broad Norwegian support, and visited Norway as the first country in her new capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e877	The representative, Morten Höglund, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e880	When you base the assumption that the Progress Party wants as much as to wind up – I heard the representative say – the international control and the international regulations on which the representative Woldseth was involved, and break down the ability of the various organisations to tackle the challenges we face, it becomes a fundamental mistake. We recognise the consequences of the financial crisis. We recognise the difficulties many countries face, but trying to say that these countries' situation is the result of excessive liberalist and market fundamentalist policies does not, of course, become correct when you go in and look at what has led these countries into this situation. There are countries with different directions of their governments that have ended up in such a situation. So the whole analysis is based on errors. I do not feel – and I have been responsible for much of this policy – that the Progress Party has refused to participate and take responsibility internationally in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e887	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e890	My point is not to absolve Greece of the responsibility for the economic policy they have pursued – or lack of policy. My point is that the euro has taken away from them their freedom of action in the crisis they have faced, and that the euro should never have become a national currency as long as one does not have a central federal economy that can go heavily into and stabilise economies that are struggling, as the Greek economy does. I read a look up by the Icelandic Minister of Finance earlier this week, where he expressed the joy that they were not part of the euro cooperation. This has caused them to devalue their economy, so that they have a completely different competitive power now, which means that they have a real growth in the economy of Iceland. Although they have also run their economy in a miserable way, they have had a greater freedom of action and a greater opportunity to get out of the crisis they are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e897	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e911	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e920	A central part of our efforts in Afghanistan is to build Afghan capacity and ownership with a view to gradually transferring security responsibilities to the Afghan authorities, which is also fully in line with what the United States has as a long-term strategy in Afghanistan. This is done by training and mentoring, in addition to Norwegian forces following the Afghan security forces when conducting operations. This is also called partnering. In Afghanistan, the security situation has deteriorated significantly and Norwegian forces are more often involved in operations with Afghan security forces. The worsening of the situation through increased activity by the Taliban means that the assumptions underlying the 2010 budget have now changed. This means that if the Norwegian strength contribution is to provide the Afghan security forces with the necessary support and be the intended partner unit, it must be hijacked. 1792 increased by 102 million. kr. In addition, it is decided to continue the Norwegian helicopter contribution until October 2010. But it can be seen that the need for this contribution will be great in addition to this. The availability of helicopters for medical evacuation is crucial for the safety of Norwegian forces. It states that the helicopter environment in Norway does not have the necessary robustness to stand abroad for a long time, and if this is extended beyond 1 October 2010, the environment needs to be reorganised by other means through the reorganisation of the home helicopter departments and the FLO. The Committee welcomes the continuation of the infantry unit in PRT Meymaneh and its establishment as a partner unit for Afghan security forces. The Committee is also pleased that the Norwegian helicopter contribution NAD has been decided to continue until October 2010. The Committee has also noted that the need will be high by 2010. As regards the robustness of the Norwegian helicopter environment and its inability to stand abroad for a long time, the Committee assumes that the Government will find a solution that will ensure the necessary helicopter capacity even after 2010. It is also assumed that the Committee will be kept continuously informed of the plans for this purpose. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, finds that the conversion to a partner unit is in line with the objective of strengthening Afghan civil and military authorities. However, this majority will warn against this objective being achieved very soon, as government statements may suggest. The majority would also point out that the partner unit must have the capacity to carry out its own tasks and that they need necessary and modern equipment. The majority also assumes that the Government compensates and tries to reduce the wear and tear that remains on the Air Force helicopter environment, and therefore asks the Government to inform the Government appropriately about how NAD's involvement affects the defence's other use of helicopters. I shall then move on to the special remarks and proposals of the Advance Party. The fact that the Progress Party wants to strengthen the defence budget in general and the strengthening contribution in Afghanistan in particular can hardly be a surprise to anyone. We have wanted this for many years, both in individual cases and during budgetary procedure. The Progress Party is concerned that Norwegian forces in Afghanistan should have access to the best possible equipment, for obvious safety reasons, in particular when we are now made aware that the security situation is significantly worse. The job that the Norwegian force contribution in Afghanistan is doing to combat terrorism and repression for another people deserves to have the best equipment. In addition, we also need to make sure that they get all the training and practice they need in order to be well prepared for their stay in Afghanistan. This is why we want to increase the postage by another 30 million. kr. And if anyone should find it strange that the Progress Party wants it, they should probably read what we have promoted by proposals in recent years. If it turns out that you are still not able to use up the proposed amount from the Advance Party, we are the first to suggest that this money is transferred to other parts of the Defense. There's enough holes to fill. With this, I would like to address the proposal by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e939	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e942	Let us stress, as the rapporteur did, that the arrangement for both Norway's and other international activities in Afghanistan must now be that Afghan capacities and institutions must be built up a little after a while. Gradually, security responsibilities must be transferred to the Afghan authorities' own authorities. Our presence in Afghanistan is of a temporary nature. We have to be in Afghanistan until the situation is such that the Afghans can take over. The safety situation in Afghanistan is demanding, at times very demanding. There is nothing to hide. It also means that Norwegian forces are faced with more demanding tasks. That the infantry unit of PRT Meymaneh continues and is now established as a so-called partner unit is an important grip, and that the unit can operate with Afghan forces is in line with the overall objective of our involvement in Afghanistan. Let me also stress that the management responsibility for security throughout Faryab should be transferred to the Afghan authorities as soon as possible. Obviously, the situation must allow that. It is also good that the Norwegian helicopter contribution continues, but, as many have been concerned about, such a large helicopter contribution abroad is challenging for the domestic helicopter environment. I am sure the Minister of Defense is concerned about it, has noticed what the Committee says in the vote, and will focus on those challenges in the future, and, in cooperation with the Defence and the Defence Logistics Organisation, will find solutions to protect the helicopter environment in Norway. I would also like to add that the helicopter contribution in Afghanistan is reaping great international recognition. They are making a very solid effort, and the contribution is important for the safety of Norwegian soldiers and for other soldiers. From the Workers' Party's side, I would just like to say very briefly: we support the additional allocation of 188 million. kr. Norwegian Afghanistan policy is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e953	As stated in the proposal, the safety situation in the region in which the Norwegian forces participate has been significantly deteriorated – a situation which the rapporteur-in-chiefly affected, among others. in its introduction, and a situation which has led to today’s landfill treatment. In the future, the Norwegian forces and military efforts will increasingly be directed towards the concept of ‘afghanistan’, which was also addressed by the two previous speakers – an even stronger support for the Afghan forces in the region. This is, of course, a very, very demanding challenge, with all the cultural differences and all the other differences that exist in this area. The term "time" I think we're going to take on even more than what we've been willing to do so far, to be able to stand out and solve the challenge that we're quite broadly agreed to. To a large extent, this issue is also about the Norwegian helicopter contribution, which has been decided to continue until October this year. However, there is little doubt that the continuation of the helicopter support must be continued beyond the month of October. The helicopter has an essential place in any form of safety assessment, and as long as no other country joins the service in this area, we must be prepared for a continuation. From the Right, we believe that further helicopter support is absolutely necessary in order to be able to succeed in the region at all. This is a situation that has become very demanding for the Air Force helicopter environment, which in all ways, capacity-intensive and workable, is under a very great pressure. I hope the Council of State will comment on this issue separately in its introduction if possible. Helicopter use in Afghanistan also has a significant impact on helicopter capacity in the domestic situation in Norway. I believe it is reasonable that the Storting will be informed about how the NAD exposure affects the defence's other use of the helicopter. The possibility of hearing about this may be present either today or on a later occasion. Of course, the right-hand side supports the proposed proposition. We must constantly be prepared for the assumption that our involvement in Afghanistan can change. All involved and interested parties are naturally concerned that we are optimally equipped in our operations in Afghanistan. The equipment of Norwegian soldiers must be in proportion to the threat picture they face. Here I want to add that the forces have for some time called for, among other things. bombers and pan-server guns. In this context, from the Right, we are very pleased that our allies, and now, in particular, the United States, come to our rescue in the Faryab province. The Taliban has become more active, and the Norwegian forces can expect to operate even more in the field in the future. Although our commitment to Afghanistan is very demanding for the Norwegian defence and it is lurking on both personnel, equipment and not least financially, I am pleased that today's debate again shows that there is a broad consensus on our commitment. Terrorism must be combated where terror exists and where terrorists are located. In Stortinget, only SV seems to close its eyes to this fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e972	It is positive that a unanimous Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence supports Norway’s military contribution to Afghanistan in 2010 and will increase the allocation in order to strengthen its efforts. When our soldiers are out on a military foreign mission that is both demanding and dangerous, it is good that they can experience having a total collapse in their backs. The background to the changes now being implemented is serious enough. The safety situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated significantly. Our forces are often involved in war operations along with Afghan forces in northern Afghanistan. The difficult situation in Afghanistan was discussed in the United Kingdom in February of this year on the basis of a separate statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on Afghanistan. I will therefore not address the broader issues of the war in Afghanistan, but refer to what was then said by the Christian People's Party on the major challenges both on the military front, the political developments associated with the elections, human rights and corruption, and the need to bring about social and economic development that improves the situation of people around this war-torn country. Experience shows that there is a need to change the strategy if Afghanistan is to be able to stabilise, reduce civil losses and strengthen the Afghans’ own capacity to create security and development. In efforts to strengthen the Afghan Government’s own ability to address the Taliban security challenges and other groupings, Allied forces are implementing changes in their cooperation in order to contribute to a range of training and support tasks. There is also a need to adapt the Norwegian strength contribution. Norway needs to increase its ability to provide Afghan security forces with the necessary support to maintain acceptable safety. There will therefore be a change in the Norwegian military contribution scheme compared to the scheme underpinned by the adoption of the defence budget by the Stortinget last autumn. It is necessary to continue the Norwegian strength contribution at around the current level, but with some adjustments, including: by establishing a separate partner unit with the necessary support from the summer onwards. This unit shall operate with Afghan forces in field operations and perform other tasks requiring rapid rescue efforts. In the case of the Norwegian helicopter contribution, there is an important function, for such capacity is needed, inter alia. for medical evacuation in this conflict-filled area. This task has become even more important because of the worsening security situation and even greater since the increase in the area of operation of the Norwegian forces last year. The Christian People's Party, like the majority of the Committee, believes that this mission places considerable pressure on the Air Force Helicopter Environment, both operational and technical. It's a highly specialized, but after all, a small environment from which we're going to pick up the crew. We must avoid excessive wear on these key teams, because it is important to maintain and recruit sufficient personnel with the necessary skills. On this basis, the Christian People's Party will support the proposal to increase the allocation of Chapter 1792, Norwegian forces abroad, by 218 million. kr in order to carry out the military missions in Afghanistan described in Prop. 69 p.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e989	The proposal submitted is intended to request the consent of the Stortingen to increase the allocation of the Norwegian contribution to Afghanistan in 2010. The defence will not be able to cover the costs associated with the establishment of a partner unit from summer 2010 and the costs associated with the continuation of the helicopter contribution during the year under the framework adopted for Chapter 1792. In the proposal submitted, the Government of the PRT Meymaneh device proposes to be adapted from the summer of 2010 by establishing a dedicated partner unit with the necessary support. The unit will perform many of the same functions as the current infantry unit, but with a main focus on partnering with Afghan security forces. The partner unit will need to be able to move quickly into emerging situations. PRT Meymaneh will continue to maintain the capacity to carry out watchkeeping, securing and escorting tasks. The helicopter for medical evacuation is absolutely essential for the safety of our soldiers and for Afghan and Allied soldiers operating in the same area. However, the need for this capacity will continue to be high throughout the year. We are looking at options for the supply of medical evacuation capacity helicopters from other countries, but dialogue with other countries as to whether this has not yet been achieved. The government is aware of the challenges facing the helicopter environment in Defense, and we are working to address these challenges in the best possible way. I note the comments made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy on this point. The defense was therefore asked to develop a thorough investigation of the consequences, and it concluded that the extension would have negative consequences for the helicopter service at home. This is mainly due to the fact that the helicopter environment has very limited resources for both technical and operational pilots. However, the Defence Manager has recommended an extension of the helicopter contribution in Afghanistan, subject to some measures being implemented in the Air Force and in the Defence Logistics Organisation (FLO). These measures include, inter alia: to increase the strength production of helicopter crews and technicians and to increase access to operational helicopters at home. These measures are in the process of being implemented. This means that the defence will incur a number of additional costs. The total amount of measures is estimated at 86 million. kr for the current year. In line with the UN mandate underpinning our efforts in Afghanistan, our aim is to support Afghan authorities in establishing stability and development in Afghanistan. It is widely agreed that the construction of capacity and ownership of the Afghan security force should be the main focus of the international military engagement. Norway wishes to be a driver for the transfer of management responsibility for security to the Afghan authorities of the Faryab province as soon as the situation permits. We will still be present after such a transfer, but then in an even clearer support role. It has recently been decided to make a significant increase in the number of Afghan security forces also in North Afghanistan. This leads to an increased need for personnel to run training and partnering, and a number of ISAF nations are now significantly strengthening their military efforts in Afghanistan, primarily in order to conduct such training and partnering. Norway has a large and relevant contribution in Afghanistan, adapted to the needs of ISAF. This is recognised by our partners. The government will continue the Norwegian contribution at today's level, while adapting the strength contribution towards an increased focus on building up the capacity of Afghan security forces, as I have just described. The level of budget to which the Government is now subsidising is based on the defence manager’s assessment of the security situation and his recommendation of the necessary resources for the performance of the mission as well as the safety of personnel. In the execution of the mission, the security of our soldiers is always the highest priority, and we do our utmost to equip the defense with good and modern equipment. I therefore ask that the Stortinget agree to increase the Norwegian contribution to Afghanistan in 2010 by a total of 188 million. kr, as described in the proposal submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1010	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2730]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1026	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 10 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1035	This is probably strictly taken more or less the last case on the map today, with the exception of the Unit, and perhaps the most high-flying, although we had an interesting foreign policy debate. And that's good reason, because the Storting is today going to decide to move on with a project to provide a communication satellite to the Defense. The Minister of Defence said in the previous case that it is important to provide all the necessary equipment, so that the forces outside and at home are best able to handle the tasks they face. In this way, communication is undoubtedly a key tool for success for both elements, not least on the security side. The proposition has a budget envelope of less than DKK 1 billion, so it's a relatively expensive investment, but still a reasonable one. It has been proposed by the Government to move on to a Norwegian-Spanish solution, and this closes the Stortinget today. In its comments, the Committee has also been concerned with pointing out that this satellite will benefit soldiers in this country in areas where Norway has sovereignty, but that it can also be used in foreign operations. What has been critical has been the fact that the proposition is relatively limited in terms of information. Of course, you could say that most of it is here, and the heaviest thing is to get hold of. One has even been able to ask questions, and the committee has done so. The Committee has asked quite a number of questions to ask for some facts that we felt were not or were directly informed. If you were to say that something should have been done differently, it wouldn't have done anything if there had been several discussions around the selection of the satellite, and maybe a little bit more about why you didn't choose – let's call it – the Norwegian model, which was one of the things that was coming up and was discussed. But we take note that the government has chosen. In addition, I would like to point out that the proposition uses different terms. I don't know if it's conscious or unconscious. The concept of recommending a project today is used to go further with the financing project. Somewhere else it says you have to go to the acquisition of a satellite. I assume that the project will follow the satellite, but it wouldn't have done anything if, with all due respect, you had used the same terms throughout the proposition, because it would have made everything more tidy, at least in my opinion. As I said, the criticism is not about the need, but about the fact that more could have been discussed in favour of it. A case that has a budget framework of up to NOK 1 billion could have brought with it more than one and a half pages of text. With this, I consider the matter to be submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1054	I agree with the case rapporteur that it is a high-flying matter, and I look forward to the day when the committee will be on an inspection and look at the acquisition to which the Storting joins today! If we are to be able to monitor effectively and effectively the areas of interest to Norway and if we are to be able to deal with the incidents that may arise quickly, we need to use modern technology. And if we're going to use modern technology, we need good communication systems. Repeatedly, Stortinget has discussed the northern regions. Increased attention and focus on the northern regions also make military presence in the north more important. At the same time, Norwegian forces participate significantly in international operations in areas where the infrastructure for communication is poorly developed or perhaps not developed at all. It is difficult to predict the future, but it is quite certain that in the years to come, the northern regions and international operations will be very important for Norwegian defence, probably even more important than today. And then we need effective and secure communication channels. Only satellite-based communications can adequately ensure good communication over long distances to the Defence Departments at home and outside. So far, the Norwegian defence has solved its need for satellite communications by renting satellite capacity. Gradually, it has been found that it has become difficult to rent such capacity; the market – if one can use such an expression – because it is under pressure. In addition, it is very expensive to rent such satellite capacity by others. I mentioned the importance of the northern regions. In those satellites in which capacity can be rented today, there is poor coverage of the north. This is partly due to technical circumstances, but it is also due to the fact that most commercial satellites are targeting areas with high population and thus larger customer base. One can say a lot about the northern regions, and so does the Stortinget, but especially high population numbers aren't there, at least not so far. That's why we need a satellite with Norwegian ownership that can prioritize capacity towards the northern regions. In order to put this in place, several different options have been assessed, a total of seven pieces. Finally, two alternatives remained: one was a cooperation project with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, StatSat, and the other was a material project in cooperation with Spain, Hisdesat. The external quality assurance concluded that cooperation with Spain and Hisdesat was better and cheaper for Norway and Norway’s defence than a solution with the Norwegian StateSat. And then the matter should be quite obvious to Stortinget. We have to pick the best solution. We cannot "old people" with the security of Norwegian soldiers. We have to have communication systems that work. Cooperation with Hisdesat is the solution that is technically and operationally considered to be both the best and the cheapest. I would like to hear what Stortinget had said about the government having suggested something other than the option that quality insurers have defined as the best and at the same time the cheapest option. Hisdesat is a recognised and experienced provider of satellite communications services. We now get a satellite capacity with a coverage area extending from Brazil in the west to Indonesia in the east, and from Svalbard in the north to Queen Maud's land in the south. For Norway, Norway's interests and Norwegian soldiers are only the best enough. That is why we are choosing the best satellite solution today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1077	In the defence and security image, technology in most areas is a key word, including for defence. The technology challenges are very demanding, especially because Norway is a very small population country, but has authority over nearly 1/3 of the land and sea of Western Europe. Among other things, the Stoltenberg Committee has written several times about the technology challenge in its recommendation on increased Nordic cooperation in the field of defence. Well, demanding and expensive is a comprehensive expression of this challenge. Satellite communications with sufficient bandwidth are a prerequisite for modern defence, and high-tech and online defence equipment must always be of very high priority. And literally, the world has become bigger also for the Norwegian defence, where monitoring and control to Norwegian authorities from Afghanistan to the North Sea is now very much needed. Of course, the right-hand side supports the launch of a new investment project for the acquisition of a communication satellite to the Defence Agency, and the setting up of the Committee is therefore also unanimous. However, the government's handling of the matter requires quite a few comments. A series of questions have been asked from the Committee to the Department. This is mainly related to the selection of collaborative partners. At best, it may be highly questionable how well and exactly the Council of State has answered the questions. From the Right and the entire opposition side, we're asking a lot of questions about the process around the road choices, where it might seem that the Ministry of Defence has ignored the normal procurement procedures that exist. The proposition and the choice of the Spanish supplier came very surprising in a comprehensive Norwegian technology and satellite environment, including Telenor, Kongsberg and others, in addition to central international defence suppliers, all of whom had been given the impression that capacity was to be acquired through a normal tendering process. No one seems to have been given the opportunity to supply a quote for a given requirement specification, and I repeat: on given requirement specifications. There is a significant degree of anger in the supply environment in Norway around the Ministry’s handling of the case. We are talking here about an investment of about 1 billion Norwegian kroner, and considering that the Stortinget has previously been very clear on which procedures should be followed in such public acquisitions, including defence purchases, it may really seem that the department has hardly had this instruction in front of it in the handling of the satellite case. The right considers that the Ministry has not provided adequate answers as to why the process has been carried out or has adequately justified the choice of the Spanish supplier for technical and operational reasons. One can for good reason discuss how repurchase principles are handled, while the instructions to invite Norwegian companies into the process can hardly be said to have been followed to a particularly satisfactory extent. It is therefore concluded that the national option consisted of two departments, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of Defence, where satellite skills can best be discussed. The answer from the State Council to questions about Telenor has been asked to do the same thing as Spanish Hisdesat is unclear. In one of the replies from the Ministry, it is pointed out that satellite acquisition has been briefed at a seminar. The answer also gives the impression that the Ministry of Defence has assumed a ‘fictitious’ offer from Telenor, which neither Telenor has developed nor has been formally asked to make, and then to use its own assumption as a kind of argument that Telenor should not be invited to offer. Assumptions or speculations about what Telenor’s offer would look like, perhaps how cooperation with an international party could have been fit into Telenor’s offer, seem to form the basis for not letting Telenor have a formal invitation to participate – I repeat: formal invitation. We are talking here about a billion-dollar investment – as I have said before – where the demand for purchasing processes needs to be raised. Among other things, we have seen by one of the quality assurance reports that the sample commissioned to investigate the option was not set up until 23 June 2009. So they had four weeks. At that time there had already been a quality assurance and recommended Spanish option since 30 April 2009. We record that the economy is used as an argument in this case without any evidence of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1096	The government has through Prop. 56 S for 2009-2010 submitted proposals for the approval of a new material project, ‘Creation of a communication satellite for Defence’. The proposal in the proposal is in line with the priorities laid down in the Long-term Defence Plan, which was discussed in Stortinget in spring 2008. Good communication systems are essential for the defence to contribute to the stability and effective monitoring of Norwegian areas of interest, as well as for the rapid and credible management of incidents. This need is further reinforced by the involvement of the defence in foreign operations, where there is insufficient communication infrastructure. The acquisition of a communication satellite to the Defence is thus an important project to meet the growing need for long-term relations of Defence, both nationally and in connection with operations abroad. I therefore note with satisfaction that it is a unanimous Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that has joined the proposal in the proposal. In my further post, I would like to focus on explaining the comprehensive and thorough process ahead of the Government's choice of solution. As previously briefed by Stortinget, the Ministry of Defence started work on the acquisition of satellite capacity for the Defence in February 2006. Since the spring of 2007, the Ministry of Defence has continuously informed industry about the planned acquisition of satellite communications capacity for the Defence. I record that the members of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are critical of the process that has led to the proposal to acquire a communication satellite through cooperation with the Spanish authorities and the company Hisdesat. As part of the comprehensive procurement process, the Ministry of Defence, in addition to an alternative that continued to provide capacity rental in the open market, has assessed two alternative strategies to provide a dedicated communication satellite to the Defence Agency. One was that the defense acquired a satellite of its own, and the other was to find a partner where the needs of both parties could be met by a common satellite. The defence is aware that the rental market for satellite capacity is under pressure. The defence has also not been given access to the necessary capacity on several occasions. In addition, market pressure has led to high prices. Ownership of a satellite will result in significant savings compared to the rental of capacity while ensuring access to and control of this critical resource. A dedicated satellite proved to have an investment cost far beyond the dedicated framework of the project, and based on this, further work was directed towards finding a collaborative solution. The Ministry of Defence has assessed both national and international cooperation solutions. Until the Government’s decision, considerable efforts were made to find national alternatives to international material cooperation. The defence received four offers from international actors on bilateral satellite cooperation. On the national side, the current option was cooperation between the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Defence, the so-called StatSat option, where the actors would join forces to acquire a satellite. All alternative solutions were assessed against a fixed set of criteria: operational requirements, finance, investment costs and lifetime costs, and uncertainty. Only solutions that satisfied the operational requirements of the Defence Agency were further assessed. I note that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party state that, through the questions and answers exchanged between the Committee and the Government in this matter, they have not found any information to substantiate the conclusion in addition to the claims and calculations made by the Government through the proposition. Therefore, on the basis of questions from the Committee, I have submitted the reports of external quality assurance of the project. These go in detail through the evaluations of the different options, both in relation to the operational requirements of the defence and the economy of the alternatives. Only material cooperation with Spain and Hisdesat, as well as the national cooperation solution StatSat, satisfied the defence requirements at an acceptable cost. Of course, the choice of options has been subject to external quality assurance under the guidelines of the Ministry of Finance relating to State investments above 500 million. kr. In the choice between cooperation with Spain and Hisdesat and StatSat, external quality assurance concluded that material cooperation with Spain was the best solution for defence and the state, among others. with regard to lifetime costs, organisation and capacity to implement. In cooperation with Spain and Hisdesat, the defence is provided with sufficient quality and with the lowest possible risk and cost. I also record a concern from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party related to the Norwegian industry's ability to participate, and that leading satellite suppliers have not been given the opportunity to supply the purchase. In this context, I would like to stress that the actual acquisition of the satellite is going to open up competition in the market for satellite suppliers. The cost framework for the Norwegian share of the acquisition is 982 million. kr. The choice of supplier will be made in a joint process between Norway and Spain, based on a unified selection process of incoming offers. In this context, all satellite suppliers will be able to supply offers on the satellite when the tender is launched. As regards the issue of repurchase, it is the legal basis for requiring repurchase so far not clarified. This is due, inter alia, to: the commercial side of the project related to the rental of available capacity. Based on Storting’s decision today, the Ministry of Defence will start negotiations with Hisdesat and the Spanish authorities, and the issue of repurchase will be addressed in this context. It is not clear whether the Spanish authorities would require repurchase. If there is legal reason to require repurchase, repurchase will also be required from the Norwegian side. Through cooperation with Spain and Hisdesat, the defence will meet its needs for satellite capacity with sufficient quality and with the lowest possible risk and cost. The acquisition will cover the defence's need for satellite communications in the north and in the areas of Norwegian forces or have been involved in operations abroad in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1136	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1139	I have a simple question for the Council of State: does the Council of State think that the proposition, as presented to the Council of State, was adequate, fully comprehensive and good enough – not least in the light of the broad statement by the Minister of Defence, which has just been given by the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1144	This is a case which is comprehensive in terms of the financial framework, but which is reasonably easy to present in terms of the choice of partners, based on the considerations expressed both in the proposition and in what I repeated here. But because I want to contribute to transparency about how the different options have been profoundly evaluated, I chose to use so much of the post to explain the process, so that we have the best possible overview of it when the bidding round of the actual satellite purchase starts. I understand that Norwegian industry is concerned about this, and I would therefore like to highlight the opportunities that this industry has in this important project as we proceed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1149	In fact, I do not think the Council of State has helped to shed light on this matter. The whole point of the case is the choice of partners – i.e. those who will have both hands on the steering wheel in the development of this satellite project. Has the Ministry not found that a combined Norwegian satellite industry, together with international actors, is in turmoil about the lack of procedure that the Ministry has initiated in this matter – and that has caused the table to be caught in many ways? I would like to ask the Council of State: Has Telenor been formally offered to become a partner based on given requirements specifications, or has they not?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1156	It is true that Telenor, through several contacts to the Ministry of Defence, has been critical of and asked more questions about the procurement process. And I also note that Telenor's criticism is mainly passed on in the majority comment of the committee. I do not think it is easy to ignore the quality, experience, price and lifetime requirements that have been assessed by an external quality insurer – who also made a clear recommendation to the Government. Prior to the final recommendation, the representative Kristiansen will know that we worked long and hard to identify the options for a Norwegian alternative, including from the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1166	The last one can hardly vote. You have not worked thoroughly enough on this matter. When the Council of State now states that it is justified by quality, price and security — what kind of judgment is it going to take to award Norwegian technology and the Norwegian satellite environment? There is no basis in the ministry to claim this, and there are some fictional calculations presented to the Stortinget. They say that the Spanish variant has a price tag of 982 million. kr, while the Norwegian offer that the Ministry has not made to collect the breakage has a price tag of more than NOK 1.6 billion. Technical weekly has a well-documented article, which I assume the ministry has brought with it, which illustrates that the Norwegian option – if the department had taken the breakup to pick it up – would also have had a revenue page that could economically have produced a comparable result in terms of these two solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1171	I can only repeat that there has been a thorough process here – not least with a view to identifying a possible Norwegian alternative. When the final assessment was to be summarised, it was based on uniform requirements relating to quality, experience and price, and it was reviewed by an external quality assurance body that made its recommendation – which the Government then also chose to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1176	Reference is made to an external quality assurance body. This is going to be a shot in the dark, to say it mildly. So you give an external quality assurance order to ensure quality assurance of an offer submitted by the government – a Spanish company that is 40 pst. owned by the Spanish State – and not offered by others – and then quality assurance of what is actually what the Ministry assumes to be a fictitious offer. In my opinion, there is no basis for claiming what the Council of State claims here today. It is very well documented in the Technical Weekly that Telenor, among others. in view of the requirements which they were not given the opportunity to submit to the ministry, could have been a partner which could also have provided comparable financial services to the ministry. It is very broken that Telenor did not have the opportunity to get into the picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1183	I would advise the representative of Kristiansen to review in depth the evaluation of the different options presented by the external quality assurance body. Of course, there is no basis for claiming that normal procurement rules have not been complied with. As I say, the acquisition of the satellite is to be offered. It is probably not the case that the representative Ivar Kristiansen is questioning the ministry's opportunity to make a strategic choice of partners based on an open set of criteria, which I have also explained. I also think that there is reason to stress – call it – the thoroughness of the material presented when the representative Kristiansen refers to an article in Technical Weekly as documentation for a project selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1190	Unfortunately, since this case is full of lack of information on alternative variants, one has to stick to sources other than official documents. Of course, the Council of State is quite right, and refers to the fact that it is formally entitled to go outside of standard EEA legislation for the purchase of defence equipment, and that is an explanation. At the same time, however, other adopted guidelines adopted by the Storting are also being broken. And here you choose again, in a very large investment for the defense, to use variants of purchasing models that arouse a significant degree of anger throughout the Norwegian satellite environment and the technological environment. I actually think – just to finish from here – that this is a matter that deserves the Committee of Inquiry to take a few rounds here.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1195	I don't know if I'm going to interpret it this way, but I expect the representative of Kristiansen not to think that it triggers the anger that Norwegian satellite suppliers can join in and compete for a mission of just over 980 million. kr. It is important for me to stress that both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Industry and Trade worked hard for a long time to identify a Norwegian alternative to operating and owning a satellite. We didn't get into it, and the defense had to make a choice, as indicated by the proposition, because it was important for us to ensure the communication capacity of the defence in the future, not only related to the business at home, but also related to the operations we participate in outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1200	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1218	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2731]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1226	The size goes to voting. There is already a vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1235	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s statement at the Stockholm meeting on 23 March 2010 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1244	During the debate, Mr S. Woldseth put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2010 shall be amended as follows: Cape VerdeCroner1792Norwegian strengths abroad1Operating expenditure, increased by218 000 000 from NOK 1 277 049 000 to NOK 1 495 049 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1383	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1478	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1481	I wonder if we could take the vote on case no. 3 again. The Christian People's Party should have voted in favour of the proposal for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1486	We can do that. The motion for a resolution is put to the vote on topical and urgent subjects of major importance. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-03-26.ana.ud1634e1499	Thus, today's map has been processed. The President would like all the co-representatives to have a good Easter celebration. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled?
