ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e26	The representative of Per-Kristian Foss will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e29	On behalf of the representatives of Jan Tore Sanner, Ingerd Schou, Peter Skovholt Gitmark and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to reintroduce the right to cancel the list candidates at municipal government elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e34	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e56	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. - No one's getting up. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e65	On May 3rd, an overall opposition sent a letter to the Prime Minister and asked him to come and explain the new description of reality that the Government is now joining in on Mongstad. On the same day we received a four-line letter from the Prime Minister, where he announced that he would not; the Stortinget had to wait for a written statement in the revised version. I have to say, I don't think it's gonna last. I think it's above all arrogant of the Prime Minister to answer such a question that involves so much money, and that has been so duly discussed in Stortinget. So the story has had to hear this news in other media, and we've even been able to read on the Prime Minister's blog that you won't spend $5 billion, as previously estimated, but $10 billion. This is essential, new information that would be natural for the Prime Minister to brief the Storting in more detail. But since it is now spontaneous, the Prime Minister will have the opportunity to elaborate on this. Let me first say that I think it is good that the Prime Minister now finally says what the Progress Party has said all along, namely that it is an advantage to listen to professional advice and recommendations before any decision is taken on a technological breakthrough. You can't do that, and it probably has now been painfully experienced by the Government. But there is no news either that there are professional objections to this. They've been there since day one. They have been there since the famous New Year's Year when the moon landing was launched, and therefore it is natural for me to ask the Prime Minister the following question: What new report has the Prime Minister and the Government now read, which has led them to a completely new conclusion? And what report is it that the Storting obviously has not yet received?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e76	The government has reviewed at least two new reports. One is the assessment that has come from Statoil, which has been called the master plan. It came last winter, and there was great publicity around it. We said, and we've made it clear since it came, that this would be thoroughly reviewed. In addition, Gassnova, which is the company that handles this matter for us, has gone through it and made his assessments. And then the government has gone through those assessments and will present its assessments in the revised national budget. So that's, briefly, the time of the matter. With regard to the matter itself, the following is the case: If we are to succeed in having large enough reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, there are two things that are crucial. One is that we manage to reduce emissions from deforestation, and the other is that we succeed in reducing emissions from large point emissions, power plants, gas and coal plants, refinery plants. What we've been saying all along is that what we're going to do in Mongstad is an important project, and we're going to do it in two steps. Step one is to create a world-leading technology center, where we're going to do something that doesn't happen anywhere else in the world, that's to capture carbon from both a refinery and a power plant. It gives us the opportunity to look at two different gases. The second thing we're going to do is we're going to use two different technologies. So the first step in Mongstad is a big and important step in itself. Then we also have to take step 2, full scale cleaning. There's something that's going to be exposed, but we're going to start with step 1, we're going to postpone step 2, but both of these are big and important projects. It is an honest matter that the Progress Party has now been addressed by this question. But they, together with the Right, promoted a proposal to say no to carbon capture in Mongstad, a separate Document No. Eight proposals. So there's a lot of interest in cleaning up now, so they were strongly opposed before the government launched the Mongstad project, something later.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e85	I was very clear that the Progress Party has always warned against the progress plans the Government has put forward for this. We thought this was an airlock. There's a lot of evidence now that we're going from moon landing to crash landing. But this is primarily the government's problem and not the Progress Party. So we've kept our path clean. We have said the same thing all along, as opposed to the Government, which has disregarded professional advice and recommendations, and which itself has defined a completely separate timeline – which is now cracking again. What's even more serious is that the bulk of the population has given a budget for this project of $5.5 billion. It's a formidable sum to which the government has adhered. So we can read on the Prime Minister's blog: No, it's not going to cost $5.5 billion on this, it's going to cost $10 billion. It's not a demeanor, it's a terrible amount of money. How can the Prime Minister explain such exceedance?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e92	Let me just underline: the progress party has not been against the progress plan. Together with the Right Party, the Advance Party has been against the project and has promoted with the Right a separate Document No. 8-proposal – I have it here – arguing that we should get a concession and an emission permit without any requirement for clean-up. So it is not that the Progress Party disagrees with the progress plan, they disagree with the project itself. The right has begun to turn around, but I am dealing with what has actually been promoted in the proposal in Stortinget – namely a separate document No. Eight proposals to say yes to the Mongstad concession without cleaning. In terms of the figures, the situation is as follows: Yes, there is an allocation framework that the Storting has given. But I think now that you're operating with 10 billion, I've been very clear that it's made up of two things. One is the allocation of step 1, and the other is the estimated cost of the design of step 2. The sum of that is going to be 10 billion. Then we have to go to Stortinget. We're going to do that in a revised way, and then we'll see if the Storting gives us that money. I think it does!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e99	There will be three follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e102	The Prime Minister is lying in Stortinget's pulpit. It's very serious. Firstly, the Prime Minister manipulates the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party. What we have proposed is the exact same thing as the Government is now doing, which is to allow the Mongstad gas power plant to be started, and then build clean-up when it's ready. If the Prime Minister had followed up on what the Stortinget did when we dealt with the test centre – Innst. S. No 206 for 2008-2009 was dealt with in Stortinget on 7 May 2009 – he would have known that there was an overall committee behind the test centre. No one voted against – none. So here the Prime Minister should withdraw his statements. I would also like to remind you that when the Storting made the decision, and said yes to allocations of 5.2 billion kroner to the test facility, the master plan for Statoil was at the bottom. That has to be taken into account. So now the prime minister uses it as an excuse for a postponement. Where has the Minister of Energy been wrong when he said in Stortinget both in March 2009 and in May 2009 that the master plan showed that this was technically possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e113	I refer just to the proposal that the Right Party and the Advance Party have made that they should grant a concession and an emission permit without demanding a clean-up. The batches have gradually turned around and changed their opinions. It's an honest thing. As far as the question of the master plan is concerned, the whole point of the master plan that came last year was that we were going to go through it, and that it was going to provide a basis for step 2. Now we have gone through it – first Gassnova and then the department – and then we will present our assessments and recommendations in the revised national budget. Then we do two things. One thing we're asking for is additional appropriations to implement step 1. And the other thing we want to do is to ask for the connection to a further progress of step 2, which makes us postpone step 2, something, but still does it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e120	Siri A. Meling – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e124	Councillor Kristin Halvorsen provided a guarantee of full cleaning at Mongstad. State Councillor Kristin Halvorsen, who is party leader, and who is a member of the government's subcommittee, came with a guarantee, with his hand on his heart. My question is whether this guarantee is given on behalf of the Government, or whether it is given on behalf of itself. Then it must also be allowed to wonder how the Prime Minister and the Government can be so seemingly unaffected by the fact that one now has to do full right in relation to a project that you have given guarantees about, and that one has also described as a lunar landing project. Perhaps it would be appropriate to adopt a somewhat more humble attitude on the part of the Government and the Prime Minister in relation to misleading the voters on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e131	Let's move on to the project. First of all, we do that by going further with step 1, and it's always meant to do this in two steps. As I say, when this project – i.e. step 1 – is due to be completed in 2012, it will be the world leader in its field. It's a technology center that the world looks to. Shell is in step 1, and now Sasol – a South African company – has decided to participate. That is important because they are too high a point in the world. Step 1 is itself a large and gigantic project that contributes to the development of valuable carbon capture technologies. We haven't stopped step 2, but we've said that we're going to spend a little longer on step 2, because both Statoil in its assessment, Gassnova in its assessment and the department in its assessment have come to the conclusion that we're getting a better project. I believe that we would have done the environment a bear service if we had carried out a bad project at Mongstad, step 2. The whole point of what we're doing in Mongstad is just that we're going to create a technology that the world wants to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e138	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e141	The Christian People's Party is concerned about the environment, and we regret that the Government has exposed Mongstad and the Prime Minister's moon landing. What remains of the moon landing is increased greenhouse gas emissions — and that is not a small increase, but it is an increase of up to 2.5 pst. of our national emissions. It's not easy to land on the moon. It will be precious, and so will Mongstad. There is no new information. The Prime Minister said in this Chamber a few years ago that we are developing even more environmentally friendly gas technologies more quickly if we are today launching and using the best available technology. My question to the Prime Minister is: What new knowledge has the Prime Minister gained in recent years that means that what he said and told in the Stortinget in 2000 – then as a representative of the magnificence – is not the policy that the Prime Minister is now leading from the Government office?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e150	So we're on. We spend billions of dollars building step one on Mongstad, which in itself will be a very valuable project where we're going to develop technology and do something you don't do anywhere else in the world, using two different types of technologies and cleaning two different types of gases, one from a refinery and one from a power plant. So we're already in Mongstad. It's very good, and it contributes to the technology development the world needs. So we haven't canceled, but we've done something, step 2. The reason why we're postponing step 2 is more. One is that it is said that it is more technically complicated specifically to do this on a plant that is already in operation, and the other is that assessments of health aspects have also been made. Both of these parts are important for us to go through before we start step 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e157	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e160	The worrying thing about the postponement and delay of both Kårstø and Mongstad cleaning is that it goes into an image so that almost all important road choices and decisions we have to make to achieve our objectives in climate policy are pushed out in time. Under this government, green certificates have only been stopped, so they started again – perhaps there will be a five-year delay. We know that one third of the climate emissions in Norway come in the transport sector. It is then important to ensure that we get better and more environmentally friendly cars, buses, means of transport, but that we also do something with which fuels they go on. The government cut out the main instrument related to biodiesel, and has not created any new fuel-related strategy. It delays the transition to a cleaner transport sector in Norway. In Stortinget, red-green people are voting against proposals for more environmentally friendly public transport, they are voting against proposals for more energy-efficient construction, and they are voting against proposals relating to the rapid replacement of the car park. In addition, we have had a good investment in several combustion plants, and we have developed more district heating in the last ten years, but this is currently torpedoed by the fact that the supply of forest – or garbage, as the eastern countries call it – is now stopped by a fuel tax that helps more combustion plants actually assess the use of fossil fuels in these plants. The point is that two years after the climate agreement, we are further away from reaching the goals we agreed on, than what we did when we negotiated it. Can the Prime Minister now assure us that we will have a strategy to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement? Can he guarantee us – I am not asking for the hand of the heart this time – that we will achieve our Kyoto objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e171	This government has put forward a policy, and will put forward further proposals for a policy that will allow us to meet both our Kyoto targets and, in addition, the objectives we have set for 2020, which go beyond the Kyoto agreement. What the government has done is two things. One is to step up and increase the level of ambition in climate policy by saying, first of all, that we are not just going to achieve the Kyoto target, but unlike the previous government, we have said that we are going to over-achieve the Kyoto target by 10 percentage points. It is important, because it contributes to greater emission reductions, and it contributes to the transfer of financial resources from the rich to the poor world, which is crucial to getting the poor world involved in an agreement, which is crucial to getting large enough cut. So that's point one: we're overcomplying with the Kyoto agreement. It is important in itself, but it also builds confidence in developing countries. The second thing we've said is we're going to reduce emissions by 30 pst. by 2020. It goes beyond the Kyoto period, but we have said that we should do this partly through significant reductions in our own country and partly through the use of the mechanisms contained in an international agreement on climate, i.e. the same mechanisms as are currently in the Kyoto agreement. The third thing we've said is we're going to be carbon neutral. There are three major ambitions, three accentuations of the level of ambition. We are therefore in the process of following it both nationally and internationally through significant forestry efforts, significant cooperation with many countries to reduce emissions there, but also significant measures at home – doubling railway investment, more than doubling the allocation of Enova to renewable energy, implementing the EU ETS, which contributes to the price of carbon in large parts of the Norwegian economy, and thus reducing emissions, more economical gain by generating clean-up and reducing emissions, and also new building regulations that help to reduce the use of energy in buildings. So we're going on both with significant action at home and with significant action out there, and we're going to meet our goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e182	I can't help noticing that the Prime Minister is now saying that he guarantees that we will achieve our Kyoto objectives. It's ambitious. That's not what we can read from the statistics per. the current date of emissions in Norway. But this is possible for the voters to measure the Prime Minister before the next elections. This is not just about buying allowances abroad, it is also about our domestic emissions. But when we buy allowances abroad, it's now proven that only 27 dollars of each dollar we spend on the purchase of allowances actually contributes to climate change reductions. The rest goes to administration, and the measures don't work. Then my question is, is the Prime Minister just as sure that so much can be taken out of the shop, that it's as effective as he's believed in the past? Or is it that we now need a much clearer strategy and actually proposals for this Stortinget that will allow us to get to the technological developments and the changes that are necessary to address environmental emissions and climate emissions in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e191	I think it is necessary to take significant action both at home and outside. Action at home is important, because it is important that we reduce our own emissions. It also helps to develop our own technology. However, significant measures are also important, partly because there are much greater reductions in relation to the money we spend. We can see that, for example. in the case of forests, where we have very large reductions in emissions – large and fast cuts at quite low costs. Then I think it is very important to distinguish between the quotas that are real climate quotas, namely the EU quotas – where little criticism has been made about how they work – that they contribute to real reductions – and the developing countries’ quotas, which are not really climate quotas. There's more discussion. The advantage of developing countries' quotas is that they go to developing countries, and we need to spend money in developing countries if we are to get developing countries into an agreement. There is no doubt that the EU quota system is better than the developing country quotas. The problem is that then we spend money in Germany instead of spending money in India, Brazil and China. We need to spend money in those countries to get them involved, and that is crucial for an agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e198	There will be three follow-up questions – first Nikolai Astrup.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e202	There is no doubt that the government is still the world champion in climate rhetoric, but in results we unfortunately see that it is at the same time – the moon landing, the performance project of Stoltenberg, the quota trade, with which unfortunately it will be very difficult to get ashore, and, not least, that the climate announcement of what we are going to do at home is at risk. The only thing the government can comfort itself with is the rainforest bet, which came on a proposal from the Right. But I want to ask the Prime Minister about the following: Cleaning of both Kårstø and Mongstad is within the reference path for Climate Change 2020. Will the Prime Minister compensate for the lack of cleaning through other cuts domestically? And how will he compensate for the purified CO2 from the testing centre at Mongstad, which will be released right back into the atmosphere until storage is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e212	Firstly, Norway is the world leader in these areas. Just that we're building step 1, and that it's expected to be finished in 2012, is a huge project for billions of dollars that are unique in the world in its kind. So that's point 1. It is not that this has been cancelled. Step 1 is in the box, step 2 is slightly deferred. But it's infinitely better than what the previous government was driving, because they gave the concession to gas plants on Melkoya with zero requirements for CO2 cleaning. We have great ambitions. We follow up step 1 and spend a little longer time on step 2 because we think it is best for the environment and best for the project, while the Bondevik II government did not make any demands when it came to the gas power plant that was opened and started at Melkoya. As far as compensation is concerned, I think I have to clean up the following: the Kyoto agreement is valid until 2012, so this would not have any meaning whether it starts in 2014, 2016 or 2018 – or when it starts. For our other objectives, we have 2020, and then full-scale cleaning should also be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e224	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e227	There is little comfort in saying that you should make demands when you are unable to meet the requirements you are making. This government has also authorised the construction of gas power plants, e.g. in the Goliath field, without any requirement for purification. This government has authorised the construction of two mobile gas power plants in central Norway without requirements for cleaning. So I think the prime minister should be a little careful about sticking to others. Then I have also seen the proposal that the Progress Party and the Right has been promoting when it came to Mongstad. The Prime Minister should like to read it, because the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party was that the Stortinget ask the Government to grant Statoil's application for a cogeneration plant at the oil refinery in Mongstad. So there's nothing negative about CO2 cleaning, either. On the other hand, if you read the settings of St.prp. No 49 for 2006–2007, the Progress Party and the Right will take care of what the Prime Minister is lying about and will say that we are not doing. So the question is, when the government postpones the project in Mongstad, it's because you want to gain experience from the test facility, or is it because the government sees that this is too expensive a project per. tonnes of CO2 in relation to alternative national measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e242	The President must be told that accusing counter-debatants of lying is a form of parliamentary expression that we do not accept in the Stortinget. It is possible to have different opinions without one being accused of that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e245	Let me first take it: the point was that this document 8 proposal was a proposal to grant a concession without making demands for purification. It is perceived that the Advance Party and the Right did not demand purification. That they have later thought that we should still have cleaning, I think it is good. Let's put it behind us and say that all the games on the Storing are for cleaning at Mongstad, even though different parties have slightly different opinions initially. When it comes to the question of whether we are going to make compensatory measures, I cannot quite understand that there is something that belongs to this debate, because we are in any case going to achieve our Kyoto targets by 2012, and reach our targets by 2020, regardless of when start-up comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e252	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e255	We hear the Prime Minister repeats that we are world leaders in Mongstad. I also want to say that we are world leaders in climate change. Kårstø was to be finished in 2009 with cleaning. We were going to bet on biofuels. We have also introduced a biodiesel tax, which means that we have come a long way back there. We were supposed to have 3 TWh on wind power. That goal has been postponed by the Government. We were going to bet on renewable energy. Enova was an important tool, and Enova gets criticised by the National Audit Office – just to mention some of the issues that the Government has broken in terms of climate. The Socialist Left Party joined the government because it was going to put more environment on the agenda. After almost five years in government together with the Workers' Party, SV is completely ribbed for the environmental credibility they had. My question to the Prime Minister is: how does it feel to contribute so strongly to undermining the credibility of a colleague of government on their most important matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e262	We cooperate well in the Government, also on environmental issues, and there is no doubt that SV sitting in the Government has helped us to become even stronger drivers, for example. in the case of carbon capture. I stress that in carbon capture, just what we're doing now is making the world come to Norway. The world notices what is happening in Norway, and step 1 itself is going to be a fantastic technology development project. And then we're going to go on with step 2, but then we're going to spend a little longer time. Enova has more than doubled her allocations. That's why we're spending a lot of money on renewable energy, and so we're spending more money than we've ever done before. Then we're going to step up our efforts in all of these areas, for example. bets on public transport. The image of SV not being passed is incorrect. SV gets a lot of environmental impact, so this government has a very offensive environmental policy in a lot of areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e269	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e272	After listening to the Prime Minister today, I realize that he takes relatively lightly the fact that his prestigious moon landing is at risk. So it's a little bit of a backsliding point for Mr. Stoltenberg, but it's a gigantic retreat for the environment. The fact is that this year we get a new, highly polluting gas power plant that we can now risk remaining standing for a decade without any kind of cleaning. This affects the plans that this government has so far made for domestic contributions to the management of CO2 – most recently the Climate Action Plans, which were submitted for some time ago, and which require cleaning both on Kårstø and on Mongstad. The working party has always wanted – from the turn of the millennium onwards – to build gas power plants in Norway, usually without cleaning. In the year 2000, you wanted it so much that you put in the center government to get it done. The Kårstø power plant stands there today without cleaning as a monument to the gas power plant from 2000. SV thought it was a great victory for the environment at Soria Moria in 2005. When the statement was ready, they sent out a press release, where it said: ‘15 years of gas power plant struggle has ended. The environment won!’ Today, we know that victory was very short - lived. The promise of cleaning has now been pushed to 2018; perhaps it will never happen. So far, there is only one thing that has come out of Soria Moria and the promise of moon landing, and there is a sharp increase in greenhouse gas emissions and breach of Norwegian international commitments. The debate has shown that it is a lot about money, less about technology. What has also emerged is that Statoil's original wish to clean up in 2018 has now become the government's policy. Can the Prime Minister confirm that it is not only Statoil's original plan A that has now been achieved, but that this has in fact been the Prime Minister's own initial plan of progress, and that the final investment decision has been pushed over to the government that must have power after the next election?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e294	Let me underline once again: Step 1, that is, the big technology center to develop new and great technologies for the world, is on track, and it will itself be an important contribution to developing technologies that the world and Norway need in order to reduce their emissions. Step 2 is somewhat exposed, but it is a project we are going to implement. It is not that we postpone it, that our entire climate policy collapses – on the contrary. So, in the climate agreement, we have said that we are going to reduce emissions in relation to the reference path in the 2007 national budget by about 15 million tonnes when forest is taken into account, and then about 1 million tonnes from Mongstad. But it's in 2020. So in relation to that climate objective, the starting time is not what determines. We want to get this in place as soon as possible, but we prefer a good project a little later than a bad project a little earlier. The reason why we're postponing is that it'll be doing the environment a bear service if step 2 on Mongstad becomes a bad project. The purpose is that there should be a project that the world wants to copy. If it stands there as a monument to misinvestment, it will not be something that other countries want to copy – then it will be a bad project for the environment. We want a good project, and then our leading consultants in Gassnova, in Statoil, say that we spend a little longer, we get better quality, better implementation and also more control of costs. It's about doing something that hasn't been done before. We're going to apply this technology to a plant that's in operation, and installing a heavy factory, a carbon capture plant, to a refinery that's in operation, is technologically very demanding, and that makes Statoil, Gassnova, think we're getting a better project if we spend some longer time. We have listened to these arguments, and I think it is responsible that we then say: yes, let's get a good project something later, but therefore in time for 2020, instead of getting a bad project something earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e303	I would like an answer to my question: is it so that what is now going to be the result, is Statoil's Plan A and the Prime Minister's Plan A? I would also like to know what the Prime Minister has to say to the many young people who saw his new year in 2007, who heard the fantastic environmental speech he gave to the National Assembly of the Labour Party that same year, and who saw a visionary politician who was not the old gas power Jens who took power at the polluting gas power station but who now had a vision for Norway. Now the vision is exposed, and the result is not an environmental monument, but it's a monument that emits 1.2 million tons of CO2 per. years – for how many years we don't know yet. What does the Prime Minister have to say to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e311	I think it's always wise just to have one plane, plane A. I don't have a plan B, either now or before, and the plan we put forward was the plan we agreed to be the best. Then there is new information that makes us stand at step 1 – we implement it – and postpones step 2 somewhat, but it does not destroy the project. That's why I also know what was the vision in my national meeting speech to the Workers' Party and in the New Year's, namely that we should be the leader in developing this technology. We're going to be already with the test facility, and then we're going to move on with step 2. So it's a little strange to hear that once we've given the concession to a plant in Mongstad with demands for cleaning and creating a fantastic technology center, you have – what to say – such a fun tone as the representative Højbråten has, while he himself put in a government that gave concession and started operating an equal gas power plant on Melkøya, with zero, absolutely zero and nothing requirements for CO2 cleaning. You have zero ambitions, you never disappoint. If you have ambitions, it's sometimes hard to reach them fully, but we're much better off than you were.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e321	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e324	I must be allowed to inform the Prime Minister that the day we have the technology ready to clean up on Melkøya, it's going to clean up on Melkøya. It was the lead of the Bondevik II government, and it does not seem very much like what the Prime Minister says today. I thought it was strange to experience that we have a prime minister who boasts of a breach of promises. It's strange about Stortinget, compared to SV, who wants to be an environmental party. My questions to the Prime Minister are: When we now know that we will have large emissions in 2014, in 2015, in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, which is not included in the Climate Action Programme, is it only the target for 2020 as a debt? Would you like to introduce new measures during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e331	It is true that the Bondevik government said that on the day the technology is ready, we should also have CO2 capture at Melkøya, that is, at the gas power plant that you authorised, built and started. I agreed. But you said when only the technology is ready, you have to install the technology. The big difference is that in Mongstad we didn't just say that, but we started a huge project to get the technology going, and so we're going to spend billions of dollars – 5-6 billion dollars – to make the world's largest technology center in its turn to test two technologies and two different types of gases. You weren't near doing anything near our step 1, which we're doing at Mongstad. You were not close to thinking about this when it came to the gas power plant at Snow White. Then we go on with step 2, but we're postponing something. Then it's strange to hear someone who didn't think of either step 1 or step 2, criticizing us for reaching step 1 and spending a little longer time on step 2. Both are fantastic projects that contribute to technology development. Once we have provided the technology that is needed, the installation may come at your gas power plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e341	There is at least one propulsion plan to be maintained and that is speaking time. In this meeting, there's only one plan A. I ask everyone to respect the speaking time. Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e346	It is interesting to hear the Prime Minister repeat and repeat that we are world leaders, and that phase 1, which is the technology center, is on track, all the time the technology center is exposed. But it's going to be done. We're all happy about that. The reality is that it gets right so popular on the moon before we land there. I want to ask the Prime Minister a question. It is that Gassnova has estimated that it costs between 10 billion kroner and 27 billion kroner to clean Kårstø. Statoil has estimated that it will cost 25 billion dollars to clean Mongstad. At the same time, for example: Sargas said they can clean Kårsteø for 5 billion kroner, and Aker Clean Carbon himself said that cleaning Mongstad's full scale would be far cheaper than Statoil's estimate. What does the Prime Minister think about it because Gassnova and Statoil believe it is significantly more expensive to clean Mongstad and Kårstø than the technology providers who are going to do the job themselves do?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e353	It is precisely to ensure the cost estimates that we want to spend some more time on step 2. One reason why there's going to be more expensive in Mongstad than looking at some projects that are being evaluated elsewhere in the world is that in Mongstad, we're going to do something that you haven't done anywhere else in the world, at least to a small extent. It is to install this technology in full scale on an in-service installation. It is more demanding to build a heavy factory inside a refinery that is in operation than to build it on a completely new plant that is not in operation. That's at least some of the explanation why it's going to be expensive in Mongstad. So it's quite right that there's a lot of people working on this technology. At the same time, our step 1, that is, when we have the technology center and 100 000 tons handled, will be the world leader and the foremost and greatest in its battle in the world when it is finished in 2012. Then there are many people in the debate who mix it with something completely different, that of course there is carbon capture today. Norway was also the first to go out with it, namely on Sleipner. But it's getting CO2 out of the methane gas, not out of the exhaust gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e363	The statements to the Prime Minister are not related – is it a parliamentary expression that you can live with? Mongstad test centre would cost SEK 5.3 billion when it was adopted at Stortinget in May last year. Now the Prime Minister is talking about NOK 10 billion for test facilities and the design of full-scale facilities, not decisions and construction of full-scale facilities, but design. Does this mean that the Council of State has a consulting company that makes NOK 4.7 billion on projecting a full-scale facility? That's the one question. Mongstad is now being exposed to technology challenges. All the technology challenges that have so far been addressed were known long before the decision of the Stortinge in May 2009. That moon landing could be postponed already in December 2008. Bergen's Official Journal had postponed until 2018 on the front page of the week before Stortinget dealt with this – ergo, this was well known. However, as a consequence of the surveys, the red-green batches in the main hall said that it was not appropriate to postpone full-scale cleaning to wait for the pilot plant's experience. 2014 was a sacred goal. When did the Prime Minister conference with the Stortinge to bypass what the majority of the population then said?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e372	First of all, we want to provide a review and evaluation of the different figures in the revised budget. Then Stortinget gets a good opportunity to go into the numbers, ask additional questions and light up all aspects of estimates and figures. But basically, we can say that the test facility, or the technology center, was estimated to be above NOK 5 billion. There'll be something adjusted up now, about NOK 6 billion. The numbers are going to be revised. Then the estimates for the design of the fishing facility are around NOK 2 billion and of transport and storage around NOK 1.5 billion. But these figures also need to be quality assured and presented to the Stortinget. So the Storting gets the opportunity to go through all of these numbers in the revised budget. At least the last figures are still estimates. That's all we have to go through now and get a better quality assurance of the numbers. The figures provided for the Storting apply. We'll come up with new numbers when we have a better basis for it, and the first round will be revised. It is true that information has been found that this is an ambitious project. We've gone through that, and so we're postponing step 2 by a few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e382	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e385	There is a clear green thread going through the environmental policy of the Left, and it has been for many decades. Similarly, a clear red thread goes through the Workers' Party. For the Workers' Party, oil and gas have always been more important than the environment. It has been very important actually to build old-fashioned, polluting gas power plants. It was so important to throw the left out of the Bondevik I government to get it done, to weaken the pollution law and to build the two gas power plants on Mongstad and Kårstø with CO2 emissions. If the Prime Minister had had had the same commitment here as building, we might have had clean-up already today. But I want to quote what Stoltenberg said in Stortinget on the evening of 9 March 2000. It's probably a night prime minister remembers: ‘Co2-free gas power technology has been around the corner for 10 years. When I was State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment, Thorbjørn Berntsen and I met companies and technology environments who said it was right around the corner. They got a few million -- we believed it. Now it's been ten years, and being right around the corner for ten years is a long corner." According to the record, the hall was cheerful. It is clear that you care much more about oil and gas than you care about climate, since you were willing to throw the government to get to polluting gas power plants, while the climate was ridiculed. Now this corner of the prime minister has been 20 years. It's been ten years since he stood here and ridiculed it. So my question is really: will you still stick to the red thread and ridicule the environmental solutions, or will you maybe turn around and grab the green and bet on what's future, what's actually the climate-neutral solutions, what's actually not gas and oil, but what's renewable energy, which is what we can live with in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e405	First, a little bit about history writing. The working party has always been committed to reconciling economic growth in terms of sustainable development. It lies in the old slogan on growth and protection, and one of the keys to technological development. One reason why we're very concerned about developing carbon capture technologies is that it just unites the world's need for energy with the world's need for lower carbon emissions. That's why it's so important to get both growth and protection, and we need both. Another short note about history is that it's a little strange to hear that it's going to be almost immoral to start a gas power plant in Mongstad, where we use billions of dollars to develop that technology, while it was perfectly possible to set in motion an approximately equal gas power plant on Melkøya under the Bondevik II government without any funds to develop this technology. So I can't quite understand the difference between the carbon that comes from Melkøya and the carbon that comes from Mongstad. The difference is that in Mongstad, we spend billions of dollars solving that environmental problem. You didn't do that on Melkøya. So this is the vertex. I think it was quite well said what I said in 2000. The problem is that you've said that this technology is right around the corner for a very long time, without having any trouble making this technology available. It exists, but it is too little applicable to the projects we want to apply it to in Norway and the rest of the world. That's why we're building technology centers, and that's why Shell, one of the world's leading companies, says that here we're going to use our researchers too, and that's why Sasol, who has a plant that emits 60 million tons, one plant -- it's more than Norway's total emissions and it's high point emissions -- has now decided to be in the technology center, because they see that here there's opportunities to make the corner shorter, round the corner and get to the technology that we're all very much into. So I'm proud that we've managed to create a project, a technology center for billions of dollars in Mongstad, that it's on track, and that the world wants to use it to develop the technology the world needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e414	As a historian, I think it's important to contribute to the correctness of history, so we can contribute to that. Melkøya was as good as adopted when we went to government. Melkøya actually has CO2 capture in part of the production, and I'm now excited if the Prime Minister is going to say that Melkøya is also going to be cleaned with his project, because it sounds like it is. But to quote an ally from the Prime Minister, Kristin Halvorsen, what she said in the same debate: ‘Now, I believe, the Labour Party’s parliamentary leader – who at this time was the current Prime Minister – ‘is about to lighten the enthusiasm of gas power stations’. She goes on to say, ‘What surprises us today, and which amazed us yesterday and before, is what the raw drive of the working party adds up to in the gas power case.’ And... ‘The key point to prevent sensible political cooperation between the Centre Parties, SV and the Workers’ Party is environmental policy’. I totally agree with Kristin Halvorsen. This is also the plug that makes it impossible to achieve sensible political cooperation between the Labour Party and the Left. Why can't you focus on the important things about the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e439	We focus on the important things, because we're concerned about developing the technology the world needs. But again, briefly, about the history: there is no CO2 capture from the gas power plant at Melkøya. What's on Melkøya is something we're already doing with, for example. on Sleipner, which we have been with for 11–12 years in Norway. It's taking carbon, or CO2, out of the methane axis, the natural gas. It happens in the Sahara, it happens in Norway, and there are a few other places. We already have technology for that. We do that on a large scale, there's no problem – it's happening on Melkøya. But what's not happening on Melkøya is what's the big, difficult task, that's to get technology, to apply existing technology, to waste gases, and that's what we're doing on Mongstad. There are two gases, two technologies. That's why Mongstad is so important, and we're doing it in Mongstad, not in Melkøya. That it was finished – well, concession for the gas power plant at Melkoya was given in 2003. It is clear that carbon cleaning could be required. You didn't. My point is not necessarily that it was wrong. My point is that it's just a little bit strange to hear the very moralization of us on Mongstad, when you didn't do anything on Melkøya.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e452	There will be four follow-up questions – first Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e455	The Prime Minister was very concerned about the polluter pays principle when introducing an increased rate of biodiesel, i.e. a tax on an environmentally friendly alternative. The main reason was of a principle nature. On 24 November last year, the Prime Minister gave a speech to the Trade Union, when he said: ‘It has never been such that we exempt everything we like from the fee. I am in favour of work, but I am in favour of an employer's fee. I like milk, but I'm too charged for milk. I like apples, but there is also a fee on apples." Well said! This is a cost-effective approach to the charging area. But then we come to the gas power plant, and then I'm a little uncertain about whether it's just as affordable, because you're not so careful about charging gas power, which, unlike biodiesel, leads to emissions of a large amount of CO2. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e468	I believe that gas power plants should also be made subject to carbon pricing, not in the form of taxes, but in the form of carbon quotas or climate allowances. This means that gas power plants are given exactly the same economic motivation to reduce their emissions. It's going to cost to increase emissions, and it's going to be profitable to reduce emissions. So that's the price they have to pay. I think that is a good system, which the EU has put in place, and which Norway is now part of for an ever-increasing part of its economy, including our power generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e473	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e476	First, when the Prime Minister hassles with the Bondevik government, or the Bondevik government parties, I remember that the Workers' Party also did not propose to require CO2 cleaning, either on Kårstø or on Snow White. Nor has this government required CO2 cleaning at the mobile gas power plants in central Norway or Goliath. So there he should take off his cape-high hat. Then I notice that all the arguments the Prime Minister uses as an excuse for today's postponement were known when the Stortinge decided on the test centre. It appears then that the government has not done a thorough pre-work, or they have misinformed the Stortinget. I'm going to believe the first thing. But we notice that despite the warnings, which were well known in the media, the decision-makers at Stortinget say, which is the premise for this project – and then I quote Erling Sande from the Center Party, which is today the committee leader: ‘It is important to stress that the test centre is not connected to the full scale system in such a way that it must be completed, the tests carried out or the evaluation completed before proceeding. [[...]] One shall not postpone the full scale installation in 2014. Then I ask again: When has the Council of State been convening with the majority of the Stortingen to change the assumptions that the Stortingen gave for test plants and full-scale installations?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e494	First of all, when we decided on step 1, that is, the technology center, we did it based on the knowledge we had. That knowledge is about the same today. So that plant is on track and will be finished – waiting, we'll be told for safety – in 2012. The construction plans are in order, the construction machinery is in progress. So it was always clear that we were going to come back with an assessment of how we were going to implement step 2, or step 2, and that's what the government is now coming to the Stortinget. Of course, then the Storting may have different opinions, but the Government has its assessment, its proposals for the Storting, and our recommendation will be to spend a little longer time at step 2 to do what is best for the environment, namely that the Mongstad plant should be a good project – not only step 1, but also step 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e502	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e505	This has been an interesting history round, but it has also been interesting to see what the Prime Minister will not answer in this room. That's why I want to repeat the question Siri Meling asked earlier, because it's very important for the Storting to know about the state councils that put here, and say something in the hall, put on behalf of themselves, or whether they stand on behalf of the Government. The question that the Prime Minister would not answer was: When Kristin Halvorsen in this room stood and guaranteed – not only guaranteed, but guaranteed with his hand on the heart – that full-scale cleaning would be in place in 2014, did she do it on behalf of herself, or did she do it on behalf of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e510	The entire goal of the Government and the whole goal of the Storting has been that we wanted to get in place not only step 1 in a route, in time, but also step 2. So information has come up, among other things. built on the master plan that Statoil presented over a year ago, the review that Gassnova has had of it, which means that we believe – and it comes to the Government of Stortinget in a few days’ time – that the best thing for the environment, the best for the project, is to spend a little longer time, because it’s better with a good project a little later than a bad project a little earlier. That's why we're changing the progress plan. Step 1 is done as planned, step 2, we're spending a little longer time on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e515	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e518	It will be my pleasure to be able to sum up this debate, a debate that has been marked by a great deal of commitment. There are a lot of people in the room, full of the press and full in the gallery, but there's only one single SV who's been following the last main questions and answering from the Prime Minister. I must also say that there was more to Kennedy than to me by Prime Minister Stoltenberg when it came to the lunar landing project. What says like an unsolved question after this question is: We have an agreement that the Government and Statoil signed in 2006, which clearly states that we should have been cleaning in place in 2014. Is there now a new agreement between the Government and Statoil? There's an unsolved question for Stortinget. And will that agreement be submitted to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e527	We will review the agreements and, if necessary, revise the agreements we have with Statoil, because we will therefore change the progress plan for step 2. Then the Storting will be given a thorough and detailed statement on the matter, on the process, in the revised national budget and be given the full opportunity to ask all the questions the Stortinget wants to ask about the matter when dealing with the revised national budget, also how the different agreements will be handled. I stress again that we are now creating a fantastic plant in Mongstad, the planters are running. Then we also have to do step 2, but we believe that for environmental reasons it is better to have a good installation. Then we listen to the advice that says we get a better facility for the environment if we spend a little longer time, rather than prestige standing on dates and getting a worse facility.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e534	There are still two main questions. The first is from Per Arne Olsen's representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e537	I suppose I can start by saying that you may not have achieved the removal of CO2, but most of the SVs you have at least managed to remove from this room! I don't know if the Prime Minister will be satisfied when I now change the theme, because after 20 questions about Mongstad, it's probably time to talk about something else. What might not be quite so pleasant is that I'm going to talk about another place in the stomach, that's the care of the elderly. If you google the prime minister along with the word "parent care" and randomly choose August in the election campaign, you get 150 hits in one month. It shows how busy the prime minister was of care for the elderly in the election campaign. Then I have also Googled the Prime Minister with the same combination in January, February, March and April this year, and then you get four-five hits a month. Of these figures, it is possible to draw the conclusion that care for the elderly is more involved in election campaigns. At the same time, if you go in and look at the numbers from the SSB, an institution the prime minister is well-known, and if the figures go well, you have to go all the way back to 1954 before you find as few institutional places in the care of the elderly in Norway as you do today. My question to the Prime Minister will then be as follows: When the development in the number of places for elderly nurses is still on the level of the year when the prime minister's well-known father and my slightly less-known father reached the age of 23, while the Labour Party has been in power for 36 years, will he continue to believe in his promises of a shiny old age care, or do you have to calculate a hospital coverage that is still at the 1954 level?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e551	I am very concerned that the state of care for the elderly in Norway is not good enough. That's why we want to give more money to care for the elderly, and we want it to work for more people in our country. Had we been satisfied with the state, it would not have been necessary to present ambitious plans, increase the appropriations and hire more. So at least we agree that more needs to be done in Norwegian care for the elderly. Point 2 is that we've started an escalation. We feared a fairly significant increase in the number of people in care and care during the previous ageing period, and we have set ourselves the goal of increasing by 12,000 until 2015 – that is, continuing to escalate. And so is it that we have now made a proposal for both amended legal text and amended regulation, which is to ensure that older people have some minimum standards in the offer they are to have. We create a new law and regulation that will specify some requirements that should be laid down in the law and regulation as to what older people can expect from care. It looks like something we've done about kindergartens, even though the offers and the law are different, namely that we set an ambitious goal: full childcare coverage. We reached that goal. Now we're going to set a new goal, full home coverage. But then we've clarified that it means either hospitalization or nursing homes for those who need it. So it's not the same type of full coverage as for example. for kindergarten. It is an advantage if many can be at home with care, i.e. home care, rather than necessarily in an institution. There is also a point in relation to institutions: it is not the case that the number of hospitalised areas is necessarily the target. It is important that the elderly get the care they need. Some people may need a few hours of home help, others may need a lot of home help and a lot of home care, and others may come out very well if they have a nursing home, and some people need a nursing home. So that's a variety of offer we're busy with, and we're following up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e566	I thank you for your answer. You could say that something else that characterized the 1950s was the vinyl plates. They were also known for the ‘hack on the disc’. That's how this answer sounded. There's a lot of plans, there's a lot you're going to do, and there's a lot you've said to do. But when the fact is that we're back in the 1950s when it comes to the number of institutions, it doesn't help to say that we have nursing homes as well. Nursing homes are a very good offer, but it is as well-known people who live in a dwelling that they own, and they pay everything themselves, including medicines, etc. So I still want to pursue: does the Prime Minister want an elderly care in the future based on the time of the record player, or a future in which the elderly receive a rights-based care for the elderly, dignity in the care of the elderly, and freedom of choice, as the Progress Party wishes?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e575	I want elderly care adapted to the individual elderly, and that means that it should be very different, because different elderly people have different needs, and it can also vary for the individual elderly. That's why we've been very busy providing more people in the care and care sector, because then we can both provide more home care and more home care, which too many older people are the very best solution. We've been busy expanding nursing homes, because it's too many of the best solutions. But at the same time, we have provided for the development of hospitals. Unfortunately, I do not know the number of nursing homes in Norway in the 1950s, but what I know is that we have expanded the offer to older people in Norway, and we will continue to do so, partly through grants for the development of nursing homes and nursing homes, and partly through substantial funds to the municipalities, so that they can hire more people in care and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e581	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Jon Hunter Gåssvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e584	In Focus yesterday, we were presented the story of four demented patients. Both the Prime Minister and I are healthy and up-to-date today, but if we had been affected by this disease, by the year we could be in a so-called vegetative state and be totally free of will. Someone might have said that it wasn't the big difference! But it tells me about a serious course of illness. When we were boys, the patients got to the nursing home. Today they're going to be in an ambulance. 80 pst. of our nursing homes are demented and also have a number of additional diagnostics. We have 60,000 dentures today, and it will rise to 160,000 in a few years. We need early efforts from competent staff who see the patient as a whole. We're on the form. The 12,000 seats to which the Prime Minister refers are close enough. We need a change of pace. Can we expect the Government to now show its willingness to act and act, so that we can meet the challenge with an increasing number of dentures with a professionally good offer? Or does it have to be a government change?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e597	The important thing is that older people get what they need, and that can vary a lot. That is why we are strengthening and expanding care for the elderly in many areas. It is precisely because there is a lack, it is precisely because many dents do not get the offer they should have, that we are committed to strengthening the care of the elderly both by employing more people in care and by expanding the supply of nursing homes or by providing care for people in nursing homes. But it's also demented that can be done at home if we like. has a day's offer. And we're also working on strengthening day care for demented people. So I experience in this area, as in some other areas, that it's done a lot, but there's also a lot left. The situation is not good enough, so we want to continue to develop care for the elderly in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e606	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e609	Yesterday's Focus shows that a worthy care for the elderly is not only about the number of places but also about quality and competence. We know that good medical coverage in nursing care in nursing homes is essential for the elderly to receive good treatment. According to the Riksrevision, the elderly in Norway have had five minutes extra with the doctor from 2004 to 2007 when they are in an institution. The big question is how to get good doctors to want to work in the care of the elderly. The right answer is a combination of salary at the level of hospitals, professional development opportunities and a state standard of medical coverage, so that the positions are actually established. The employer’s answer is to force the doctor to work two days a week in the municipal health service and to allow the candidates to work with the sickest of the elderly. Does the Prime Minister really think that the answer for a worthy care for the elderly is a combination of forced work and giving the job to medical practitioners without authorization?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e618	I agree that it is important to strengthen the medical coverage in the care of the elderly at home, and fortunately I have also seen an increase in the medical coverage of this type of elderly institution. So there we've got a improvement, but that doesn't mean it's good enough. I would like to have a dialogue on how we continue that escalation. But the crucial thing is that we also need here a combination of more money and more people. And we have succeeded in increasing the number of doctors who work in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e625	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e628	I have a question for the Prime Minister who is also about repeated postponements – for a year, for two years, and now for three years. For it is almost three years since the Government signed an agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left to introduce a dignity guarantee in the care of the elderly to ensure older people's stronger rights and better treatment and care. My question is, where does the guarantee of dignity come from? And will there be money in the municipal bill that will ensure the implementation of the guarantee? I'm not asking what the government has done, or what the government will do – we know that. But when does the guarantee of dignity come? And can we now see the results of the work – of the hearing and everything? I want a date. When's it coming? Three years have passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e633	After all, we had a joint press conference not long ago with the opposition parties, where we launched the regulation to ensure a dignified care for the elderly. Some offers are laid down in the regulations, and we are also talking about changing the law. It has been consulted — that is how we treat laws and regulations in our country. Now the hearing is to be reviewed by the ministry, and then we will make proposals for regulatory changes. Just when that will happen, I dare not say here now, but we are serious and going to come up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e638	We move on to the next, and last, main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e641	Together with the Foreign and Defence Committee, I visited Afghanistan two weeks ago. For one week the committee was with Norwegian soldiers in Mazar-e Sharif and Meymaneh, and we had political talks in Kabul. It was a visit that made a deep impression. Norwegian soldiers do an incredibly solid job. It is important for us to show the soldiers that we support them – we have sent them out – and it is important for us that we get first-hand information about what is happening in Afghanistan. Norway is now changing the device of our military contribution. Norwegian soldiers must train, train, be partners, mentors, and responsibility and tasks must be transferred to the Afghans. Among other things, the Minister of Defence has stated that Norway may be among the first countries to transfer the primary responsibility for security to the Afghans themselves. Such transfer and the entire Norwegian contribution mechanism are based on a pre-requisite that the security situation allows. At the same time, we see that the situation in Faryab, and perhaps especially in Ghowrmach, is serious. We received evidence of this at the latest on Sunday, when eight Norwegian soldiers were injured in battle, two of them very serious. We received firsthand information in Afghanistan that Norwegian forces are fighting every two days. How does the Government plan to meet an increasingly demanding security situation and changing the conditions for the Norwegian contribution? Are you willing to consider changing the device on the contribution, performing other tasks, having more robust units, heavier materials and weapons and more resources if the situation so requires?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e651	Norwegian soldiers have done and do a very important job in several foreign assignments. They have done so for a long time in Afghanistan, they have done so in Lebanon over a period of time, and they also participated for a period of time in the Gulf of Aden. In Chad, we've also had Norwegian soldiers. But now we're concentrating efforts around Afghanistan because it's a very demanding operation. It is important that, in close dialogue with the Defence Department, we assess how best to organize the operation. And it's quite right, as the representative stresses, that in recent times we have turned our efforts more towards training and training the Afghan army. I think that's a very correct and important strategy, because we're not going to solve the problems in Afghanistan unless we can make the Afghans able to take care of their own security. Just what kind of equipment, exactly what kind of soldiers we're going to have in the future, we're constantly assessing, but it's been going on and it's going on in the direction of more training, more training, more officers, more qualified personnel. I think that's the right approach, because it also allows us to transfer more knowledge and skills to the Afghans. Then we're constantly concerned that security is going to be in the high seat. That's also why we have such a close and close dialogue with the Defense, to ensure security all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e658	Just to apprehend the last of what the Prime Minister says in his reply: Can the Prime Minister then guarantee that there will be no reductions in Norwegian strength or a transfer of security responsibilities to the Afghans until the military states that it is sound?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e663	What is the Government's platform is that we should maintain the contribution we have. But what is also the whole approach of NATO is that the aim is that Afghans should gradually be able to take over responsibility for their own security. When that can happen, I don't want to date, simply because I want it to be a question of assessing when we think they're able to do it. So there might be different assessments of it at that point in time. After all, some countries have now declared that they are already going to withdraw, and the United States has said that they want to start reducing their contributions during 2011. I am concerned that what we are doing in Afghanistan, we are doing in close dialogue with the Defence, and I am concerned that we went into Afghanistan together with NATO and will withdraw from Afghanistan together with NATO when NATO believes it is the right time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e670	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first the representative Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e673	First, I find it difficult to criticise the Prime Minister that he has today helped clear the storeroom for SVs. However, in order to follow up the question of representative Eriksen Soreide, my question is whether the Prime Minister is comfortable with today's arrangements and the suspension of the Norwegian defence's Afghanistan contribution, in view of today's conflict situation and beyond doubt in relation to how the situation is going to develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e680	What we're doing in Afghanistan, we're doing based on very close cooperation with and advice from Defense. First of all, we've trained the soldiers in the very best way possible. Secondly, we have provided good equipment. And thirdly, we're constantly concerned about putting the safety of high-seat personnel in all operations. So we might have to change the composition. We've done that multiple times. We've had periods with, for example, Special soldiers, we've had periods of other types of contributions. Just what kind of contributions we're going to have, for example. next year, the evaluation is ongoing. It is also assessed in the light of the needs of NATO in Afghanistan. But the crucial thing is that we have well - trained soldiers there. We have more and more officers there, because they are now increasingly involved in training and training to enable Afghans to take care of their own safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e687	Then we end as far as we started. Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e690	The Prime Minister travels a lot around the world, often with big checks in his pocket. My question is whether he could soon expect to travel to Afghanistan, but then with congratulations and support statements and clarity as to the fact that the country's prime minister actually cares about the efforts of Norwegian soldiers on behalf of Norway and our allies in Afghanistan. It is enough that many have called for the Prime Minister's presence in Afghanistan. Many of us have been there. As I know, the Prime Minister has been in for a few hours. I want to ask if the Prime Minister is comfortable with that. I also want to ask when the Prime Minister has decided to travel and visit our soldiers in war in Norway's service in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e697	Firstly, the Government has contributed and ensured that we have a very solid Norwegian military presence in Afghanistan. That's what we've been doing throughout the last great age, and we're going to take care of it as long as NATO and we think it's necessary, even during this great period. The government and I have on many occasions expressed great recognition of the work and efforts of Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan, as well as the efforts they have made in other foreign missions, for example. in Lebanon and elsewhere. I've visited Norwegian soldiers in Lebanon. I've visited them in Afghanistan, and I'm going to visit Norwegian soldiers again in Afghanistan. Just when that happens, I can unfortunately not say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e706	So one the oral question right over, and we're going to the ordinary question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e713	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has left. At the request of the Minister of Research and Higher Education, this question is moved and answered in response to question 14, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 7, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 2, i.e. first in the Questionnaire. Questions 8 and 9 from the representatives of Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Tor Sigbjørn, respectively, to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for Justice, who has leave. At the request of the Minister of Defence, these questions are moved and answered in response to question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 15, from the representative Torgeir Tåldal to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, must be postponed until the next Question Time, as the Council of State is prevented from meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e728	Question 1 will be dealt with later. The first question to be answered is question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e734	‘In ordinary Question Time on 28 April this year, I asked the Council of State whether she agreed that Ullevål’s practice regarding the rejection of Ruspacents was in accordance with the law. The Council of State referred in response to the Health South-East assessment and Professor Syse's assessment, which the Council of State said: "According to Professor Syse's assessment, hospital practice is not contrary to the law." Does the Council of State still consider Ullevål’s practice to be in accordance with the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e746	As I see the representative Höie's follow-up questions from the Questionnaire last week, he was not satisfied with what I explained in my answer then and my answers to his follow-up questions. Let me immediately say that drug addicts have exactly the same patient rights as other patients in the specialist healthcare service. There must be no doubt about it. At the same time, as the representative Höie said in his reply to me last week, there is no law on mental health protection for the use of coercive detoxification against drug addicts. Such an occasion for compulsive detoxification is not permitted by any law. However, social services law provides for detention, which means that patients can be returned to an institution if they leave it without the consent of the institution. This home only provides a permit for detention and does not allow for forced treatment, as a detoxification would be. As I have understood this matter, it is about whether intoxicated patients referred to Oslo University Hospital, Ullevål for forced entry under the Mental Health Protection Act, can be rejected on the grounds that they are to be detoxified first. Whether there is a basis for coercion of a patient must always be done on the basis of best professional judgement and in line with the law. As the Council of State, I cannot have any opinion on such a professional assessment. The point is to ensure that the patient is properly evaluated and to ensure other treatment if this is considered to be necessary. If this is not the case, it is not in line with the existing legislation. I have received assurances from Health South-East that no one referred to the mental health protection in Oslo University Hospital, Ullevål, shall be rejected without being assured any other follow-up from any other part of the specialist health service or community services, if they are deemed to need such services. I base and expect Health South-East at Oslo University Hospital to follow up the requirement set out in this year's mission document, which I explained in my reply last week. The purpose of such a requirement is precisely to ensure a comprehensive assessment of persons referred to mental health protection. As I said last week, I will follow closely the regional health companies, and that these follow the management requirement of the mission document.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e761	The purpose of this question is not to squander on the fact that the Council of State took Professor Syse for income for a practice that he says in a letter to the Oslo Medical Service is in violation of the law, but to address the fact that if the Minister of Health is not very clear to the service that mental health protection has a responsibility also for patients who have been drugged, I am concerned that a negative development that we have seen, where mental health protection rejects patients who have run away, could be reinforced by a signal from the Minister of Health. This problem is also very well addressed in the work of the Olsen Committee, which was presented on Monday, where the Olsen Committee is very clear that this type of patients with double diagnosis, intoxication and psychiatric illness should be treated in one place. From the regulatory point of view, it would be natural for this to happen in psychiatry. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e768	I don't see the representative Höie as being a kverulant, on the contrary, he has a sincere commitment both to those addicts who are addicted to drugs and to those who need help in the field of mental health protection. In the case of those patients who have a combination of drugs and mental illness, there should be no doubt that they will receive the help they are entitled to in the healthcare system, and I am also concerned about following up this. They must receive treatment either at the institution they are, or further in the auxiliary equipment if they are healthy enough to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e775	Although it is a goal for us to reduce the use of coercion in psychiatry, it is still such that one actually has a kind of right to be assessed for coercive treatment in a situation with a combination of drugs and psychotic disorders. It is therefore very important that it is clear that the right to be assessed for coercion is not undermined by further reference, for example. for treatment provision for drug use, which does not have the same possibility of assessing the use of coercive measures in relation to treatment. I perceive that the Minister of Health agrees with that, and I am very pleased about that. How will the Minister of Health follow the clear recommendation of the Olsen Committee now that this patient group should have a single treatment site, the treatment site that can provide the overall offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e782	In the case of the Olsen Committee, the public investigation was handed over to me this week, two days ago. It's a big investigation. It's an extensive work done there. There are many assessments that have been made, and there are clearly many recommendations that lie here. We're going to go into them very carefully, because this is about a group that is very vulnerable, and we have to do what we can to make them have the best relationships. At the same time, some of the measures in the Olsen Committee have already been implemented. This is particularly important for outreach treatment teams. There are also a number of other recommendations that we're going to go through carefully and see how we can follow up in the best way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e789	So we go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e795	‘14 of Norway’s fastening facilities are located in Eastfold, a cultural heritage it is important to take care of. There is a lot of good restoration work going on today. However, there is no doubt about delays and the need for further efforts. Will the Council of State take the initiative to enable Defence Buildings to raise loans as State Buildings can do?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e802	Defence construction carried out state analyses during 2007 of all 14 national fastening plants, two of which are located in Eastfold. The analyses revealed, as the authorised representative Schou correctly points out, a significant maintenance need. The maintenance need is such that it will not be fully covered by the ordinary appropriations and annual receipts from the fastening works. It is therefore necessary to provide funds over time for exceptional maintenance. The analysis was thus a necessary basis for the implementation of targeted actions. The government considers it important to ensure that fastenings are handed over to future generations in good condition. I'm sure that's the uproar in all political parties. The appropriations have not been sufficient for many years. The government has granted 273 million since 2008. kr for exceptional maintenance of the fastenings, including 88 mills. in 2009 through the Government’s package of measures to stimulate the activity of the Norwegian economy. These are appropriations in addition to the annual ordinary grant to the fastening and defence works’ own rental income from the fastenings, which shall cover ordinary maintenance. Defence construction was established in 2002 as an administrative body under the Ministry of Defence. Under the Financial Regulation of the State, administrative bodies are not allowed to raise loans. State buildings, which are subject to the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church, are a management company with special rules other than Defence Buildings. However, State Building does not have the power to raise loans, either for investment or for the maintenance of buildings managed by State Building. Thus, borrowing is not an option, but I will work actively to achieve the Government’s objective that the fastenings should have an ordinary maintenance level by 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e819	I thank you for your answer. I hear that the Council of State will not work because the same special rules that are currently applicable to State Building are applicable to Defence Buildings. But I also notice that the Council of State is concerned about keeping the funds at a good level, so that we can still restore and rehabilitate. It is such that two of the national fastenings, the Old Town in Fredrikstad and the Fredriksten fortress, are located in Eastfold. However, there are a number of other fastenings in my state, certainly because it has been strategically located, and it is still. Is it possible for the Council of State to consider special rules also for defence buildings, in the same way as for state buildings, and not just to grant funds over the annual budgets? As is known, action packages do not necessarily come every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e828	As I said, it's a special rule for State Building. However, they are not of such a nature that state buildings have the opportunity to borrow. Construction projects for which Stadsbyggen is the builder are funded using two different models – ordinary construction projects and so-called curant projects. Ordinary construction projects are promoted individually for Stortinget. Curant projects are projects in which the contracting authorities themselves cover the rental costs within their existing budgetary framework. Such projects are dealt with in accordance with simplified budgetary procedures on the basis of specific mandates and own budgetary frameworks of the Storting. So in this way, I don't see that taking a discussion about equal arrangements for defence construction brings us to the point the questioner wants, namely how we can solve the challenges that we both see for the fortification works in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e833	I thank you for your answer. In the case of both Fredriksten fortification and Old Town, it is important to protect by using at the same time. It's demanding – it's huge building masses. It is also demanding to bring in tenants who can enter into leases for a long time, on-going and obligating purposes, because the restoration and rehabilitation work is necessarily not adapted to the special purpose they have, namely to operate, to ‘allsang on the frontier’ or to other suitable tenants who currently have some rental in these premises, in particular to Fredriksten fastening. That's some reason why I'm dealing with the problem of having funds on an ongoing basis and over a long period of time, where you don't just see the individual years. One last problem: in my county and otherwise in the country we have old medieval churches, we have mansions, and we have fastening facilities. It requires special craftsmanship that is not necessarily found in those who leave high school — they should be experienced. Does the Council of State have any thoughts on how this competence can be ensured, in cooperation with other Council of State counterparts?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e842	The instruments in force in recent years — in addition to the regular maintenance provided in the budget of the Ministry of Defence — have been supplemented by additional appropriations. Then we focus on developing the fastenings to attractive arenas for both business and cultural and recreational activities. The special question that the representative Schou raises related to continuing old craftsmanship, I experience a whole new discussion, and it's really very difficult to go into this in terms of this format, so we'll get it back on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e849	Then we go to the questions 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e855	This question, from the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Defence on behalf of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e858	‘The debate on changes in the boundaries of the county councils and the location of the county councils shall take account of both political and local democratic considerations. People living in the district need a close and strong police force with an acceptable response time. A solid ground crew is essential for maintaining a decentralised police structure. What guidance signals underlie changes to the boundaries of the County Councils?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e865	On behalf of the Minister of Justice, I have the pleasure of replying as follows: The government attaches great importance to safeguarding both political and local democratic considerations when considering proposals for changes in the county councils. It is the government's aim to secure a police force with a service structure and a crew to care for the needs of the public for service and preparedness. The policy platform for the majority government underpins our efforts to gain more police force out of available resources and further develop the district structure. We want to maintain a decentralised police structure, strengthen the LEN's offices, have more police posts and less administration to get a more visible and accessible police force. We have therefore set up pilot schemes in two police districts to test out border regulations, co-location with public service offices and structured and committed cooperation with the municipalities – the Police Council. The Directorate of Police has been instructed to send individual cases where there is local agreement on the need for border controls to the Department for further processing. It is clarified that the objective of border regulation is to strengthen the capacity of districts to fight crime effectively and to provide the basis for better public service and response time. It is a prerequisite that the proposals are submitted to both municipalities and trade unions. On 26 April this year, the Directorate of Police presented an operational analysis of the police and officers' seat. The analysis confirms that the government’s significant strengthening of the police budgets is now bringing significant improvements to police action. The operational analysis also points to the need to review the organisation of the day in the police and officers' seat. The Minister of Justice is following up the analysis with a performance reform aimed at reducing crime, increasing clarity and a more close and strong police force. The Police Director has therefore been entrusted with the task of assessing the police’s district structure, staffing, work forms and administration in order to build up under this objective. The investigations will be carried out at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e882	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. In the South Trøndelag, my home country, there are now eight lenght men's offices that want to merge into one lenght man's office. This naturally creates strong responses in local communities, both because they are concerned with having a visible near-police in their district, while most people understand how important it is to a police officer who knows the local conditions, and not least the preventative effect of this. It is also expected that there will still be a strong near-police precisely because the Storting has so clearly expressed it. Is it now the case that you want to put down the janitor's offices, put them together and take tasks from the individual, to get a senior janitor on top? Can the Councils answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e891	Much is done to increase the provision of services to the public. This is also why new operational solutions are being developed to improve the efficiency of the administration and thereby increase the operational capacity of the police, to benefit the population and to increase the provision of services. Then, with modified operating solutions, this must be kept from the question of boundaries around e.g. Länsmannskontoret/länsmannsredries. Such questions are dealt with separately and by the King in the Council of State. This is explained in detail in the Innst. S. No 145 for 2005–2006, where the further examination of this type of issue is described.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e898	Let me also stress that the Right is concerned that we are going to spend the money on a strong and visible police force and not on as much administration as possible. In Sweden, a few years ago, they introduced changes in the organisation of police at local level, where there was more centralisation of police. This was done to pick up efficiency gains. Sweden has so poor experience of the changes made that they are now considering reversing the changes that were made at the time. Unfortunately, the security impact of an bystander and local police force in the community has not been adequately organised. Can the Council of State guarantee that the Government will also look at the experience they have gained in Sweden and base it on further work – and not least learn from the mistakes they have made in Sweden, so that we do not have to make the same mistakes here in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e907	It's doing a very thorough job now. This operational analysis has been carried out by the Directorate of Police, and the Minister of Justice is now working on the so-called performance reform, in the light of this work that has come from the Directorate of Police. So basically, the analysis of the Norwegian Police and Lena's seat is the basis for the proposals that I'm assuming will come out of this performance reform. And just when the questioner uses the term ‘centralisation of the police’, it is important to stress that this work has as a fundamental prerequisite to ensure better police provision across the whole country. So we are working on more effective solutions for administrative work, primarily to increase the operational power of the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e915	This question, from the representative Tor Sigbjørn Aussogn to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Defence on behalf of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e918	I would like to begin by stressing that although this question is about a specific boy, the question is intended to shed light on the principle of children who have neither child protection nor police powers to prevent the taking of new criminal acts...
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e923	The President has to remind us that now only the question has to be read up. Comments are given on additional questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e926	Thank you, President! «According to Fädrelandsvennen 27 April this year, a 14-year-old has stolen 25 cars since the summer of 2009. The cars are used for rough driving, usually in rushes. It's a matter of time before someone gets killed. The problems increased dramatically as child protection took over and could not hold the boy in order to prevent car theft and driving. Nor do the police have concrete means of protecting the children who obviously need treatment. What will the Council of State do to give the police the necessary means of power to prevent this boy from becoming a killer?"
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e935	Once again, on behalf of the Minister of Justice, I am delighted to give answers: Let me begin by stressing that the facts underlying the question are not primarily related to the follow-up of the police, but to the actions of child protection and other authorities in so far as they are a person under criminal law. I therefore ask for an understanding that I cannot comment on the specific matter in more detail. On a general basis, I can inform you that the use of a car and driving in a drug-induced condition are objectively criminal offences that can not only be the subject of criminal prosecution, but also allow the police to intervene with the use of coercive measures against the perpetrator. Such coercive measures may include, inter alia: be justified in order to prevent the repetition of criminal offences and thereby protect society and the environment from harmful acts and dangerous behaviour. However, in the situation underpinning the representative’s question, it is a 14-year-old, i.e. a person under the criminal jurisdiction. This limits the possibility for police to use criminal coercive measures. Regardless of this, however, the police will always be able to intervene and stop crimes, acts that represent a danger to the environment or to the individual himself, or where it is necessary to take care of a drugged person. In such situations, the police will be able to take care of the individual until other authorities, for example: the protection of the child, may take over. According to § 4-24 of the Child Protection Act, child protection has the right – with or without the consent of the parent – to place a child in an institution for observation, investigation and short-term treatment if the child has shown serious behavioural problems, including: in the case of serious and repeated crime and in the case of continued use of drugs. Such action may be extended under given conditions. However, I must stress that the further deepening of the possibilities of child protection for coercive measures falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and the Minister for Inclusion. The key element of such situations is the elimination of the underlying causes of the actions and the effective prevention of their occurrence. This is a responsibility shared by several authorities and not just the police. The police, however, want local expertise and their contact network, including: through the police councils, could contribute to the integration of relevant authorities. Child protection, to which the representative refers, will be central in this context, with child protection on many of the instruments to deal with and prevent unwanted behaviour from the paediatric population. In particular, this young person is under 15 years of age. Crime prevention is a high priority task and requires good interaction between levels of government so that efforts can be targeted, coordinated and effective. In the summer of 2009, the government presented a common strategy for prevention, and at the same time, the Ministry of Justice presented the Crime Prevention Action Plan ‘Good Forces’, containing 35 actions aimed at children and young people to strengthen the overall approach to prevention. Prevention requires early intervention, enhanced knowledge anchoring and enhanced cooperation, not only between different public and local authorities, but also between them and their parents. These are the cornerstones of prevention. Our efforts at police councils and the coordination of local crime prevention measures, known as the SLT, are reflected in action plan No. 25, which provides for an increase in the prevalence and quality of these cooperation forums. As of today, the arrangement with the police council covers 341 of the country's municipalities. So the central thing in such situations is that you interact well at local level. This requires awareness and holisticity of all actors in prevention, and I believe that, through both the prevention strategy and the Good Forces Action Plan, we have provided a good basis for improving multidisciplinary, cross-cutting cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e954	I thank you for your answer. But at the same time, we can well conclude that the current situation and the situation we've been in for a few years doesn't seem to change. There is no concrete signal here from the Council of State to address or solve the problems that are now being described across the country in the media. This is primarily about protecting children from a long life of crime and a life of intoxication. Child protection and police are aware of this case with a 14-year-old boy who has stolen 25 cars etc. This is an urgent need. Can the Council of State live with and sleep well with an auxiliaries who in this area obviously play down? Will the Council of State take care to start work – either with legislative changes, regulatory changes or a greater focus on this – in order to safeguard children and the environment in these cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e961	I can't really understand how the answer can be seen as if the government isn't addressing these issues. The whole answer is to describe the different actions undertaken only recently, focusing on this common strategy from the summer of 2009, plus the Crime Prevention Action Plan Good Forces, which contains 35 actions. All of this is geared towards cooperation between departments, between professional groups, in order to be able to make a strong contribution around children and young people who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e966	Thank you again for your answer. But the reason why I'm saying what I'm saying is that the measures described do not solve the acute needs of child protection institutions, for example. to hold a young person back when he says he will be out in the middle of the night. They don't have the opportunity to hold him back, even though they know it means criminal acts. They are not allowed to examine the rooms of these young people, for example: In the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Ireland, Ireland and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom, the United Here there are a number of completely concrete physical conditions that need to be settled. We must ensure that clear demands are made on individuals when the criminal response is to be implemented. It is also the case that the aid we have, which is initially well-suited, needs to be more clearly suspected. The auxiliary equipment does not have the power to keep the children in place to accept the auxiliary equipment available. It has to be changed. Can the State Council continue with the status quo?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e973	I would like to mention the trial project that is now under way in Bergen. For children who commit serious criminal acts, a separate unit in Bergen, such as a probation system, is established within the criminal justice system. We also work with a view to establishing equivalent in Oslo. As this is a case of children under criminal law, the police have not the same coercive means of stopping them in the same way as in the case of persons over 15 years of age. This is due, inter alia, to: together with the fact that it has been considered by the legislator to be unfortunate to apprehend and imprison children. In the framework of existing legislation, a number of practical measures are now being taken to meet the needs of this group of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e978	Then we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e984	‘Uhlens Biodiesel has applied for exemptions from 2nd generation biodiesel produced by animal fat. They request that this type of biodiesel be compared to biogas and have the same tax as this. They've been denied. Several transport companies have invested in vehicle combinations that can benefit from biodiesel because they want to take environmental considerations and reduce costs. This does not apply at least to other foreign actors. One of these is Byrknes Auto from Sogn and Fjordane. Why won't the State Council make an exception for this type of biodiesel tax?'
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e991	The government facilitates the use of more environmentally friendly fuels through research and development, and through the design of charges for the use and purchase of cars. Climate-neutral fuels have a full exemption from the CO2 tax. This also applies to all biodiesel, although there are uncertainties and wide variations in the climate impact of biofuels. The car diesel tax, on the other hand, is an user charge. On a principle basis, all road users should pay user charges equivalent to the costs they incur to society in the form of accidents, queues, noise, wear and tear, etc. Excise duties will reduce the extent of such undesirable effects. The costs associated with this are independent of the type of fuel used. As from 1 January 2010, therefore, half of the biodiesel car-diesel charge was imposed and the fee is to be escalated to a full fee in 2011. The user charges on fuels are based on the polluter-pays principle, and such green taxes are an important source of income for the country. In 2010, the fuel and automotive diesel taxes amount to approximately NOK 16 billion in tax revenue. If these revenues were to be eliminated over time by replacing traditional fuels with alternative fuels free of charge, any loss of income would have to be covered by increased taxes and charges, or reduced appropriations for many good purposes. The prevalence of alternative fuels only based on exemptions from user charges will not be a sustainable solution over time. This suggests that alternative fuels need to be imposed user charges in line with the car diesel and petrol taxes over time. However, I have notified that it will not be appropriate to introduce a specific user charge for electric cars or user charges for biogas during this large-scale period. The government is facilitating the development of 2nd generation fuels through a scheme to support the development of environmental technologies under Innovation Norway. For 2010, it's earmarked for 100 million. kr for the development of 2nd generation fuel. In addition, the national biofuel placing on the market is increased from 2,5 to 3,5 pst. with effect from 1 April of this year. It has been notified that it is aimed at introducing sustainability criteria which require, inter alia: the climate impact of biofuels in 2011. This may help to promote the use of biofuels with higher climate performance. In view of the uncertainty surrounding the taxation of alternative fuels following the introduction of the biodiesel autodiesel tax, the Government has announced that a review of the principles applicable to fuel taxes will be carried out in the context of the 2011 State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1005	I thank you for your answer. The refusal to apply for an exemption from a motor vehicle tax refers to the fact that biodiesel should have the same charge as car diesel because of its costs in terms of accidents, queues, noise and road wear as well as emissions to air. This is, in my view, a bad foundation. Biodiesel produced by animal fat must be compared to biogas and must have the same tax as this. It is clear that it would be a fair system that can be defended from an environmental point of view. If I don't think wrong, remove Sigbjørn Johnsen's biodiesel fee the last time he was Minister of Finance. Now he is back as Minister of Finance and reintroduces this fee. What has changed since he was Minister, when it concerns taxes on biodiesel?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1014	I would like to refer to the quite extensive discussion which took place last autumn on the introduction of user charges for biodiesel. And as I said in my post, half a fee was agreed for this year, and then one in the 2011 budget will propose escalating to the full fee. It is true that I contributed to the introduction of a tax exemption test scheme to obtain biofuels, but that is a slightly different story.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1019	I thank you for your answer. Many carriers want to take environmental considerations, and emissions from transport are significant. Biofuels — biodiesel — are an important means of reducing this. Converting to biogas costs NOK 300000. I know that the state is engaging in large subsidies in public transport, and that means that many public dollars used for costly environmental measures could be used much more socially useful, e.g. to a biodiesel conversion, if biodiesel had the same charge. Byrknes Auto in Sogn and Fjordane, which is one of the largest transport companies in Norway in the case of thermo-transport, has reconstructed several road trains in order to benefit from biodiesel, both in order to take environmental considerations and to reduce fuel costs. All of this is possible if you can get a fair tax on biodiesel, which is the same as biogas. Does the Council not see that these are good arguments for removing the biodiesel levy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1028	As I said in my answer, biodiesel is exempt from CO2 tax, which is the environmental tax. However, as I also said, it is necessary that regardless of fuel in principle, user charges should be paid, as many drivers – a little depending on what you are driving on today – are charged. As I announced, we will go through the whole of this in connection with the 2011 state budget. In addition, the blending obligation for biodiesel, which is now increasing, could also increase the use of biodiesel, while introducing sustainability criteria, would further stimulate the use of climate-friendly fuels. However, the user charge is in a slightly different class, it is the CO2 tax that is the important environmental tax in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1042	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘It has become known both through meetings and through the media that Statkraft is facing a very large investment programme in the coming years. This is also something that has been known over time. These are investments that will go largely to investments in renewable energy. State power is a state company in which the Government has for many years pursued a policy that has resulted in significant withdrawals of dividends. Does State power have enough available capital to make future and planned investments in domestic and foreign countries?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1051	State power is one of our largest and most important companies. They manage significant Community resources which are desirable for the benefit of the entire Norwegian community, and the return on activity must be seen in relation to other Community tasks to be solved. This has been the main rationale for the dividend policy pursued by the State towards the company. In its ownership report, the government has said that the main task of Statekraft is to be an effective producer of power in Norway. Furthermore, it is foreseen that State power will lead Europe in the field of environmentally friendly energy. The company should therefore be able to participate in industrial development in Norway and Europe. The government expects the company to be at the forefront of developing and upgrading environmentally friendly power generation in Norway, and to be among the first to use new environmentally friendly energy sources. This has been followed up in the Soria Moria II Declaration, where the Government says it will facilitate the further development of State power as an engine in renewable energy. These objectives shall be achieved on a commercial basis. I note that the exchange policy towards Statkraft has so far not prevented the company from developing in line with these frameworks, and the company has also invested significantly in recent years. As in any company to be operated on a commercial basis, it is up to the board of directors to further develop the values of the company within the strategic framework set by the owner for the company’s operations. On the basis of this, the Government of Statkraft last year presented its strategy towards 2015 to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. The strategy was threefold. On the one hand, Statkraft would continue to be an industrial developer in Norway with a focus on renewable production and, on the other, develop its role as a ‘turning producer’ in the European energy market and, on the other hand, as a ‘global green developer’ through SN Power. At the same time, the board asked for an equity deposit of DKK 8 billion and a downward adjustment of the dividend policy towards the company from today's 75-100 p.m. up to 50-75 pst. of the surplus. This will support the continued expansion of the company, both in Norway and internationally. I believe that there is good reason to take the time to carefully evaluate these proposals. Power generation, especially in the renewable sector, is a very long-term business. As I see it, the government is now spending time on these issues, not significantly inhibiting the long-term development of State power.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1064	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What is problematic is that it takes so long to provide answers to the recordings that have been made. I just want to be allowed to quote the director Arvid Basic gender in an interview with Finansavisen on 16 June 2009: «Statisfying power may result in more profitable projects if the State does not change the company's dividend policy.» Furthermore, I would like to point out what Odd Vanvik stated to the Business of the Day April 26, 2010: ‘It is extremely disappointing to have a state owner who does not provide capital when we need it and who conducts a dividend policy that drains the profits every year. It is clear that the company is characterised.» I would like to ask the Council of State to supplement it further when it can be expected to receive answers to the input from the State Power to the State regarding the dividend policy and the injection of equity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1081	First of all, I don't think we're going to be ashamed that we're taking good returns from Statkraft. This is the property of the community. Now I know that the questioner and the undersigned disagree on how much the community should own the company Statkraft, but as long as we own it, it is the community to which these profits should go. So it may well be that it is a proper allocation of the community's wealth to leave some more of the capital in the company or to add new capital, but it is not given without saying. Although Statkraft should have profitable projects and profitable investment strategies, the country’s money may be placed even more profitable elsewhere. I am a little surprised that the questioner's party is asking that the department be generous with capital when a state company asks for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1090	It doesn't take the Council of State to be amazed, because it has to do with using the community's resources in a sensible way. It also applies in business and investment. Several of us have come to realize that there are some very good projects that Statkraft wants to enter, and that they are about to enter. But as a result of the state's dividend policy in recent years – it's through several governments, it's not just this government that has led what I would call a relatively brutal dividend policy – the company has trouble self-financing the projects they want to go into. My question to the Council of State is: When can the company expect an answer? The state that owns the task of being at least a clean owner, and it has repeatedly said that he wants to be. Then it is also important when it comes to such requests, when it comes to such strategy papers, from such an important company as Statkraft, that it is answered to it. Now we see that it is over a year since this was presented. When will the Council of State give an answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1099	Let me first, if the President allows it, defend both current and former finance ministers who have taken advantage of Statkraft. I believe that these are the resources of the community. This is an eternal resource, the power plants are built and paid down. The water runs as long as there is precipitation, and this gives great values which of course should benefit the community. So there's another question: are you going to use some of this surplus, or in so far as another surplus – we might as well have spent money from the oil fund surplus – and put into Statkraft to increase their muscles to implement large investment plans? Well, this raises major issues related to the role of State power both in Norway and abroad. There are questions about how to exploit the company’s competence, the possibilities for conversion into its extensive activities, and, of course, the risk assessment of the investment projects to be carried out by the board. We'll spend the time we need to make decisions about this, and the answer will come when we're done with that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1108	The President shall not interfere in the dialogue, but only with the fact that dividends are also determined by decision of the Storting, in which many lots have participated. Let's move on to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1116	I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The situation in the tourism industry, and perhaps especially in the hotel industry, is serious. Leaves and notices about this have been sent from many companies. The Council of State will contribute, for example: proposals for lower taxes and taxes and a more flexible regulatory policy to improve the competitive position of industry?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1125	I answer this question as the responsible state council for the overall travel policy, as I assume that the question comes up as a result of the difficult situation several travel businesses have come into due to the ash cloud from the volcanic eruption in Iceland. I have been engaged in having updated information on the consequences of the volcanic eruption and have therefore been in constant contact with relevant business organisations since the situation arose. Fortunately, Norwegian business has shown good adaptability and willingness to cooperate on the challenges posed by the volcanic eruption. The tourism industry is significantly affected by the situation in air traffic, and although conditions now appear to be normalising, it does not necessarily mean that everything is as before in the whole travel industry. I will ensure that I have good information on the impact on the tourism industry also in the long term and will keep assessing whether it is appropriate to introduce specific measures. So far, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, in dialogue with Innovation Norway, has assessed the use of the funds allocated to the marketing of Norway as a travel destination. Innovation Norway has redeployed its available funds to strengthen its marketing efforts ahead of the summer season in the Norwegian, Swedish, German and Dutch markets. These markets are chosen because they represent large customer groups that do not depend on aircraft to come to Norway. Last year, in the light of the turmoil in financial markets, we managed to increase marketing efforts in the near markets. We learned that this had a beneficial effect on the tourism industry in 2009 and hope to achieve the same effect for the summer season 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1136	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now it wasn't just what we've been experiencing lately, which made me write the question, because it's been a negative trend in the last few years when it comes to the number of nights spent. After I wrote the question and delivered it, there was a nice article in the evening post on Monday that tells a little about this. There has been a downward trend from 2007, and the number of overnight stays has not been as low in many years as it was in 2009. And when the number of days spent in Norway decreases, it increases, for example. in our neighbouring country Sweden. Travel life is an important industry. That's the fourth largest industry, as far as I remember. The travel industry employs many people and is important to the territories. It means women's jobs, summer jobs and part-time youth jobs. It's generally a good district policy to be good at this, and that's what I'm asking for. And then my question is about e.g. part of the things I mention in the main question, can make it easier. The next question concerns Innovation Norway, whether our money is being used properly in the marketing of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1149	I believe that we have a great unsolved potential for developing Norway as a destination for travel life. And this is about a lot of things. The business structure — the business structure of the tourism industry — is, of course, about the marketing of Norway as a destination, and it is about developing the experiences that tourists demand. So we have to use a lot of tools to get it done. We now have a full evaluation of Innovation Norway. Inside it, of course, travel life will also be, so that we can hopefully learn from it how we can get even better. We see that we are about in the middle of the team in the Nordic region – Sweden is increasing, Denmark is decreasing, and we are lying about stable. However, there may still be a great job to do to make Norway visible and make foreign customers aware of Norway as a possible destination for travel life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1156	Stable and stable – I don't know. In 2007, we had 8.2 million overnight stays, and in 2009, i.e. two years later, we had almost 1 million fewer overnight stays. So that's pretty big numbers we're talking about. And when we know at the same time that we spent $245 million. kr on marketing last year and Sweden approx. One hundred million. Swedish kroner, maybe we should use the money a little bit differently, for example. align them with other groups. I'm reading what Innovation Norway says, that you've done the right thing, but I'm looking at Sweden, they've done things differently. They've looked at what they've done in the past, and then looked at what you can do in the future, and change. And they're increasing. In addition, there are some things we can do to make it simple, for example. harmonise alcohol taxes, reduce travel tax from 8 percentage points to 6, eliminate the differentiation of the VAT rate on food – many such things.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1165	I think the general framework conditions for business are important for the travel industry, as for everyone else, but I think there are also some fundamental tasks in restructuring the industry, getting larger units, getting more impact and bigger muscles. We're a high-cost country, and we're going to stay -- it's our standard of living, which is about having high wages. Then we must be more productive, more efficient and have more unique products than those that can offer cheaper destinations. We see that the 2009 crisis year has turned out to be too many countries. So I think it's a little difficult to use 2009 as a fascination if we've succeeded in our travel strategy. I have great ambitions for the travel life policy that the Government has led, and my predecessors have also significantly increased the commitment to this. In cooperation with the travel industry itself, I am absolutely sure that we will be able to unlock much of the potential we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1177	This is a question to the Minister for Transport: ‘Norwegian road network and Norwegian rail network are due. This has been happening for many years and under many governments. But it is in the years from 2005 with this government that the maturity has increased and that the situation has deteriorated significantly. How the government manages maintenance, measurement and reporting targets and the need for action seems unclear. What are the arrangements made by the Council of State to improve the overview of road and rail maintenance and to implement measures to stop the deterioration/removement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1186	The Ministry of Transport has asked the State Road Administration to make an assessment and, if necessary, to propose a better way of quantifying the loss on the road. In this context, it will also be considered whether an overarching maintenance status indicator can be developed. The Ministry of Transport has approved the mandate, schedule and organisation of a project to be completed during 2011. During 2010, the State Road Service will make a detailed recording of the technical maturity of tunnels and bridges on the national road network as a basis for the plan proposal from the transport modes. The records will also cover the state of tunnels and bridges on the county road network. This will form the basis for work on the roll-out of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023 and the Government’s assessment of the ambition level for reducing the maturity of the national road network. When it applies to the state of the network, I refer to the information I gave in Stortinget on 9 March this year and the subsequent debate in Stortinget on 20 April this year. As I explained in that context, the biggest problem for Norwegian railway is that the standard on the railway network is too bad in many places. This applies in particular to the most central routes, the most trafficable. This has resulted in a lack of maintenance and renewal over many years. In 2006, the Railway Agency engaged the German Railway Expert to identify the need for maintenance on the Norwegian network. The result of this study was later used in connection with the budget proposals. In retrospect, the consequences of the wear down of the most central routes have been worse than previously anticipated by the railway system. It is more difficult to see the consequences of wear and tear on the technical installations, as several of the installations are nearing the end of their technical life. The railway system has now started work on a new review of the need for maintenance of the network, as a basis for the roll-out of the NTP in 2013. In the meantime, whether or not there is a need to increase the appropriations for maintenance beyond the NTP schedules will be assessed in the context of the annual budgetary proposals. The Ministry of Transport has now had a thorough discussion with the Railway Agency in order, if possible, to carry out more maintenance in 2010 than the 2010 budget provides room for. I am pleased to announce that there will be an additional commitment to the Railway Agency in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1201	Thanks for the answer. It is excellent that some grips are being taken on the roadside to get a better overview. I think it might also be necessary on the railway side. Clearer measures are needed for what is well maintained and what is well maintained track. There is also a need for clarification as to how the targets are set, and not least as to who sets the targets, and how they are to be measured, to verify what is actually the situation in relation to the targets set. Should not other than the stations responsible for running operations be responsible for the measurement? Should we not soon put in place a comprehensive transport supervision that also covers the road side, where perhaps the deficiencies are greatest, in order to obtain a more independent, stand-alone measurement of whether the roads actually meet targets and whether the railway network actually meets targets?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1208	There is good competence on the road in the State Road Service. I believe that this project to be completed in 2011 will meet at least some of what the representative Sortevik here asks for on the road. On the railway, it has been a review of its own in 2006 when it concerns the need for maintenance, which was made by German expertise. Despite this review, which was also followed up in the national transport plan, it appears that a more thorough round is now needed. It has not been shown at least the winter and the cold.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1215	There are many studies showing that there is a need for far more comprehensive measures than the one contained in the recently adopted national transport plan. I now stand here with the state report from the consultant engineers, who have produced a state report on Norwegian infrastructure, also for road and rail, and on a scale from 5, which is good, to 1, which is bad, the roads get 2,5 in character and the railway 2. This is worrying. That's why the second part, of a two-part question, is how the time horizon and the plans are to stop the decay and remove the lag. What is the plan for getting road and rail up to a satisfactory level within a reasonable time? How long will the Government spend to cover today's aftermath on road and rail maintenance?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1220	Now let me do the railroad first. So there was the original plan $14 billion for maintenance over a ten-year period. That's what the Railway Agency asked for. They have now said that they can carry out this maintenance in a shorter time – eight years it is suggested. We have the ambition to follow up in this way that we already in this year's revised budget will have a further promise based on what can be done now. But then there's a new process going on because it turns out there's a need for additional maintenance. When it comes to roads, the aim is to increase the maintenance year by year, and then, when this project is completed, comes the big round of attention to the need for maintenance in connection with the rolling of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1227	Questions 7, 8 and 9 have already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1233	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘The clarification of the part-line issue in the Barents Sea offers great opportunities for the Norwegian oil and gas industry. It is important that Norwegian authorities show an active role in relation to the future exploitation of these marine areas. In the light of this clarification, will the Council of State expedite the notified notification of petroleum, and when will we be able to expect it to be submitted to the Stortinget?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1242	I think it's nice to have a question about this, because I have to say that what happened last week, and what some of us have been doing for some time, is great, and that's important for Norway. Now being able to also talk about it and discuss it, does good. I perceive that there is a positive framework around this, and that is also in the question from the representative Meling. It is very positive that after 40 years the Norwegian and Russian negotiating delegations have reached agreement on the Barents Sea and the Polhave. However, before the agreement is concluded, it shall be signed and ratified in both countries. Ratification takes place through the approval of the agreement in the parliaments of the two countries – the Grand Duchy of Norway and the Duma of Russia. The consensus with Russia opens up completely new perspectives for North cooperation and development, resources, business, jobs, knowledge and well-being. It provides the basis for increased activity and cooperation between Norway and Russia also in the petroleum sector. An important element of good, long-term management of our petroleum resources is a gradual approach to new areas. We are now in the start-up phase of the work on an impact assessment for the sea area at Jan Mayen. We follow the progress plan related to the issue of the petroleum activity outside the Lofoten and the Western Sea. Resource mapping in the Barents Sea is an important element of the Government's strategy, both up to the North and in petroleum terms. Therefore, when the agreement is final, it would be logical to also identify this area. The process for this, including any impact assessment, will follow the usual procedure, as has been done for other parts of the Norwegian continental shelf. In the big message the representative refers to, and I am now working on, about the petroleum activity, I will place the agreement with Russia on the dividing line into a Norwegian petroleum perspective. It is my assessment today that the time period I have outlined for the notification of petroleum is well adapted to a realistic timetable for the final clearance of the dividing line against Russia. I am therefore still aiming to submit the notification of petroleum activities to the Stortinget at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1257	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I record in relation to the previous response regarding the progress of the kerosene message that it does not come at the end of this year, but early next year. What matters to the Right is that the Government is showing impatience and ambition in these new seas. It's important to us that we have the resource base mapped. It is important to us that we get to be early on the road in cooperation with the Russians to set environmental standards, to use optimal technology on the activity in these areas. The Right believes that it is important that Norway and our authorities are on the road early. What we fear most of all is that we should see the same thing in the future as we have seen since 2005, that the Government does not make visions, strategies and goals regarding the development of the petroleum industry visible in these new areas as well. So I'm satisfied with the answer. But can the Council of State guarantee that the notification of petroleum will come early next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1264	Now, dates are becoming an essential part of Norwegian political debate. We've seen that in the last few years, and not least in the last few days, maybe. In what I said now, there was obviously no drama about the date. But I have for myself thought a little bit in the opposite direction to what was in the question from the representative Meling, that if, for example. A ratification in the Duma in Russia is kind of slipping out, I think it might be a little silly to finish the reporting before one had the frames in place and knew that the formal was also put on the question we are now discussing. So what I have in answer to that is a pragmatic thinking about how we best deal with these questions. I believe, as the representative Meling, that what is now happening is very exciting, and it is important that we in the Grand Duchy discuss this through and think through what attitude we should take towards these new areas. I also want to do that through the big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1271	I thank you again for the answer. I understand from the negotiations that have been with the Russians that there will also be some underlying agreements on how we imagine the management of resources, including petroleum resources, in cooperation with the Russians. I don't know how much the Council of States can say about this, but I wonder if the Council of States, if he has the opportunity to do so, might say a little about the principles underlying this administration together with Russia, and perhaps when we can expect such a kind of agreement to be published.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1280	In that area, we've already come very far, I'll say. On the most important question, we're done. What we could imagine was that in Norway we dealt with these questions about cross-border findings in the same way that they do some other places in the world: that a close-up taps from each side and has no common resource management. We have good historical experience in Norway, in particular with the United Kingdom, in making agreements about it. It is also part of the agreement now. This means that if one side of the border is made, the other country has to map and make up its mind about what the other country thinks is on its part in terms of volume. Then we have procedures to move on from it, where the interests of both countries will continue to work together to create a plan for the development of the area. I believe it is a very good, real framework in that area of this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1291	‘According to an article in the Official Journal of Bergen on 27 April, there will be unpublished reports from Statnet dealing with two more environmentally friendly alternatives to the planned air voltage between Sima and Samnanger. Part of the contents of the reports are set out in the 2006 concession application and the 2007 supplementary investigation. Is the Council of State aware of the content of these reports and will he help them to become available to the public before the government concludes in the complaint case on the line?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1298	It appears from the documentation provided by the Ministry that, during the review of the new 420 kV power line from Sima power plant to Samnanger transformer station, Statnet has assessed three other possible main routes with which the company has not found the basis to proceed. As the transmission system operator of the national transmission system and responsible for applying for the deployment of transmission lines, it is up to the country to identify alternatives in close contact with local and regional transmission system operators in order to ensure the coherence of network planning at local and national level. The material used by the Ministry as the basis for its review has been the main solutions under consideration and a justification has been provided for the use of the concession option, while other alternatives are not pursued further. The NVE has assessed this, and I support the NVE's assessment that it has been done in a good enough way in this power line case. The security of power supply is the most important thing for me when we are about to secure the power supply to Hordaland. It is not likely that the three other possible main routes are not good enough from the point of view of security of supply and from the situation of the total Norwegian power system. As far as I am concerned, Statenett's investigations have been published as far as possible without conflicting with the legislation applicable to the protection of information in the interests of the security of power supply. We are all well aware that detailed overviews of the central and regional network with transformer performance, voltage level and transmission capacity are not disclosed to the extent that this is required by the emergency regulation in the power supply. With regard to the publication of documents in general, Statnett is subject to the disclosure law, and I therefore assume that the company follows the rules of the law in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1311	Then I draw the conclusion that the Council of State knows the reports. This is a huge natural intervention. It's a difficult decision to make. The alternative, called fjord cable, is a very expensive alternative. The option here can be in the order of $30 million. kr more expensive and upward. What's a bigger problem, I think, to create confidence in the processes, is that so much of this is kept secret. I understand that it is important to have basic security systems related to our electricity supply, but very many of the questions that have been raised and that have been asked by Bergen's Official Journal do not want Statnet to answer. They say first they have to answer, and then they don't. My question is whether the Council of State will help to ensure that all information that the public needs on the choice of lines – not on the general power supply – will be provided in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1322	I have no intention or ambition that there should be any unnecessary secrecy around these questions. I think the discussion that goes around the line is interesting; it's a kind of debate that's needed in a society before decisions are taken. So yes, the information that is naturally made known on that question should be made known. So I'm just referring to the constraints that we have to admit are there in relation to preparedness questions. In terms of the three options, i.e. Sima–Evanger, Odda–Samnanger and Sauda–Samnanger, I don't think we're going to dramatize or make the evaluations around those lines into something very exclusive or almost secret. There are assessments that have been debated. I've been confronted with them in different contexts, and I can come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1329	There is a lot of evidence to support the retention of information by Statnett. There are many questions that are not on the stand, but that go on the trajectory and information at the various trajectory choices that are being held back. This is a major and important issue for important natural areas in Norway, which is in a way our national heritage. So my question is again whether the Council of State will help Statnett to answer the questions that they cannot with the law say that we should not answer this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1334	I can repeat what I think I've said twice now. I believe that Statnett should comply with the Public Relations Act, to help answer questions that are asked. Then there are some questions about these issues that are important for the power supply, and that makes there some information that it is not natural to publish. But in addition to the disclosure law, and that should and should be the case with Statnett.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1344	‘On 26 April 2010, at a meeting between Rogaland and Haugaland operators, Gassco stated that today’s Norwegian base forecasts show reduced resource access to the Kårstø gas plant in 10 to 15 years’ time. As a consequence, there will be fewer investments in the Kårstø plant. However, this is not a phase, but a prognosis, and Gassco hopes for a more proactive approach from political authorities to prevent the decline. What are the prospects and visions of the State Councils for the petroleum industry’s land-based process facilities?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1351	The land-based process facility of the petroleum industry is part of a large value chain. This must therefore be seen in the context of the development of the whole petroleum sector. Continued access to processing plants requires continued production. The government's objective of maintaining oil and gas exploration activities, providing the oil industry with access to interesting exploration sites and facilitating new field development and increased extraction rates in existing fields is therefore important in order to maintain food access to land-based processing facilities. Good and regular access to the search area is necessary to ensure further activity on the Norwegian base. In order to extract the petroleum resources available on the Norwegian continental shelf, it is first necessary to search for and detect undiscovered resources. Therefore, exploration activity is an important indicator of future output. Authorities wish to facilitate a proper level of activity on the continental shelf through the concession system. Given the large investments required to build new gas infrastructure and the relatively low transport costs of existing systems, oil and gas companies will have incentives to use existing gas infrastructure when assessing different evacuation options for new gas. There are two characteristics of the Norwegian socket that will affect the development of the gas infrastructure in the future. The development of new areas north of existing pipelines will require new gas infrastructure, while falling production from existing gas fields. The period 2013-2020 appears to be characterised by a high level of utilisation of transport capacity. From the time it is found on a Norwegian base and until the gas is ready to reach the market, it takes at least 10 years of experience. The capacity situation in Norwegian gas infrastructure after 2020 is therefore dependent on decisions taken by authorities and rightholders now. Such capacity situation now appears to open up vacant capacity in the existing transport system from 2020 onwards, as a result of the drop in fields from plateaus, and the production of some areas leaving plateaus is falling rapidly. That is why I am committed to having an active search policy and to facilitating the maintenance of production, so that we still have access to the processing facilities and receive important revenues for Norway for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1362	There was a lot here that I think I could almost say myself. Therefore, I choose to interpret it as positive that the Government wants to maintain the level of gas at today's level to ensure resource availability. But, of course, one has to look at developments in relation to the reasonable use of the infrastructure. I think that's a positive signal, if I understood the Council of State correctly, because some of the government parties have given the impression that you're deliberately starting to phase out the oil and gas industry. Then I won't go on with that debate. What's interesting to hear, however, is how the Council of State sees that one is going to expand the infrastructure further north. Will one continue to be positive in building pipelines such that one finally comes up to Finnmark, if it turns out that there are large gas fields also in the hopefully new Norwegian territories bordering Russia? Or does the Council of State realize that there will be other ways to get the gas to the markets from there?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1369	It is a fairly big question that the representative now addresses in his second question. It would be a very interesting situation if we did gas finds that made it interesting to put new plans, look at the possibilities of building the infrastructure further north. We see that what we found we did far north, on Snow White, was not close to being able to defend that type of infrastructure, and then LNG production was chosen. The reality is that with the transport distances from this area to existing infrastructure, the findings must be significant before the construction of pipes is more profitable than for example. developing LNG facilities. So it's not possible to give one answer to the question. That's an interesting question, but this will be completely dependent on the size of the findings we're doing in the future. We see that we've done some interesting findings, but we also see that some of the search drilling has given negative results.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1376	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We know that in order to develop fields off the coast of e.g. North Norway has a lot of attention on local value creation. In that case, landing is often something that a person makes up as a wish. At the same time one knows that if one now gets a little less gas production than one has had, one could in the long run have gas processing facilities that start to run a little idle. What are the intentions of the Councils of State to build new farms to legitimise new gas activities in the north versus to try as a nation to exploit the investments that they have already made? This is not a trick question, it is simply to get the Council of State's view on what he thinks about this versus the plans of the Russians to put gas pipelines in the north and get the gas through Russia, where Norway will not be able to participate and process this at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1385	At the end of the question, I realized that it was Russia and not Rogaland it was – I was a moment in doubt about it. I think this is a question with a lot of x-factors, and that with the new areas east of the Barents Sea it shows in a very good way. If this were to turn out to be very gas-rich areas, it would probably mean that Finnmark, maybe East Finland, is getting a completely different role in the relationship to gas and gas processing than what we've seen so far. In general, I believe that local ring effects are a prerequisite for oil and gas activities, and that we must be clear that they must also be achieved through what we do. So I believe that in what way this happens is something that needs to be clarified based on the size of the different findings and the composition of production in slightly larger areas, and what opportunities we have for land-based development.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1397	‘The revised national budget for 2009 cancelled the invitation to tender for the cleaning of the gas power plant at Kårstø by redispatching the funds. At the same time, this resulted in the suspension of the investment decision for an indefinite period. For Norway’s climate accounts, it is important to move on with clean-up on Kårstø. New cost estimates have recently arrived on the table. When will the gas-fired power plant tendering procedure be resumed at Kårstø?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1404	As the representative Hemdal points out, the Government presented in the revised 2009 national budget for the decision to stop the procurement process for the construction of a capture plant on Kårstø until a clearer picture of the operating pattern of the gas power plant is provided. There are market conditions that determine the operating time of the gas power plant. It has now been in operation for a longer period, and before it remained silent for a long period. This illustrates the uncertainty. At the same time, the Government wants to look at a possible integration solution between the gas power plant and the gas processing plant at Kårstø. On this basis, Gassco and Gassnova were assigned to carry out a screening study of an integration between that facility. Integration means that the gas power plant delivers electricity and heat to the gas processing plant, replacing existing gas-powered compressors and boilers. The assessment report on integration was submitted to the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment on 22 March this year. The study of Gassco and Gassnova concludes that integration is technically feasible and outlines five different integration scenarios. The report sets out preliminary, very rough cost estimates for the different scenarios. The report indicates that no commercial drivers have been identified for any of the scenarios and that integration requires the continuous operation of the gas power plant to act as a steam supplier to the gas processing plant. There has been a major and important investigation into CO2 management in Kårstø. Work has helped to generate important knowledge on different aspects of the establishment of full scale CO2 management facilities at Kårstø. Recently, the Ministry received an external quality assurance report on the decision-making basis for the Kårstø project, a so-called KS1 report. The State Financial Management Code requires an external quality assurance for State investment with an estimated investment cost of more than SEK half a billion. The aim of quality assurance is to obtain an independent analysis as a basis for State decisions. It is now important to have a sound decision-making basis in this case. It's a big deal. There are complex and demanding projects. That means you need a little bit of time to go through this work. The studies carried out will form an important part of this work and form a technical basis for further work on the Kårstø project. As announced in the revised national budget last year, the government will come back to the Storting when we have gone through this in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1425	I know that the Council of State received a script from Nature and Youth outside the Storting today. I hope that some of the things that were in the scripts of the engaged young people are used by the Council of State at some point. The slogans were about the cleaning time of Kårstø, the closing time of Mongstad. It is such that Kårstø was granted a concession on 6 October 2000. In 2005, we heard that Kårstø was to be cleaned by 2009 – we don't know that happened, the government has broken its own promise about it. In February 2009, Kårstø started out too fully and has brushed and walked since then, giving an emission of 3 pst. of Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore it is important that we now proceed with cleaning on Kårstø. The council says we need a little bit of time, because it's an important decision, and it's complex. But what is the timing of the Government? What defines the Council of State as ‘a little time’.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1432	I have no date for it; then I would have said it. I find that it is a comprehensive material that has been delivered, partly from Gassco and Gassnova and partly through this KS1 report. So the fact that time has to be spent on it in the future, and that the processes require their own, I don't think it's very surprising. But I don't have any more time instructions than what I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1437	This is not a good week for the climate in terms of cleaning up gas power plants when we hear the Council of State's response and know the government's history in the case of Kårstø, which should have been cleaned in 2009. We still don't know when it happens, or whether it happens, and the council also informed on 1 May that the government is postponing the cleaning of Mongstad. But it's complicated, none of us doubt it. It's important decisions, none of us doubt it either, but it's kind of necessary that we get a little bit further. As far as Mongstad is concerned, the Council of State has said that we have to look at all the plans, when the cleaning is to be postponed. Now, when you look at the whole thing, we know that at Mongstad, there's an emission permit on pretty much this power plant. Then my follow-up question will be: Will this be considered, now that the Government is making an overall review of changes to the terms after the May 1st message from the Council of State, Terje Riis-Johansen?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1444	Of course, we must now review all the agreements with regard to Mongstad. We are laying down a new progress plan, which means that one must also go through the agreements that have been, and those that were planned to arrive at. With regard to the emissions permit and the proposal – I had just said – to shut down the power plant, I think there are some practical challenges raised by removing an energy producer – not least with regard to the TCM plant, which, of course, requires its own in terms of energy supply. So I don't think it's exactly a question for simple answers -- I almost said -- that it's just closing it down, and then the problems are solved. We have made a run in terms of energy consumption from the power plant, and that requires it in terms of consumers who are going to make use of that energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1454	I have the following questions for the Minister of Research and Higher Education: ‘There is now a continuous debate on the organisation of the higher education sector. Everyone seems to have one goal: how to get together and become a university. More and more are calling for a fundamental debate on how the sector should be in the future, how the division of tasks should be and how the tasks should be financed. The chairperson of the Church, Education and Research Committee has also taken up a debate on this in Stortinget. When can we expect the Council of State to bring a case to the Grand Duchy on the structure and division of tasks for universities and colleges?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1463	Government policy on the development of the higher education sector is based on broad political agreement that our universities and colleges should be autonomous institutions with high degrees of freedom. As is well known, most agreed with the Star Island Committee's diagnosis of the need for better work sharing and more robust professional environments, but hardly any supported the proposal for a policy-driven structural reform in the university and higher education sectors. The reasons included: that the costs would be too high and that any changes had to be professionally anchored and based on voluntary activity. In the context of the treatment and follow-up of the Sterø Committee, the Government concluded that the accreditation system for institutional recognition — i.e. the rules on whether a place of study is a university, a university or a university — is firm. The places of learning must meet a set of quality requirements of the national body for quality in education, NOKUT, before government and accumulation determine any change in the category of institutions. Two years after the Star Island Committee gave its position, we see that the institutions themselves have addressed the challenges. In all parts of the country, cooperative formations are established based on the professional needs and benefits of the institutions and the professional community. I am impressed with the ability to convert and have great faith that this will mean strengthening Norwegian higher education and research. In several cases, the plans also include aggregation – not as an objective in itself, but as a lever for professional concentration and strengthening. That someone also has the goal of becoming a university, I see it as an expression of professional ambition. The fact that a university changes the status of becoming a university does not entail any change in the financial conditions and thus has no impact on the financing of the sector as a whole. Structural changes in the university and higher education sectors are taking on a lot of attention and the theme is given a lot of attention. It is positive that so many are engaged in the country's main knowledge institutions. The government has followed this up by stimulating more cooperation, better division of labour and greater professional concentration in the sector. This goes under the name SAK. The objective of SAK is more robust professional environments capable of carrying out high-quality research and education, and more profiled institutions. Changes in the institutional structure or in the designation of an institution are not an objective in itself. The Ministry of Knowledge is following this development and supporting the good processes. Among other things, we've just distributed the 50 million. kr that was set aside in the State budget for this year for such different SAK measures. These go to different types of processes, both processes that are likely to cause structural changes and processes that will not. In addition, for the second year, we provide own resources for cooperation and work sharing in teacher training. This year it is approx. Fifteen million. kr. These are distributed according to the regional meetings of teacher training institutions, which are now taking place during the spring. The SAK concept was launched in St.meld. No 30 for 2008-2009, Climate for Research, and has been mentioned in a number of documents for the Stortinget, including St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, Education Line, and in the Ministry of Knowledge budget for the budget of the year. I would also like to inform Stortinget in the Ministry of Knowledge's technical proposal for the 2011 budget about the further development in the field. In addition, the Storting recently had an interpellation debate on the same theme. I see on this background no need today for a separate case to the Stortinget on structure and division of tasks between universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1478	I thank you for the answer and am probably surprised that the Council of State rejects coming all the way to Stortinget with a case about this. So when we meet the environments that are connected to universities and colleges, we get feedback that they are calling for a clear direction in the current work. Yes, it is true that the SAK project is a desired process, but there are some clear directions that they can relate to. Universities are talking about the conditions. Today it is that one can be accredited, but there are no changed conditions. The higher education institutions demand a carrot to remain higher education institutions to the highest degree. There are also other challenges that lie here. As part of the predictability of the university and higher education sectors, they are calling for such a debate. Hasn't the Council of State got the wishes?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1485	Of course, the Council of State is in the middle of both the wishes and the debate. But it's important to stress that the direction determines them themselves. They are autonomous institutions. What is the task of the Council of State is to make sure that they improve qualitatively. Now, if I were to facilitate a debate on the structure of higher education, there might be even more people who would become insecure than those who might be waiting for some clearer guidelines today. I don't want to change the game rules. I want to have the rules of the game that Stortinget – all the games, also the questioner’s game – laid down in 2001 when this matter was decided. I think it would be quite strange if I were to facilitate a debate on this. It would make everyone think that we're going to change the game rules that everyone is now working on. I want to stimulate cooperation, to worksharing, to professional concentration. I want to stimulate better quality, and I also want to appeal to the institutions and say that they have a responsibility for how they will evolve to become ever better and to be able to work with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1494	There is no doubt that there was agreement on that matter initially. When the world then goes on, it's very normal that a person takes a follow-up if one sees that one needs to do it. It's at least right ready for that. As I refer to in the question, it is also central politicians from the government parties who say that it is now time for us to take such a debate. What the Council of State here says is that if, for example, All colleges now merge, get accredited and get the opportunity to become universities, don't do anything to make the higher education sector disappear and we sit with just universities. I think it's a development that we should definitely discuss in Stortinget. I know that many people in Stortinget have their opinion about it. It is a major challenge for the future funding of universities, which one should look at. I think it's a little strange that the Council of State still rejects it completely, but we just have to take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1503	The majority has had many opportunities to debate this and will have opportunities for the future, as I mentioned. I do not know what kind of agenda you have here, if you want to change these rules, if you want to make changes to what you were in on in 2001. These are long-term processes we operate with in this sector. I would strongly warn against signaling that we are now changing the rules of the game. But I would like the Right to be involved in ensuring both what is the core task of higher education, that is, professional education – regardless of what they call it, it is important – and to ensure that there are good and predictable conditions for both universities and colleges. I don't think there's any danger that the changes that are now taking place can threaten neither professional training nor research. As I have said, we have had this debate on several occasions and are going to have it in the future. I therefore look forward to good debates, including with the Right, on these important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1510	Then we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1516	This question, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1519	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Plus-School in Old Town/Fredrikstad represents a valuable training offer for small craftsmanship such as goldsmiths and shoemakers. The latter education is probably the only one in the Nordic region in its kind and vulnerable due to varying numbers of applicants. Education is also important as recruitment to orthopaedic establishments. Changes in the funding base threaten the existence of education. Will the State Council review the financing model for the smallest crafts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1528	I will give the following answers on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge: Subsidies for private secondary schools are granted above cap. Item 228 71 of the State budget. The subsidy shall be granted at one rate per year. students based on costs in similar public schools. Individual rates are calculated for each training programme. The Plus school, as asked, is a private secondary school offering the education programme design and crafts, and receives state subsidies per year. pupils at the rate of this training programme. As of 1 April 2010, the school had 52 students. I am uncertain as to what changes to the funding basis the representative of Aspaker is looking for. No changes have been made to the subsidy model for private secondary schools in the 2010 budget. The training programme rate for design and crafts has increased from 2009 to 2010, from DKK 118,700 in 2009 to DKK 124,600 in 2010. Private schools offering training in small crafts do not have a financing model of their own. The grant model for private secondary schools is structured with rates for each education programme included in the Knowledge Commitment. There are no plans to change the grant model at this point. I interpret the question from the representative, Aspaker, that she is concerned with the Ministry's work on small crafts in general. Old craftsmanship is part of our cultural heritage that it is important to take care of. Today there are a total of 31 subjects on the list of small and protective subjects. In these subjects a special grant is given to apprenticeships. It is a very important measure to contribute to the continuation of training in craft traditions. The Ministry of Knowledge is working closely with the social partners today to care for and develop small and protective subjects. As far as further work is concerned, the Education Directorate has been given a survey of the status of small crafts under the direction of Econ Pöyry. The report was published in March 2009 and the Education Directorate has been asked to assess it and to propose follow-up points. In view of this, the Ministry will consider how to follow-up work. Nordic cooperation on small and protective subjects will be an important element here. Among other things, the Nordic Council of Ministers has allocated funds to look at possible models of Nordic cooperation. Here, a Nordic School Cooperation Group and the Professional Committee Group will launch a project in autumn 2010 to look at opportunities for cooperation on training in selected small crafts in the Nordic region. The Ministry of Knowledge has set aside 1 million. kr to work on Nordic cooperation in the Education Directorate in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1547	Governments are right that the change has not occurred in the last year. The change actually occurred back in 2001, under Trond Giske when he was Minister of Education. So it turned out that the problems for these smallest subjects have built up, and some of the subjects are so small today that it is clear that financing the smallest subjects in the same way as financing the very largest subjects that have many students is – to use an expression – almost a bit raw in relation to the challenges of the smallest subjects. Funding today creates considerable uncertainty. It may also mean that students do not apply. You're inside a very bad circle. At the same time, we see that this shoemaker training delivers professionals to Sophie's memory, it delivers professionals to orthopedic workshops, which build special footwear for many people who need it. Does the Council of State see the urgency of doing something with regard to the financing of these subjects, so that they do not die out while waiting for other reports?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1556	Of course, I share the questioner's concern for the small craftsmanship, which I have explained in the answer. But I think it's a good idea to refer to a change in the funding system that actually happened in 2001 – it's starting to be a few years ago. It's been a development since it's about these schools having a predictable system. A grant is granted at a rate per year. student, which is calculated on a grant basis. This is based on KOSTRA, where municipalities and county councils report their costs to school. It is a predictable system, and in the department we have not received any enquiries either from this school or from others with similar expertise on the alleged problems raised by the questioner. Of course, I take note of the question asked by the questioner and will pass it on. However, apart from this enquiry in the questionnaire, we have not received any reports that there is a problem with the funding system for these schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1565	It is a problem that shoemaker training is now particularly at risk of closure. It goes without saying that in a 30-class financing system you have a significant income and resources to provide, while in a small subject, where you might take up less than ten students – which is the search base you have – you will have major challenges to get that operation to go around. I would like the Council of State to be more appropriate in addressing this issue. I guess that's not exactly true, as the Council of State here says, that this has not been taken up. It has been a recurring theme that the smallest subjects are struggling – the cow is starving while the grass is growing. Investigations are being made, but I – and Right – are very concerned that the child is going to be thrown out with the bath water, because it takes so long before you get what the government thinks is going to be a funding system to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1572	I would like to remind the asker that her party has actually been with the government for four of the years that have passed since 2001, when this system was introduced. If it was so urgent, it might not have been easy to do anything at that time. Here's the situation, as the questioner probably knows, that according to rules for private schools you have a challenge if there are fewer than 15 students. With three consecutive school years of less than 15 students, there is a problem with regard to the grant. I refer again to what I said in my answer on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, that we look at this in Nordic context. We are committed to preserving the old crafts and the old crafts traditions in the best possible way, and so far we have not received any concerns from this school or similar schools about that particular challenge. I take with me what the questioner has explained here, in the further work both on a Norwegian and on a Nordic basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1583	The size then goes to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1596	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1602	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church: ‘Is the Council of State willing to amend the Code of Conduct for Church Books, so that the Church can also make use of today’s technology and benefit from its efficiency?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1609	In Norway, church books have been kept since the 1600s. Until the 1980s, the church book had an important function as a public register. It was in the church book that information was found on, for example: births, marriages and deaths. Responsibility for recording this type of data has now been transferred to the public register or other bodies. Certificates issued from the church books no longer have so-called public credibility. In other words, the Church Book has been largely restricted to a register of church acts, and it is without civil law significance. The central register of members of the Norwegian Church, which was established in 1999, uses today’s technology. In 2009, a new ICT platform for the membership register was implemented. This register solution facilitates the electronic recording of data locally in each individual socket. The register provides an overview of membership and membership of the Norwegian Church through the registration of, inter alia, baptisms, registrations and withdrawals. In addition, the collected data are used as a basis for the census lists in the church elections. The register formed the basis for the church elections in autumn 2009 and the production of election cards. The new solution has helped to improve the quality of the Member Register. The solution also provides a basis for future efficiency gains for the local church, which can be realised by further developing the platform already in use. The aim must therefore be to complete today's paper-based church records and further develop the membership register towards an electronic church book. But before the paper-based system can be phased out, an electronic solution must actually be in place. The Church Council is now in a process of developing a module for the electronic reporting of church acts. It is necessary to consider in detail the extent of the documentation to be included in the church book in the future. I believe that one has to consider whether it would be appropriate to register all the information that is currently registered in the church book, in a future electronic base. As mentioned above, church records do not have the same meaning as before, and other public authorities have taken over the registration of, for example: marriage. I am concerned that the system must meet the necessary safety requirements and in a good way meet the practical challenges and needs that are local. The registration of this type of personal data creates some specific challenges, not least because there are very many users of the system at the local level. In addition, the Norwegian Church has established a common ICT strategy, addressing the needs to develop a more comprehensive and effective approach to both local record keeping and key needs and requirements. The work on the implementation of this ICT strategy has started – after what the Council of Churches informs us. One of the areas of action is to ensure good local solutions, so that church staff will have modern IT tools to support their work. In this context, the Norwegian Church will review the relevant local needs and the statistics and governance data needed for national planning. I believe it is important that the Church itself find good solutions here and does not develop ICT solutions to solve one problem at a time. So I'm behind the whole angle of incidence that the Church itself has on these challenges. The Church Act today provides for both church records and membership records. I am now working on a consultation note that proposes to adjust the provisions on church records, so that it does not prevent the registration of church acts in the future by electronic means.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1624	I am partly satisfied with the answer. But it is probably I who have asked a little too short a question, because now the minister actually mixes a central church register and a local church register. This is only about a local church register, which in no way depends on a central register. Today, in fact, many of the church offices are fully capable of pressing the button and obtaining personal information. It's the same paper quality as the church books and the same print form. Then my question is to the Council of State: I guess after this clarification, the minister immediately initiates that change, so that the various church offices can use that electronics.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1633	As I said in my reply, I am now working on a consultation note on the matter. It'll be clear in a very short time. If you're going to allow local solutions to be used regardless of what the Church centrally needs, I'm not sure. It is important to take into account the necessary personal data and the rules that apply to it, and we need to make sure that there are no records that do not comply with the data protection requirements. With regard to the central register of members in the Church, it is also difficult to keep two registers. So I support the Council of Churches in their efforts to have a common register, where information is recorded in one place – not both in a central register of members and in a locally kept church book. I think it's important that we have both parts in one register in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1640	I have to say that I am amazed that the minister gives the word ‘property’ a completely different content than what is used in church terminology. The fact that you need an investigation of this is completely unimaginable. So it's already in place in the church offices today. You can only press the button, tie this paper into the skin-bound perm – and place the paper inside. I don't understand that it should be necessary that it takes some time. In the past, the Minister of the Church and I have had dialogue, and I have been clearly informed that the Church is expected to operate in the most efficient way possible. Then you are involved in putting plugs in that system, which means that the Church is getting more expenditure – funds that could otherwise have been used for personal activities. So I must say, I'm amazed. But pending this investigation, is it so to understand that the Minister of the Church is willing to grant extra funds to the Church?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1649	As I said, we want to facilitate the electronic management of church books. Then I will respect the wishes of the Church Council when considering whether to have local solutions or joint solutions for the individual churches. The Church Council is responsible for this and must also be responsible for having a good enough data security, so that information does not go astray. In order to set up a central membership register, 20 million were allocated. kr. $13 million. kr went above the state budget, and we have increased the operating costs from 3.5 million. NOK 9.4 million. kr for good operation of the register. In addition, this year I have granted 1 million. To put in place a central strategy and to clarify the issues raised by the representative here, so that we can have good security and a good localization for these registers. But I want to wait for the answer given by the Church Council before I might give other leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1659	‘In connection with the coastal petroleum activity, the various landing options in the north are more updated. Will the Council of State consider it natural that the Coastal Works should play a leading role in a professional assessment of the alternatives involved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1666	The Coastal Agency is a professional advisor to the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, with, inter alia, Directorate of Fisheries and the Marine Research Institute. The department's professional councils will provide the basis for the department's professional evaluation with regard to the selection of a landing site. It is natural that the professional competence of the Coastal Plant will weigh heavily, and the answer to the question of the Coastal Plant will have a prominent role, therefore it will be yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1671	Thanks for the answer. As the Council of State describes it, the Coast has responsibility for preparedness for acute pollution. In the context of the debate on drilling, in order to define more precisely the resources that one has under the seabed outside the Lofoten and the West Pole, there will be a consequence that this area will be produced as extra vulnerable, and additional resources should be deployed to prevent this. In the 2010 state budget, North Norway is not satisfied with extraordinary efforts, despite the fact that one sees that significant quantities of oil already pass reasonably close to these areas in the form of ships carrying oil. These ships are described as having a potentially very high risk of being able to land or in other ways to get into the sea, which means that a person is at risk of having large emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1678	Now I have a feeling that maybe we're talking about two different things. The question was, of course, related to a possible landing site and the role of the Coastal Plant in it. The answer to that question is yes. As far as the Coastal Authority’s economy is concerned, as far as a completely different issue is concerned, but as I can still comment, the activity of the Coastal Agency is always risk-based. A great deal of action has been taken to reduce the risk. The most important thing in the north – and I guess the representative is familiar with this – is the long-sea routes that we have approved, as one example which hopefully reduces both the risk and therefore the need for activity and then the costs in the last instance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1685	The President will only recall that supplementary questions should be an addition to the main issue and not a new one. But, of course, the Council of State is free to answer, as she did now. Does Grimstad want additional questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1688	Yes, thank you, I do. It's on standby that the Coast Guard has. We now saw that during the 'Full City' accident, the Coast Guard was strongly criticized for not intervening with local emergency plans, and using local knowledge and knowledge could have a more proactive role when it comes to implementing the necessary measures to minimise the damage. So in the follow-up to this, the question is whether, according to the Council of State, the Coastal Agency should be more closely involved in local plans and plans to exploit local resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1695	Once again, I would like to remind you that the question was related to a possible landing site of oil. In fact, the landing of oil in full monn was full City, but the landing site was not exactly planned. On the question, I can say that the local knowledge and cooperation between local actors, the Coastal Agency and the central authorities, are of course crucial to achieving good processes and good solutions. This is not least in the context of ‘Full City’ – getting an interaction that is important, and having good knowledge in advance of whether there are issues related to the landing site or general oil protection, of course, makes sense. There's something I'm emphasising that we should have – local knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1705	‘According to the 2010 State budget, 115 children and young people had decisions on home accommodation and were waiting for foster homes per year. 31 January 2009. A further 619 were notified as relevant for place in foster homes. In addition, there are fears that there are large numbers of darkness in the area. Non-profits, including the Church's Social Service and the Salvation Army, want to recruit foster homes, but get signals from the directorate that this is not desirable. Does the Council of State want the efforts of non-profit actors in foster home recruitment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1712	It is important that we have enough foster homes, and that foster homes receive follow-up, so that they can make good offers. It is serious that more children and young people lack foster homes. I share the representative's concern about this. Children to be placed in foster homes are exposed and vulnerable, with a special need for care and safety. It is Bufetat who is responsible for recruiting and distributing foster homes, while child protection services in municipalities are responsible for approving foster homes. There is a systematic and targeted job of recruiting enough foster homes. In particular, the following immediate measures are in place to reduce waiting time: First, foster home services now go through all pre-established foster families to see if they can accept children and young people other than they originally intended. Secondly, Bufetat will strengthen the focus on what is effective recruitment measures, and in 2010 it will increase efforts to recruit foster homes in larger agglomerations and at the homes of young people, which is what we especially lack. Thirdly, careful consideration shall be given to the presence of caregivers in the family and close networks of the child. Buffetat will assist municipalities in need of assistance with the assessment, including: through the use of family advice, to find good caregivers in the child’s community. Furthermore, foster home services will contact former foster homes to encourage them to make a new effort for children in their community. These are families who have already received training, who already have experience and who can therefore get into this at relatively short notice. So is it that the waiting time for adoption from abroad is increasing, and the number of children adopted from abroad is decreasing. Being a foster home can be an alternative for a part of those who want to care for children. Therefore, Bufdir will communicate the possibility of becoming a foster parent to all those seeking adoption. It is the government's policy to use public services as much as possible. This also applies in the area of child protection. It is also government policy to give priority to non-profit actors, insofar as we need to use private services. This applies to all services, including foster homes. The individual region of Buffetat itself has to make an assessment of whether they need to buy foster homes from private individuals. Although the recruitment of foster homes is initially a public task of Bufetat, there is nothing in the way of cooperating with private actors in the recruitment of foster homes. I am therefore positive that NPISHs contribute to the recruitment of foster homes, and will clearly signal this to the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate. However, Bufetate will continue to have overall responsibility for ensuring that a sufficient number of foster homes are available within each region to meet the different location needs. With regard to the provision of foster homes to individual children, the responsibility for this is the national regional child protection authority. It follows from the Children’s Protection Act that ‘it is prohibited for individuals to engage in intermediary activities for the placement of children without adoption for the purpose of their eyes’. This means that private actors cannot place children in foster homes, and the provision is an expression that such activities are considered a public task. But the last thing I think is uncontroversial, and the questioner also agrees. The short answer to the representative's question is therefore yes, and I want to contact the directorate to clarify that signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1735	First, I would like to comment on the moment when the Council of State states that the Government wants primarily to use public services. Then I would also like to remind you that child protection was established in Norway even before it became a state invention, precisely through the involvement of organisations. Then I am glad that the Council of State now opens up the use of the capacities and resources of these organisations in this area. It's unsustainable that kids are in line for foster homes if we can give them the opportunity to get it. My next question to the Council of State will then be: does the Council of State see that the networks of voluntary organizations, such as the Salvation Army, the Church's Social Service and others of their supporters around the country, can provide a larger recruitment basis that can allow us to have more foster homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1744	I'm a little surprised that the representative is amazed at my signal on priorities, for me, all parties, including the Christian People's Party, have stressed that we need to exploit the public capacity we have in child protection, which we're not always good enough for. Nor do I think there is any disagreement in the Stortinget that it is important that a strong proportion of our child protection services are carried out by the public. So it will always be like this, I think, in child protection that there is also a need for private and then preferably ideal actors. The recruitment of foster homes is a good example in an area where we want to make good use of the help, skills and networks that NPISHs have. I would like to welcome that effort in the very important job we have in recruiting more foster parents. I look forward to the contributions that the Salvation Army and others can make to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1751	My point was just to stress that the volunteer organisations have always had a place in child protection, and therefore should have it as well. It was nothing but that. I am pleased that the Council of State gives a clear signal that he is open for the voluntary organizations to recruit foster homes, because many organisations in different regions have experienced, not least in the last year, negative feedback from Buffetat on that very thing, and it is paradoxical when children are in line for foster homes. I would therefore challenge the Council of State to engage in dialogue with voluntary organisations and ask whether he is open to a dialogue on how they can make the most of their potential to recruit more foster homes over time. I would also like to challenge the Council of State from what time the new signals here will be applicable to Bufetat's practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1760	As I said, I would like to make quick contact with the directorate to clarify that signal. I think some of the issues in which non-governmental organisations feel that there has not been a wish for them to contribute to foster homes are related to foster home placements, which are once again linked to institutions of which we should in some cases have less of them. But with regard to normal foster home placements, I believe that we need the efforts of volunteers, just as we do and will continue to have it in the field of institutional child protection, even though on a scale and scale it will be somewhat less in the future than it has traditionally been. I'm open to dialogue with the volunteer organizations about how they can contribute, and I'm also going to focus on the directorate that I expect the same from the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1769	That being the case, it is no. 1 completed on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-05-05.ana.ud2638e1782	There is no record. Is anyone asking for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
