ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e36	The representatives Hallgeir H. Langeland and Lars Myraune, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e69	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and members of the Government 15 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines in response to contributions by the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines in response to contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e80	In many of our European neighbours, the threat to the future is increasing. Country by country cuts deep into government spending to deal with the debt crisis. Welfare and social security services are being reduced. Unemployment is growing. People go out in the streets protesting that it is those who have to bear the burdens of the aftershock of the financial crisis. Norway is the distinguishing country with high profits, low unemployment and economic opportunities to renew and strengthen the welfare community. There are in the economic crisis the threats to the stability of our part of the world now lying. If our neighbouring countries do not succeed in getting the economy back on its feet, the dangers of growing protectionism, weakening international cooperation, and nationalistic forces can gain further political footholds. The close cooperation developed in Europe on the basis of economic integration is the main tool for countries to overcome the economic crisis. It's only through cooperation that you can succeed. The alternative would have been everyone's attempt to turn the problems over to the neighbor. As integrated as the country's economy has become, it would soon be a boomerang that struck back. Although Norway is in a completely different situation, we are not protected from the effects of what is happening in the countries around us. Our economy is too strongly integrated into our neighbours for that. This whole situation underlines a key element of which there is broad consensus in Norwegian foreign policy, namely the importance of binding international cooperation and an international legal order. The attitude of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence shows above all the broad consensus on the broad lines of our foreign and defence policy. The main distinctions emerge in the aid policy, between the government and the centre on one side and the right parties on the other. The northern regions are the main strategic focus of the government. It is supported by a sharp increase in appropriations next year, as the total effort will amount to 1.2 billion. kr. Over the course of 20 years, northern areas have been transformed from an East-West frictional area to a cooperation area for sustainable resource management in the Barents Sea, research and climate monitoring in the Arctic, and industrial development on both sides of the Norwegian-Russian border. The agreement on the Barents Sea border line and the cooperation agreement in this area has removed our only outstanding issue with Russia. The agreement on the border residence certificate has strengthened opportunities for both economic cooperation and cross-border people-to-people cooperation. This development is a tangible example of how positive developments have been in our part of the world, how increased economic cooperation and integration reduce the basis for conflicts. The UN with its many sub-organisations is at the heart of the global cooperation structure. With the exception of the Progress Party, there is a broad welcome about our strong commitment to the United Nations system, political and economic. This commitment includes the desire and need for reforms that can make the UN more powerful and focused. Two Norwegian Prime Ministers have been central to this work. The party of progress actually separates layers with the other parties. In the setting, the party is strongly critical to the UN system, and they cut almost 30 pst. in the appropriations of the United Nations Organisation in its alternative budget. I think it's necessary to have what Lenin called a revolutionary patience in the reform work of the United Nations. It is in the nature of international bodies that the view of what is effective and what is targeted is quite different from that of more than 190 Member States. In addition, the UN is also a political system, and we know from this house that there can often be some contradiction between what is politically appropriate and what is efficiency in the proceedings. Another example is Nordic cooperation. Also, in cooperation between five similar countries, we do not avoid red tape and inertia that weaken efficiency and substance. To this end, a Joint Committee of Governments is asked to initiate a review of the organisation of the Nordic Council of Ministers with a view to simplifying, streamlining and focusing work. We are in the midst of a comprehensive change of defence – from an invasion defence to an intervention defence, from a defence we would rather avoid using, to a defence we can use as a security policy instrument, as we do, among other things, in Afghanistan. There is, in fact, broad, cross-political agreement on this transition and on the main structures of our new defence. And then we see that the right will spend $600 million. kr more next year, while the Progress Party, as usual, has a billion more to use than the Right Panther. If the original proposal for a defence structure had been adopted by the Progress Party, the extra money would hardly have been used for the operation. The danger that conflicts in our vicinity will require military action has never been less in our history than it is now. Changing our defenses for a time and in an atmosphere of peace and deportability in the neighborhood is a situation we shall rejoice over. It allows for the use of the time necessary to carry out such a comprehensive and demanding conversion. Switching from old to new weapon systems, whether at sea, to land or in the air, is not like switching cars. The shifts will provide a period during which power production enters a small wave valley. We tolerate that when confrontation is replaced by cooperation in our part of the world. That time we can take when, after the transition has been completed, we have achieved a powerful and flexible defence that makes us well prepared to face the new security threats and to contribute both to international peace-building and peace-keeping operations. Our commitment to Afghanistan continues at the same level next year as this year. But it will change with greater emphasis on training and mentoring Afghan security forces. President Karzai recently criticized parts of the American operations in the country in an interview with the Washington Post and stressed that over 100,000 foreign soldiers in the country could not be in the long run. I interpret this to the point that the President sees the need for Afghanistan to be able, even in the next one to three years, to ensure the security of the country, so that the foreign military part of the effort can be stepped down and phased out. We're going to end our military engagement in a clean and responsible way. We need to be prepared to continue civil assistance in order to support and reinforce the positive results achieved in Afghanistan throughout these years. The area where we see the strongest political divides in today's position is in aid and development policy. At a time when many countries are under pressure of large budget deficits and high debt, it is important that Norway maintains its high level of assistance — more than 1pst. of GNI. It's disappointing that the Right can't afford it. This shows that there is a greater need for the government budget to give priority to large-scale tax relief. It is gratifying that the Christian People's Party has chosen our side in this position, and that we have jointly reached an agreement on this part of the budgetary position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. The progress piece stands in a completely different class and cuts 8 billion. kr on the aid budget – 30 pst. of the budget. In the setting, the party says that aid policy needs to be ‘focused more on quality than on symbolic quantitative indicators’, and refers to the objective of 1 pst. GNI shall be used for assistance. This quantitative indicator has caused the aid budget to grow from around 11 billion. DKK to 27 billion I'm going to spend ten years in here. 16 B.C.E. kr is no longer a symbol policy. It creates positive results out there among some of the poorest we can find among the most people in this world. The alarming budget of the Progress Party in this area is not really cut to 8 billion. kr, but the lot is proposed for 19 br. kr. The party notes that ‘these members are aware of and support the conclusions of studies that state that assistance has not contributed to economic growth in developing countries in general’. Why in the world would the party spend 19 billion? kr on something they don't believe helps? The party believes that the only thing that really helps is trade and capitalism, and that aid is essentially throwing money out of the window. Since the members of the Committee after the nomination are eagerly readers of investigations, research reports and books on the subject, it is a pity that they have translated an article by Anna von Sperling from November 3rd this year. She writes about the UN Human Development Report, which shows that assistance is beneficial. Several of the countries that are among the 10 best, among them Nepal, have assistance as an essential part of their economic base. Assistance is beneficial. Assistance provides development. Apart from the fact that the Progress Party is fully sidelined in aid and development policy, there is a broad consensus on foreign, security and defence policy. It's a strength for our country. It gives greater weight to the work that must always be at the heart of our foreign policy – caring for our own interests. We will make important contributions to addressing our major common challenges, such as climate change, energy security, poverty and terrorist threats. Had the Progress Party had its mark on Norwegian policy in this area, our opportunities to make a difference would have been much less. That would also be our international reputation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e133	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e136	The representative Svein Roald Hansen did not mention the veterans in a word. Veterans from foreign missions have expressed dissatisfaction with the current compensation scheme, including: The veterans point out that there is a distinction between physical and mental damage in respect of claims and rights. Furthermore, there is different treatment for the persons concerned after they have served. The Workers' Party representative Sverre Myrli says on his profile on the Workers' Party's website, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «However, not everyone believes that the arrangements are good enough. We should take that seriously. We should therefore go through the existing compensation and compensation mechanisms to look at any unfairness in them. That's what our veterans deserve." The Progress Party has proposed to amend the rules according to the contributions of the veterans and has therefore wanted to strengthen this budget. My question to the representative Hansen is: Why has this not been followed up by the government when there are clearly representatives involved in this, also in the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e148	It is absolutely right that the work with the veterans has been neglected for many, many years. It's done a lot with the last year, and there's going to be a follow-up to spring. We have put in place a compensation scheme. It has met with criticism, and as the representative Sverre Myrli has said, we are willing to look at it and go through it. I think it might be an advantage that it gets to work for a little while, so you see how it turns out. It has not been given that, among other things: another scheme proposed — there is also some disagreement among the veterinary organisations on how to set up the scheme — is better suited to all. So this is something we want to look at and evaluate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e155	It actually swings a little over the Workers' Party when you start the budget day with an old Lenin quotation. It brings some - for some maybe - extra heat to the hall, and it can probably be needed in what Nils Arne Egg defines as the «back room». But the transition to the financial crisis was also interesting. I have registered that the Labour Party and the government have one solution among several. One is to introduce a so-called Tobin tax, i.e. an international tax on foreign exchange trade, with reference to limiting the negative effects of globalisation. What kind of negative effects have we had in Norway as a result of globalisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e162	I also think the Right with the advantage could study Lenin. I'm not sure if the representative Kristiansen knows where this term «revolutionary patience» comes from. So from an impatience after the revolution, things were going to happen very quickly. In some contexts, you might also be able to learn from it, that sometimes you have to take some time to implement it, for example. demanding and extensive conversions such as what we are in the middle of now in Defense, without expecting everything to be in place the day after we started. With regard to the effects of globalisation in Norway, I think that, in fact almost as usual, we are on the green side. We've had great benefits. But there are backsides and disadvantages of globalisation. There's pressure on working conditions and wages, and there's pressure on the environment if we don't get common driving rules. And so the proposal for a Tobin tax is not something that's projected on what Kristiansen calls the "back room". There is, in fact, a fairly broad international debate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e169	The representative of Svein Roald Hansen is almost intriguing about the aid policy of the Progress Party and our proposal to spend close to 19 billion. kr in aid. Of course, he defends the government's arrangement, and that's okay. But does the representative, Mr Hansen, really think that better development is synonymous with a large development and aid budget? Is there no limit to how good development you can get just putting enough money into the pot?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e174	I have not listened to the aid policy of the Progress Party. I take the party's comments seriously when they don't have any faith that it works. And then the question of assistance anyway is going to be good if you just put money on. No, of course it's not like that. The quality, and how the money is used is important. And it's not just assistance that's useful. It is very important that countries are also integrated into world trade, that they have opportunities for economic development, that they have access to energy so that they can develop jobs and their own businesses. It has to be an instrument to help, but it has to be in a broad area, because we know from developments in our own country that everyone is given the opportunity to participate, that education, that women are involved, and that good health is part of the basis for development. It's not enough roads and trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e179	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e183	The Progress Party believes it is important to challenge Norwegian foreign, defence and security policies whether we are able to take care of the most important first – if we have met the fundamental challenges of the nation. We are now in the middle of a turbulent political situation with China. It's hopefully temporary. We record that old news is presented as new in the Evening Post, that we are alone in important Svalbard issues. We are experiencing a European financial crisis that could mean a lot to our export industry. We are about to leave behind a year when we have experienced with great sorrow that Norwegian soldiers have lost their lives in the fight against terrorism in Afghanistan. This is one of the permanent, or temporary, hindrances that Norway has to deal with. It is important to be prepared and secure in relation to old, adopted truths and new challenges. Long-termity and predictability are key elements of an active foreign and security policy. These include: on a sovereignty policy that does not raise any doubts as to what are Norwegian positions. It shall be maintained on land, at sea and in the air and in all relevant international arenas. The role of defence in active sovereignty is important. In recent years, most recently with the part-line agreement with Russia, Norway has had large, new seas. It is therefore important that we be able to be present in all of our sea domain. In view of the size of Norwegian sea areas, it is not natural to compare defence expenditure in Norway with many other European countries that have quite different and more limited geographical areas to monitor. Several aspects of the economic situation of the defence and recent years' reorganisation concern us, but one of the more strategic challenges in our domestic defence is the Marine's ability to operate in our neighbourhoods or elsewhere, such as in the Gulf of Aden, where Norwegian interests need to be safeguarded. I would like to point out some key questions: Is our base structure in the Maritime Defense ideal for the Northern Challenges? Are we able to secure enough sailing days for our fleet? Do we have enough crew at any time to mann the fleet? We believe that the answer in whole or in part is no to these questions. This weakens Norway, and we believe it would be right to re-prioritize the state budget in order to carry out this basic task. Unfortunately, the situation for the other defence sectors is not much better. The part-line agreement with Russia in the Barents Sea and the Arctic Sea is good news. The agreement itself is important. It also shows other Arctic partners and other countries how border disputes at sea can be resolved. Getting this case cleared out of the way creates a good basis for further cooperation with Russia. In this context, I would like to point out three important areas for deepening cooperation, as well as all that is being done today. The first is strengthened business cooperation. Here the business itself has a primary responsibility, but active authority involvement will help in the meeting with a Russia that is different from our other neighbouring countries. Better infrastructure east-west is also an area where we only see the beginning of something that can be really exciting and where new markets can be opened up and old markets brought closer. The last thing I want to mention is education. There's a good deal going on, not least in the case of Russian students at Norwegian universities, but there's less traffic the other way. It should be a goal for several Norwegian students to take one or more summers in Russia, while gradually offering Russian languages at several schools in Norway. In meetings with young people, I'm just pointing to Russia as a country to notice, and Russian language as a language to bet on. Language understanding and more exchange at all levels will promote an even better neighbourhood and work positively in a wide range of areas for which it is natural to cooperate. As regards Arctic issues, it is important that a body such as the Arctic Council be developed to become the central intergovernmental meeting place for Arctic policy. A few weeks ago, the leader of No to the EU went out and demanded that Norway stop the EU from becoming a permanent observer in the Arctic Council. The EU had nothing to do there, was the argument. I am not an EU member, but this way of dealing with the Arctic is not right. It cannot be that we push the EU and other non-Arctic countries that may have interests in the region away from the meeting table. It must be in our interest that the Arctic Council defends its right as the main arena and that we engage in dialogue with the European Union there. The option could be for the EU, and perhaps China, to move the talks on, for example. shipping in the Arctic to other places — places where Norway is not present. It'll be an unfortunate development. It is important that Norwegian trade interests are actively pursued. Unfortunately, the Doha Round in the WTO looks dark. This means that we have to take care of our interests in other ways, through e.g.: free trade agreements. We are pleased that there now appears to be a faster pace in the implementation of new agreements. At the same time, we would like to demand that negotiated agreements not be sidelined and that the agreement with, for example, Colombia is presented to the Size of ratification. It is in the Norwegian interest to ensure that several countries participate as active participants in global trade, and that people around the world are promised out of poverty. Norway has wanted to assume a great deal of responsibility, and it should be commended. It is not lacking in ideals. But as we've pointed out many times in the past, the political majority is blocking medicine. Instead of seeing if it's the wrong medicine, you keep increasing the dose. We believe that the recipient countries need to be de-medicated, stripped for the client label and take a real partnership status, and not just in the name. Criticism of existing development policies is by no means the most difficult exercise, but we are not content with merely criticising. We are promoting proposals here and in the financial position that really show the will for a political commitment to development. The measures we are proposing relate primarily to tolls, investments and aid for trade facilitation, we feel that there is a great deal of consensus on this, but we do not want to pursue these solutions politically. You stay on traditional tracks, and then I'm afraid that the solutions are also going to be the same traditional ones. When we point to the need to change Norwegian trade policy towards developing countries, we will refer to studies that show that Norway is coming out very badly, and that we are at the bottom of the list of comparable countries in meeting developing countries’ needs for better access to our markets. We have had extensive comments in connection with our amendments to aid for many years, and in all respects these comments have been ignored and have been allowed to stand alone. So this year there's been a nice change, we want to welcome that, where the government parties, especially in the case of rainforest, meet us. We're trying to document our statements with multiple sources and preferably research-based information. In this case, we have also made field visits ourselves. We will not claim that we have absolutely all the answers. This is too complicated for someone to have all the answers. But when the government parties in their response to our comments only manage to come up with a news magazine as a source because they are right and we are wrong, then I am not necessarily very impressed. I record that you feel very politically safe. I hope that, however, our views are taken into account, not least in relation to the experience that has generally been gained with Norwegian development assistance over the last 60 years. This is the argument that Norway, with the policy of the Progress Party, will lose its reputation and will not be able to recognise it. We are proposing an aid budget of nearly 19 billion. D combined with proposals for large-scale investment in the poorest countries, as well as tolls and other proposals. It would have been interesting to hear whether the red-greens have evidence to claim that countries with a similar share of aid, as we propose, and freer trade policies, as we propose, harm themselves and their reputation – not to mention the impact on the outside world. But if we manage to change development policy, so that it doesn't come to recognize, and we thus achieve real development, we are satisfied with it. We have to live with it. But that the red-green looked until the degrees defend it existing, and the result of it existing, is somewhat surprising and disappointing in view of the results that you have seen collectively to refer to. I would therefore like to address all the proposals that the Progress Party is behind in the vote, either alone or with other parties, plus today's distributed proposals for a living conditions study among veterans.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e213	Then the representative Morten Höglund mentioned the proposals he referred to. It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e218	The representative, Höglund, said that it was also important for Norway that people be lifted out of poverty. That's good. But he thinks it's using the wrong medicine -- I think he said the patient had to be "de-medication". In the setting, the Progress Party says that they: «knows and supports the conclusions of studies which state that assistance has not contributed to economic growth in developing countries in general». In addition, they consider that: ‘aid in several cases has contributed to weakening the social contract between politicians and residents of the country of destination, to increase corruption, to keeping authoritarian and totalitarian state leaders in power and even to prolonging war and conflict’. That is quite a criticism of the aid. But the party still uses 19 billion. kr, and they essentially use them through the same channels, they just reduce. What is the Progress Party wanting to spend its funds on, really?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e233	The great promise and the alternative policy lie among other things. in the financial position and in our proposal – which we have repeated over several years now – to make more investment in the private sector in these countries, concrete tolerations. We have concrete proposals relating to trade facilitation. It's a different policy than the one that's been run. If you read our comments together, you will see that our attitude toward assistance is nuanced and that we thank you for what we believe is not working well enough. Then there are areas in which it is important to bet, not least in health. That's not all that is done in e.g. The United Nations system, which we believe to be reprehensible, is absolutely not, but we believe there is a need to tighten it up. We believe that the patient is being over-medicated, and we support the statements related to the effect of assistance to which the representative Svein Roald Hansen refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e240	International climate policy is becoming an increasingly important part of foreign policy, and if, in the future, the Progress Party is going to be in government, they will become part of a constellation to deal with that theme internationally. I would like to ask the representative of Høglund a very simple question in connection with it: Does the representative of Höglund mean that there are man-made climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e247	The representative of Solhell knows very well that this is a question that I am not dealing with. But he points out quite correctly that we will deal with those questions in a good and credible way if we get into government, and take care of Norway's position in relation to it. I'm not a scientist in this area. I listen to the advice I get from different teams, and I'm not in such a position that I'm pressured to deal with this question on behalf of the party. I note with great interest that here is the shared views, and I as a strong politician should not necessarily oversee the research councils that we get in this way. I have a great deal of doubt about that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e254	I have respect for representatives who have some doubts. But that's something you really believe in -- you have an uncritical belief in free trade. I also respect that there are different assessments around it. It also permeates the setting and is very clear that free trade is the answer to most things that are bad and difficult here in the world. What I was surprised about, and as the Labour Party representative was also in, was that you have nevertheless chosen to continue the aid budget, or you wish to grant 19 billion. kr for development. So I want the representative to get to the point: how are they going to be 19 billion? be used effectively? I also want to explain why Afghanistan is being promised, that it should be a very effective opponent of assistance through the known channels, while other countries we are providing assistance to are not.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e261	The representative points to a major challenge, not just for the Progress Party, but I believe for Norway and all the countries involved in Afghanistan, and it is to ensure that the assistance there is effective. If I could say that I was very sure that all the money allocated to Afghanistan is just as well spent, I would have been very happy – if I could go from here today and have that security with me. I'm not so sure. We can't be 100 pst. safe from the 19th to the 19th. kr we suggest, just as little as I think the government can necessarily be safe from the 27 billion. kr they propose. This is a little bit of a trial and error. But that doesn't mean we're trying to bring down the problems of corruption, bring down the problems of abuse, bring down the problems of organisations where you don't deliver good enough results, and there we choose to go down and cut down actively. We see that the government goes the other way year after year and raises the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e268	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e271	We have a turbulent year behind us internationally, both of which the previous speakers have been talking about, where we have around us restrictions, financial crises and a significant increase in uncertainty in quite a few nations where stability has been the hallmark. It goes again as a red thread in the budget setting that Asia's importance is increasing. This is also illustrated by the fact that Asia is now a major priority when it comes to its presence in Norway through our foreign stations. It's quite natural and not controversial. It's the largest growing and most significant economy we have around us. At the same time, I am very pleased that the completely natural issues of human rights, common civil rights, come up as a topic of Asian development. We'll get this in a week when Liu Xiaobo receives the Nobel Peace Prize. We've seen that in Burma, former Nobel Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi is released. But at the same time we see that on the Korean peninsula, North Korea has found it opportunistic to attack the Yeonpyeong Island. So this is a new venue for existing conflicts. It also means that, in our foreign policy commitment, we must take action to contribute to the greater of all nations, China, taking a greater political action and greater political responsibility, which it may also seem to be trends to now. Although the conditions of power, the conditions of strength, the economic changes, it's very important at a time like this that we don't completely forget where we are, who are our big, heavy neighbours, which we have 70-80 pst. of our exports to and imports from, and where we have our strongest cultural relations. That means from the right we have to stress the importance of ringing the familiar, good and secure alliances that have been the basis for our formidable growth and development. An economically stronger Asia is very, very positive, but it can never be replaced for Europe. Then we are at a time that is also marked by significant and broad consensus in the Storting on our foreign policy. There is reason to stress the interesting situation in which Russia is developing in a positive direction, closer to us. Norway, as a neighbouring country, is becoming more and more in front of developing the alliance and Europe’s neighbourhood policy with Russia. We have seen that Russia has been drawn closer to the NATO Alliance in terms of security policy. We have put in place a part-line agreement with Russia, to which the Stortinget is given ample opportunity to come back to. We've seen that Russia's acceptance and participation in the rocket shield discussion has taken some quantum leaps in the security field in the last year. Our and Europe's proximity to Russia is, of course, about energy, but it is also about security policy. Just a brief visit to Iran, which is also part of this backstopper, and where we once again see the threats facing the world by the Iranian authorities. We see how human rights are handled. The other day, we saw the hanging of Shahla Jahed. We keep looking away that what someone thinks Ahmadinejad believes in when it comes to the use of words, at all, is not recorded. That's why it's my message that soon these cancers probably have to learn more from action. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, when he makes his statement, to comment on how long it is appropriate for us to have a foreign station in place in Iran. Then, of course, the security policy backcloth is known. The two previous speakers have been duly involved in this. Our Afghanistan exposure is what is at the heart of today's challenge, and it also challenges NATO's new adopted strategic concept, which certainly also presents significant challenges. That's what we also have to focus on at home. We must have Norwegian boys and girls, soldiers, in place in Afghanistan who are optimally trained and optimally equipped at all times to ensure the sharpest and sharpest job of all who Norwegian women and men are put to. Perhaps it is on such a day that today is right to remember those who have given their optimal contribution to the nation through their lost lives, and also those who sit at home and are related to those who risk their own lives and health in order to care for Norwegian interests. The involvement in Afghanistan has broad political support at home. There may be reason to recall that not everyone in place in Afghanistan feels the same support. There have been political tendencies that one has been a little too quick at the lab in the Norwegian media debate to give characteristics that might have been seen from someone's point of view in retrospect that this should have been kept away. The debate on the Norwegian defence is marked by an almost impenetrable budget proposal, which is difficult to understand, read through and derive from the effects and effects, which is left for the use of around 35 billion. kr on capacity and strength. This is hard to get through. But at the same time, the proposition paints a rather rose-red picture of, in and around the situation in the Norwegian defence that, in my opinion, very many times does not match the picture we get in our direct contact with Norwegian soldiers, who are training, are present and, to a greater extent, should practice more at home. The lack of ammunition and lack of practice is the red thread that goes back, and that Right has been concerned that we should have done something about, because we know what kind of challenges these guys and girls are facing. We are in a situation where we soon have the frigate fleet in place. We know that we only have three and a half crew divided into five frigates. Three frigates shall have only 255 sailing days, well below the recommended schedule. We have pilots in the Norwegian Air Force who don't get enough practice or flight. We have a HV power that has been sufficiently debated lately, and that is far from being trained enough, as the situation is. We see that large parts of the Home Guard team have not been trained for many years. The reinforcement and follow-up strengths are so rarely trained that according to the HV-02 chief, they have a response time of up to 30 days, because they must be trained from the ground up. The National Audit Office has made known reports that are well-placed in the Ministry of Defence, and on which I am quite certain have been read. We are also in a situation where the level of aid has become a red thread so far in the debate. Right will have an effective development policy with poverty reduction as its primary objective. In order to maximise development, assistance cannot be the only instrument. On the contrary, consistency between different policy areas and different ministries is very important in order to achieve the best possible fight against poverty. In particular, we will point to increased trade as one of the means of lifting countries out of poverty. The main principles of the Right Aid Policy are thematic and geographical concentration in order to increase efficiency, control and security of performance. Also in this area, the National Auditor has repeatedly said his words. The answer from political leadership is that yes, who is better than us? We are the best in the world, yes, the best in the world in this area as well. But I think it's political when we spend 27 billion. In this policy area, one of the largest expenditure items of the State budget, must be a minimum requirement that we be able to read from the budget what we actually get out of this money, and that we take seriously the unison desire for greater transparency in and around Norwegian aid policy. We're in place for more than 110 nations. We have over 4,000 projects in turn. Then there is no response from political leadership to the fact that, in fact, we are the best in the world, you settle for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e301	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e305	It is once again gratifying to state that the Right Party and the Labour Party agree on the major lines of foreign, defence and security policy. There's not much that separates in today's settings as to the defence. The right will increase the government's budget proposal by more than 1 pst. I have spent the last few days going back to 2008 and looking at Stortingen's treatment of the defence's long-term plan. The disagreement was mostly about the structure and the size of the defence structure. The right would have a larger structure in the treatment of the long-term plan, with more bases and more locations around the country of Defense. The right was, among other things, against bringing together the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters in Bodø and a number of other important structural interventions that were then carried out. The right-hand structure had been significantly more expensive to operate than the current structure. My question is: if we had had the Right Structure, would the Right Additions in today's budget have been sufficient to operate that structure? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e314	The President will remind you that speaking time in a row is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e317	Let me stress that it also delights Right to see how great the Joint Operational Headquarters works at Reitan in Bodø. It even gave His Majesty the King strong expression after his visit. The defense on the operating side in 2011 would have been $2.5 billion. if the Right Budget had been followed. It's interesting to see that next year's budget has today's government thanks to strong oil revenues more than 60 billion. kr more at disposal. So it's just the defense chapter that's not bad for growth. The budget is increased by two transport budgets. Culture gets almost 1 billion. kr in growth. Defense doesn't grow. It protests Right-to-Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e324	Actually, I want to re-examine the theme of international climate policy. In a row of contexts, including from the Storting, the right has made it very crystal clear that they can only sit in a government that conducts a responsible economic policy, including one. follows the action rule. In fact, I wonder whether the same applies to climate policy, whether the representative Ivar Kristiansen can clarify whether it is that the Right will only sit in a government that acknowledges that the climate problems are man-made, and that in that case it will only be relevant that the Foreign Minister, the Minister for Development and the Environment should deal with this internationally. Will they recognize that climate change is man-made?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e329	The reason for the climate challenges we do not at all disagree with. It's probably very small, if nothing, suggesting that this is not due to man-made activity. I think I can assure the representative, Mr Solhjell, that in this area you can safely rely on the Right. We have all the indicators that are needed to realize that we have to act now. As for the concern that the Right should not be as much to trust as the SV in this question, I think Solhjell can take it with quite a lot of rest. I don't know if Solhjell is particularly happy, but when Solheim's climate announcement finally came, there was only one party that said it was pleased with that climate announcement, and it was the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e336	During the previous major period, Vice-Chairman Sanner profiled an Econ report on the excellence of linking Norway to the euro. Sanner recommended it and said it was a wise strategy for Norway as a country. During the EU debate following the presentation to Gahr Støre just a short time ago, it was confirmed by the Right-wing Representatives in the Chamber. So my question to the main speaker of the Right in today's debate is: is it really Right's view that it would be wise for Norway to get closer to the euro now?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e343	The representative Sanner referred to this report, which clearly also describes the everyday life of Building Norway, the existence of District Norway, the lack of competitiveness, the weakening of competitiveness, also as a result of the fact that the very vulnerable Norwegian krone could be exposed to significant fluctuations. Norwegian paper industry, Norwegian fishing industry, farming industry and metal industry have repeatedly seen that the Norwegian krona in this context, especially in the context of international turbulence, can be very, very vulnerable. It has been shown, particularly in high economic cycles, that it has systematically contributed to a deterioration in Norwegian competitiveness. The representative of Vedum knows that very well. I understand the question, but it is a little strange to receive this from a representative who has even programmed to cancel the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e348	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e351	A little over two months ago, the representative Myhre and I were a meter or two inside North Korean territory. Let me correct it by saying that it was entirely legal, in a common house in the Demilitarianized Sons that the South Koreans and North Koreans used. Outside we could see the Korean top-train forces standing with their heads facing North Korea and on the other hand the North Korean top-train forces also facing North Korea. Both stood facing North Korea, forbidden by the same threat, North Koreans to escape to South Korea. Then it's exploded. But I think that the visit to Korea and the Committee's visit to Asia was an illustration of three features that now show how Asia can change international policy for decades to come, firstly because several of the most central and serious conflicts in the world are taking place in Asia – in Korea, China's conflict with its neighbours, in Iran, to name a few. Secondly, the close economic relationship that is now emerging in East Asia, measured as that part of interregional trade: the economic integration between South Korea, China and Japan is almost as close as the economic integration of the EU. There is a lot of progress in that direction, with highly integrated ownership structures in those countries. At the same time, China in particular, but also other Asian countries, has focused on becoming more active in foreign policy in a number of regions and countries. Both in Japan and South Korea, one is oriented towards the north and is interested in the possible openings of sailing rentals. South Korean ships have already sailed the north-east pass. Not least, we also see countries engaging more closely internationally – in Africa, on the U.S. continent and, of course, in Asia. In meeting this and other developments internationally, I believe that the main thrust of the budget's thinking, i.e. having an active policy internationally to move the world in the right direction and be active in a wide range of fields, but at the same time having a stronger effort to follow Norwegian interests in our neighbourhood in a wide range of fields, is a right thinking. Development aid has grown very strongly under the red-green government, which has followed up the efforts of the Christian People's Party to achieve the same in the reigning period before. It is also a broadening of development policy, where a job for new forms of funding, and where climate plays a more important role. Norway continues to play a role in important international conflicts, such as in Sudan and the Middle East – I could also have mentioned others. At the same time, there's also a clear line over five years where we're willing to follow up the tight interests of the northern regions by increasing the rewards and spending money on them. We have a strong knowledge effort in the north. We're working on energy in a range of fields in the north. Of course, the part-line agreement is important, but it is also important that we in the field of defence policy gradually inform ourselves against having a defence capable of asserting sovereignty, managing episodes and being ready to take on the responsibility that will increase in the future with the part-line agreement, but not least the potential changes in the Arctic when it comes to shipping are important. This is a good red-green budget, and it is also obvious that to the extent that there is another direction in the budget, the Right and the Advance Party are in common about that direction, but the dosage is very different between the two parties. A heavier aid effort, an increasingly internationally active role and a stronger civil and military commitment to the north are the main lines in this budget that follow the four years before it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e371	The representative, from Korea, took up some of the conflicts that characterize the Asian continent today, and so we have nothing similar to refer to on our continent, Europe. The reason, of course, is that NATO has given Europe peace for over 60 years. The Government and the Stortinget believe that Norwegian security policy is best addressed through Norway’s membership of NATO. Then is my question to the representative Solhjell: is the Socialist Left satisfied with the government's policy, considering that SV wants to withdraw Norway from NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e379	Seriously, we have had a number of very serious conflicts – even quite dramatic – on our continent over the last 60 years. Let me just first think about it. Already in 2003, I think it was, in reality, the three government parties explained two things between themselves. For the Labour Party, it was crucial that NATO membership should be continued if they were to sit in a red-green government, and for the SV and the Centre it was crucial that we should not become members of the EU, if one were to form a red-green government. It was actually decided in 2003, but formalised in 2005, in the Soria Moria Declaration. This does not mean that one cannot discuss how we are not a member of the EU – there are constant discussions between the parties in Norway and within the government and in the government party – and how NATO membership is to be managed, and what it will mean in a number of practical situations. I believe that all the government parties have been in agreement with this for many years, and at the same time we are discussing what it means in a number of individual matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e390	The representative Solhell spoke about the dosage between the Advance Party and the Right. It is likely that the dosage between SV and the Workers' Party was also very different before SV came into government. So things change. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. Through the draft budget submitted, SV has ensured that the Coast Guard is reduced on a daily basis, especially in the south. This means reducing coastal surveillance and depriving resource management. Furthermore, this will also weaken oil protection and not least the rescue capacity in our marine areas. Does SV think this is a sensible development of the Coast Guard?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e397	There's a stake on Coast Guard inside the long-term defense plan. It has been an important part of getting the plan in place, because the Coast Guard is going to play an even more important role for Norway in the years that come, of course, with regard to civil tasks, but also as part of the defence structure. SV will emphasise that they will receive a good follow-up in their budgets for next year, but not least that they will be included in the long-term plan towards 2012 and that they will be given an even stronger priority in the next long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e402	After all, the representative Solhjell and SV continue to attack the Right to cut the aid budget in the same way as the Advance Party. It is actually the case that the Right's alternative budget involves a cut in ordinary assistance of around 870 million. kr, while the Progress Party in its budget cuts around 8 billion. kr. The right-hand alternative aid budget is about the sum of the government itself spent on assistance in 2009. Is it as if in 2009 was a historic investment, in 2011 the proof that the world’s poorest is not a priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e407	Now I didn't use that kind of word in my post either. On the contrary, I said that the direction is equal, but the dosage is very different. What I think is the main difference is that over time, increasing by a billion or reducing by a billion is going to be of great importance. The right priority is very clear, that one wants to reduce aid. I also notice that it is in some contrast to what the British government is doing in an extremely tough economic situation. It's one of two areas the British Conservative government has chosen to screen. I have to say, I find it very surprising that one with a budget like Right here in the financial debate was characterised as a budget with enormous amounts of money, not even finding it possible to keep up the level of assistance proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e412	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e415	I want to focus on one main theme of the five minutes of the Center Party, and then I'm going to raise something we're proud of. We are proud to be part of a government cooperation that prioritises development and assistance, and in a period when the world is facing a financial crisis, a climate crisis and a major food crisis, it is important that countries such as Norway just prioritise resources for development. It's our duty, and it's in our interest. When world leaders before the turn of the millennium sat down to decide what were the most important challenges into the new millennium, extermination of extreme poverty and hunger were put on the agenda as the first item. The UN Millennium Goal One is to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger by 2015, including halving the proportion of people living on less than one dollar a day, and halving the proportion of those suffering from chronic hunger. According to the U.D., the number of people living in extreme poverty has dropped from nearly 1.3 billion in 1990 to 1.17 billion now. This means a reduction in the proportion of people living in extreme poverty, since 1990 from almost 30 pst. to 23 pst. The same estimates indicate that in 2015 we can see that this share has fallen to 13 pst. According to UNICEF from 2009, however, worldwide hunger increased from 850 million to 950 million people during 2008. These numbers show on the one hand that something is going the right way. On the other hand, the figures from UNICEF show that it is still a long way to go before all the world's citizens can eat saturated every day. That is why I think it is absolutely right that we increase support for climate-friendly agriculture, food security and the prevention of natural disasters by over 300 million. kr in the submitted budget. There is also a clear focus on women in the budget. In African agriculture, women play a crucial role, and I believe that a priority for women in the part of the development work related to agriculture is both necessary and effective. In this year's budget work here on the Stortinget, we have re-prioritized 90 million. kr. In cooperation with the Christian People's Party, we have prioritised the aid work done by Norwegian non-governmental organisations, civil society and the aid alliance GAVI, where Norway has a leading role. Voluntaryness is and has always been important for aid and development. Our own history is an example of the contribution of voluntary, often Christian organizations to solving important societal tasks. Tasks that we take for granted today that the public should solve were often the first to be taken up by voluntary organisations. In other words, the volunteer organizations went first, and the state came after. Similarly, non-governmental organisations have played a major role in development, and they continue to do so today. They are often well integrated into the community and have good local knowledge that national and international authorities do not have. By working with volunteers in the development work, we take advantage of the knowledge that volunteers possess, while the Norwegian model of close contact between authorities and the voluntary sector means that we have a close follow-up of the organisations on the ground. My claim is that it is Mission-Norway and the voluntary development work that has laid the foundation for the comprehensive development policy we have today. They showed the way, and it is still vital for the legitimacy of the development work of the population to 700,000 Nordics are permanent donors to an aid organisation every single month throughout the year. It shows an enormous public commitment, an commitment that is with and gives development policy broad popular support. This commitment is reflected here today by an alliance between the Center Party, the Christian People's Party, SV and the Workers' Party. We are further raising development policy and the voluntary actors in the area of assistance. I'm proud of that, and I think it's a right policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e434	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e437	I have registered that the Center Party has stated more than once that they are a defence-friendly party, and not least support for the local Homeland Protection has been of major importance to the Center Party. With today's draft budget, I think the Central Party must take on board that reality may not be as positive as you would have liked. I do not remember whether the representative was in the closed hearing on the situation in the defence, but it was not necessarily just merry information that came out there. My question to the representative is whether he can now assure the Storting that there will be funds for the next year for the necessary training, so that the HV crews will be trained on their objects, that they will have the necessary shooting training, that they will have access to the necessary equipment to do their job, and not least that they are able to keep a focus on what to do, rather than to argue about what they might not do, which is in any case only harmful to the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e450	After all, we have adopted a long-term plan, and we have stepped up the defence budgets both in 2009, 2010 and now in 2011 – so it is a stepping-up. With regard to the exercise activities in the Home Protection system, Home Protection has been through a very big transformation. The priority of this year's budget is to train larger sections of the follow-up and reinforcement forces. The estimate is that you can now approach 40 pst. Today it is approx. 20 pst. So it's going in the right direction, and it's part of the plan that's laid down by a total government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e455	The representative, Mr Vedum, is often concerned about the euro, and that is why I am going to ask him a question about the euro. There is no one in this room who does not recognise that the euro has major challenges in today's situation. But standing alone in a globalized world is not without challenges either. The picture is more nuanced than the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum would like to express. I would like to ask the representative a specific question, which I hope he can answer in a concrete way. The question is as follows: Would Norwegian export companies and Norwegian competitiveness be strengthened or weakened if Norway had now had the euro?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e463	My main points and those of the Central Party in relation to the euro have always been that some EU ideologists have had very great ambitions to have a single currency, and then there is a rush of it too quickly without other governance systems in place. We see the consequence of that today. There has been a desire to have a common monetary policy and a single currency, but then there is no political governance tool to deal with it when it comes to times of crisis. What we are seeing now is that the euro is faltering, and it is a danger of stability across Europe if we do not succeed in stabilising the situation we are now in. That is what is dramatic as of today, that some EU ideologists have had pussiness through a single currency, without popular support, without having the political governance tool, and then they are jeopardizing the development of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e468	There is no doubt that the euro zone is not an optimal monetary union. It's not the American Monetary Union either, to take another example. However, my question was very specific, and I did not understand that the representative replied to it: Would Norwegian export companies and Norwegian competitiveness have been strengthened or weakened if Norway had had had the euro now?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e475	I am very happy that I get more questions about the EU and the euro, because we have such good arguments. I am absolutely convinced that it would have been unwise for the Norwegian economy to be connected to the euro zone, because we have different economic developments. We have a very commodity-based economy in Norway, a lot of oil and gas, fisheries, forests – commodity-based resources. Therefore, we have economic cycles in Norway other than those seen in some central EU countries. Therefore, it would have been wrong to use the same interest rate policy and the same monetary policy for the Norwegian economy as used for, for example. German economy. That is why it is wise for us to have our own currency. If you look at neighbouring Sweden, which had a euro vote, I think it would have been good for them to say no to the euro. They have a completely different economic growth and development from that of other comparable EU countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e482	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e485	All the parties have a lot on their hearts when the foreign and defence budget is being treated, and that's natural. The dossiers are large and important. I want to start with a simple question: what's new? Under a majority government, there is no indication that anything will change in a budgetary procedure. Take, for example: international assistance. When the Storting recently dealt with the financial position, we saw the usual pattern: the government parties support the government's proposal, and it is adopted, the Christian People's Party proposes a few hundred million more, right one billion less, while the Progress Party cuts the aid by over 8 billion. kr. The Christian People's Party wants a better coherent Norwegian development policy. We therefore proposed in the financial debate to set up an investment fund of 10 billion. to contribute to the development of nutrition in the poorest countries. Unfortunately, it was voted down by the majority. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has had negotiations with the Government Parties in order to strengthen priority assistance objectives within the agreed budgetary framework. I am pleased that we reached a majority to increase the aid allocation to civil society by a total of 50 million. kr. That's $40 million. additional to the long-term development programmes of voluntary organisations. We are thus increasing a budget chapter that has not been taken part in the substantial growth in the aid budget in recent years. In addition, the funding for civil society's information work is increased by 10 million. kr. Norway plays a prominent role in the work of UN Millennium Development Goal 4 to reduce child mortality by two thirds by 2015. The global vaccine alliance, GAVI, has driven increased vaccine coverage in poor countries in its first ten years. That's how more than five million lives are saved. It's aid that really gives results. We are pleased that GAVI has received a new leader from our own country and from our party this week. The next few months will be important. By June 2011, the GAVI Alliance shall seek to make the world’s countries commit to further increasing vaccine use in the years up to 2015. It is therefore an important signal at the right time that Norway is now giving to the world community by increasing its support for GAVI. I'm also familiar with Sweden doing the same thing. The signals from Scandinavia are becoming trendsetting. We have to bet more strongly on what works best. I am also particularly pleased that the majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee – the Government Parties and the Christian People's Party – in the budgetary position is expressing the following: ‘Norway needs to strengthen its contribution to the GAVI in the last part of the Millennium Campaign by 2015 and proposes as a first step to increase the GAVI allocation by 40 million in 2011. crowns in addition to the government’s proposal.’;» We must promote global solidarity, but we must also further develop cooperation in our neighbourhoods. The northern regions are important for the Christian People's Party. We value the broad support for the broad lines of the Northern Region policy. As far as Nordic cooperation is concerned, we in the Christian People's Party are pleased to have been opened up by a unanimous committee to the proposal on ‘a review of the organisation of the Nordic Council of Ministers with a view to simplifying, streamlining and focusing work’. In defence policy, it is a strength for Norway that there is broad consensus on the main lines of security policy. And the 2011 budget will follow the long-term defence plan, which the Stortinget has adopted. Norway's defences have significant capacities. At the same time, the budget is characterised by the fact that there is still a tension between assigned tasks and available resources, as has been the case under changing governments. The situation also goes beyond the training and exercise activities in 2011 and the pressures on our crews in international operations are high. The situation in Home Security is also now so worrying that we believe that there is a need for a separate big message about the development of Home Security. Changeovers mean costs, including: for the operation of the Coast Guard. In the alternative state budget of the Christian People's Party, we proposed to increase the allocation to strengthen the Coast Guard. Modernisation of defence is a long-term but important task. Technology development is driving costs up, which we'll notice when the fighter planes are scheduled to be renewed in a few years' time. We must be realistic enough to recognise that we will face tough priorities for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e519	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e522	I want to start by giving commendation to the Christian People's Party – because the party has always had a great commitment to the world's poorest, and also praise because the party wants to be with the government parties in the aid priorities within the framework we are talking about today. I'm very pleased to be able to praise the Christian People's Party for that. Then there's one thing I'm wondering about. After all, the representative Svendsen himself insisted that the Right and Advance Party cut together over 9 billion. kr in the aid budget. The interesting thing to know then is how the Christian People's Party will deal with possible future government cooperation with the two parties that want to cut so hard in relation to the world's poorest. I wondered if the representative Svendsen could say a little about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e529	From this to say what future government cooperation, if any, will be like, there is no Christian People's Party today. The parties that are currently working together stand and stand very far apart in very many areas. When it comes to how the Christian People's Party sets itself up for cooperation parties and with which parties come in turn. I believe that no matter which way a co-operator works, one should find solutions to what is important for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e536	I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV have come together in the budgetary position that we are now dealing with. Some of the things that have surprised me a little in the debate today are Right's strong desire to concentrate assistance on fewer countries, because it's going to have the consequence that the voluntary organizations, the Mission Alliance and the Department of Assistance, are not able to operate as many small projects as they do today. I think some of the great thing about Norwegian development policy is that there are a lot of people who have a lot of commitment in the voluntary aid segment. This is why there are small and large projects in many countries. So I'm interested in hearing the Christian People's Party's assessment of the Right's desire to concentrate assistance on fewer countries when we know it's going to hit the voluntary sector and the Mission Alliance very strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e543	I'm very happy that we can agree on the volunteer and what's happening on that front. It's like where I come from, we're actually used to answering questions honestly and fairly. For me to comment on what the Right does – I actually think one should ask the Right Representatives about, and then they can define what they think about those questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e550	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e554	I think if this position is read internationally – and that’s good reason to believe, in many countries – it will be noticed that there is a broad consensus on the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy, and that Norway is essentially at peace with itself and in peace with the world around it, which is an economic and political surplus nation that takes responsibility for its own security and that is committed to international cooperation. The long lines are stuck. As far as NATO is concerned, it is interesting to note the unanimous wording of the Committee – of course, it includes all parties on the Stortinget – who talk about NATO and transatlantic relations as a cornerstone, who want a deepening and further development in relation to the United States, and who are working to ensure that NATO remains viable and relevant in a new era. It is a fairly solid selection from Norway a few weeks after NATO has adopted its new strategic concept, where we have put decisive leadership. We are in agreement on the EEA, we are in agreement on the UN and on development and engagement policies. This year, as last year, the Progress Party is in some ways the exception in this context. They are on important main lines, and I would like to commend the representative, Höglund, for an interesting and insightful analysis of the development of the north and the relationship with Russia. There are many points that I think it is important to follow up further. Here we have had the pleasure of having the contact and insight that the representative has through his Arctic parliamentary cooperation. But it is that the Progress Party separates layers because they choose not to use resources and cut resources. I really don't find much of an alternative foreign and development policy in the Progress Party. They're quoting some scattered reports, but it's constantly the cuts. I agree with the representative Svein Roald Hansen, who says that if it's so bad to provide assistance, it's crazy to waste 19 billion. When you see what kind of reference the assistance is generally given. But that point is made by others. What happens is that the Progress Party is proposing strategic cuts that have political implications. It is not mentioned in the attitude of the Progress Party as the purpose of the cuts, but the result would be that. As regards peace and reconciliation, the Progress Party agrees that peace and reconciliation policy is an overall task for Norwegian foreign policy. They've joined it. But they want to cut with 60 pst. United Nations organisations, such as the ILO and the WHO – the World Health Organization in the field, I know that organisation in particular – cut 50 pst. They call the Millennium Goals on Responsibilisation, while the rest of the world sees it as an attempt to focus and focus efforts. Middle East: 60 pst cut. I know that if Norway were to cut its appropriations for action in the Middle East, our role in the AHLC would be over, our contribution to strengthening the security of the Israelis would suffer a very great retreat, and our cooperation with the Palestinians as well, and also with the United States, of which the Progress Party is otherwise concerned. They are proposing to wind up support for Sudan, which is something that the Minister of Development and I work on every day in these days, precisely to try to contribute to a peaceful development there in 2011, where there can be a referendum and a very demanding process – also here in close cooperation with the United States. The sum of this is another policy through cut. It's cuttism, this. There's a sense of humor about this policy, where the world's richest countries are going to present themselves like the ones who cut in the help of the poorest. So there's one other point, which not many have mentioned, and it depends on the consistency of the policy. So it's like this, as far as I can see, last year's Progress Party wanted to cut 164 million. kr for operation in the traditional Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I then pointed out that such a cut would result in a series of closures of Norwegian foreign stations. This year, the Progress Party proposes to increase the same item by 12 million. kr. So you go from a cut of 164 million. Last year, as a sensible policy to pursue Norwegian foreign policy, for an increase of 12 million. kr in year. It goes beyond my understanding of how to conduct that policy from year to year. The angles are at least the way we felt outwards. To the representative of Kristiansen, who proposed to drop the embassy in Iran: I think this is a bad proposal. I don't think we're going to drive and set up embassies after whether we like the regimes. There have been regimes in the 20th century that we have greatly disliked, but where it was still wise to have embassies and diplomats who could report confidentially and wisely home to Oslo. I would also like to join those who congratulate Mr Dagfinn Højbräten on his position as Chairman of the International Vaccine Alliance. It shows the long and good engagement Norway has there, and it is good to see that GAVI thus gets an experienced and committed director of the board.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e586	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e589	First of all, the comment that we're winged. This government itself has changed from one year to another, for example. in relation to the swallowbard tax and the biodiesel tax. It is not only the Progress Party that operates in such a way as to make changes to its budget proposals. Then it's that you don't see alternatives in our policies, that it's just cuttism. This does not include the whole that we present in this position as well as in the financial position related to, for example: to invest in investments, to invest in private business and to invest in trading. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not see that this promotes alternative thinking in relation to it, while we are trying to take care of all the best in aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e596	I see that profile, but it's pretty weak. I'm generally concerned that the times you can get more for less, that's a good deal. But in this area, I see that the Progress Party is making such a deep cut with such a weak argument in so important areas for Norway that the result is a changed profile. That it is good with trade and that it is good with trading capacity is the government, the Labour Party and I fully agree. So that's not what it's about, but it's the sum of the cuts and the way they come out. Then I'll just come back to this with wings. Clearly, when you operate an organization where you have embassies and people and presence, you will cut 150 million one year. kr and the second year increase by 12 million. kr, is not just about making changes in priorities; it is a difference in substance when governing a department where there are people, employees, presence, buildings and embassies. I allow myself to point that out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e603	I would first like to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough review of the Foreign Policy of the Progress Party in his main contribution today. But that's not what I was supposed to ask him. On 24 November, a vote was held in one of the UN committees on whether to propose a Durban 3 agreement relating to the 10-year marking of 11 September and the terrorist attack on the United States. In this vote Norway chose to abstain. In the same vote, he chose, among other things, Canada, the United States, England, Germany, Denmark and Sweden to vote against. They want to boycott Durban 3, partly because they don't want a reprisal of what happened under Durban 2, when Iran's leader, in front of the meeting, both denied the Holocaust and made hate statements against Jews. Where has Norway been located in this terrain? Will the Foreign Minister follow the example of that country and the Durban 3 boycott? But perhaps most importantly, why did Norway choose not to vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e612	First, I would like to thank the representative for doing well for my review of the policy of the Progress Party. It's a clarification. Secondly, the UN has not taken a decision to initiate Durban 3. But I think that the starting point here, to say that one should boycott such a line because the President of Iran made an intervention in 2009 – that is an approach to how we use the UN, how we try to promote work, in this case against racism and discrimination – is not very appropriate. I stand on the line that Norway had in 2009, that is, that we use the UN spokesman to protest against such as Iran's President, and that the boycott line thus played in his hands to give an illustration that it was Iran against the West. I believe – as I did at the time – that it is better to use the UN Chair. If it's about coming up with a new Durban 3, we're going to have to evaluate the content of it and not go against it at this point in time. I think that is a bad opinion from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e619	I was originally going to ask the Foreign Minister's comment on the Evening Post statement the other day that the United States has little sense of Norwegian policy in our northern regions. But I'm putting it a little bit aside, just to get the opportunity to express that the Right has not proposed to drop our embassy in Iran. We asked questions about that. At the same time, with considerable surprise, I note that the Foreign Minister on this occasion, the budget day today, uses his entire contribution to talk about the Foreign Policy of the Advance Party, at a time when there are fires on many floors in all parts of the world around us. Is it such that it is our biggest challenge in a day like today, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks it is timely to use his whole contribution to comment on the Progress Party? If it's our biggest foreign policy challenge for the time being, it's really bad down on Victoria Terrace.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e626	Today we are discussing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has given a thorough account of foreign policy in the budgetary position. That's how I've listened to all the other speakers, the budget we're dealing with. I have, at the latest in my statement on EU/EEA matters, taken a thorough look at the serious economic situation in Europe. We've had interpellation debates on that, and I'm going to have a foreign policy statement on the New Year, where I come into it thoroughly. But it's here today that we're discussing the material basis of politics; what resources we're going to use, what agreements we have, and what disagreements we have. In my statement, I say that there are consensus that goes against one when you read this budget position, but there is one party that stands out from that consensus, and I think that this debate is there to focus on. As for the essay in the evening post that the representative does not ask questions about, I must be allowed to comment on it, and recommend him to read an insightful post from the American ambassador in Oslo. That look in today's Evening Post gives a good background for your own opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e635	There is a serious situation in the Korean peninsula with potential regional and global ring-effects. It might be interesting to hear the Foreign Minister’s assessment of developments in the Korean peninsula — how to reduce the tension, who should take responsibility for contributing to it, but not least how Norway would behave if the situation got worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e640	The situation is acute. It's alarming, and it's a buildup of weapons, mistrust and confrontation that should be troubling. Who's gonna take responsibility for that? First of all, we must insist that the parties, North Korea and South Korea, do so. In addition, we know that the United States and China are important countries in this context. They should take responsibility, and as far as I can assess, they take responsibility. I think the so-called six-party negotiations are important to come back to, because of the theme they are going to deal with – the North Korean nuclear program – but also because it is a trusting process. But what we're facing here is a North Korean regime that is wobbling, and obviously not able to meet the needs of its people. The pressure that comes from there can only be solved by another policy in North Korea. Norway will follow suit. We have expressed our support for the six-party negotiations through the UN and other channels. We are an important humanitarian contributor – also in North Korea. We'll keep doing that. And then we have to encourage once again that there is restraint and accountability in the use of weapons, politics and rhetoric in this region.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e649	In the same way as the representative Kristiansen, I also reacted to the fact that the Foreign Minister chose to use his three minutes solely to describe the policies of the opposition parties. He spent two and a half minutes talking about the Progress Party and partly at seaing the characteristics of the Progress Party politicians, at least one of them, and half a minute talking about the Right Policy. In response to Kristiansen, the Foreign Minister says that today we are discussing what resources we should have at our disposal in 2011. So it didn't use the Foreign Minister for a single second of his statement to describe it. Then I ask: is it that the total absence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to present the government's policy in the debate we have today was a mere forget?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e657	I have five minutes of posts, and what we are debating here today, I perceive to be the attitude of the committee. It's interesting to read. It speaks for itself. The government's policy has been thoroughly outlined in the budget. I don't spend five minutes repeating or taking a short summary of it. I think it's right to point out the political dividing lines, that's what's interesting about this setting in my opinion. The representative Myhre may disagree – but I think he agrees, because I quote what the Progress Party here says and goes in for. I believe it is part of my responsibility to point out the consequences of the policy that I see. The consequences of government policy are well described in the budget. It is described by the Labour Party, the government majority and in cooperation with other parties at Stortinget in the setting. I think a budget debate should be able to focus on the differences. That it does not fall into the taste of the Advance Party, I get to know, and otherwise I am willing to discuss Norwegian foreign policy anywhere and anywhere else, in this room and elsewhere in the social debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e664	In view of the significant challenges we face internationally, I think it was striking that the Minister for Foreign Affairs spent a great deal of his intervention on the percentage review of some parties' alternative budgets for this area. Since it is obvious that the government always uses the right means – not too much, not too little, all that this government does is the right thing – I also have to ask one specific question, since it is also the government's finest moments and the best moments when they tell you what they're doing in the processes. With reference to Sudan and the Middle East: With the considerable efforts made by taxpayers, is the Foreign Minister satisfied with the results achieved? To what extent can one even trace a picture of these billions going to these areas from Norwegian taxpayers?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e669	Now I notice that the Right has joined those appropriations. So that means they're at least taking that line that it's kind of a reasonable resource use. When I mention the use of money to the United Nations, the Middle East, peace and reconciliation, it is the core areas of policy, and we believe that the level to which we have put ourselves on is where we can get the most back. It's not exactly science. We have argued why we should lie there, and I note that the Right essentially agrees with that. When it comes to whether the money is used well, yes, I believe they do. As far as the Middle East is concerned, the budget deficit in the Palestinian territories is about to fall. The need for external financing is now falling. The money is used better. The World Bank says that this help is useful. It benefits from safety, education and health. In Sudan, we have been involved in a project that is about enabling that country to deal with a North-South conflict that can be very, very serious to the world if it goes wrong. Capacity building in the south, development in a very precarious humanitarian situation and assessment of that aid, I believe it has come out well and for good benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e680	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e683	In 2008, Stortinget addressed the long-term defence plan 2009–2012. The action plan is a very important document for our defence. It points out the direction ahead. We are now halfway in the period, and it is due to be completed in 2012. The basic element of the long-term plan is increased operational capability. There is a balance between defence tasks, structure and resource availability. Then it's natural to ask the question, where are we today? We have a defense that is relevant and that holds a high international standard. We safeguard our national interests and rights, and our rights in the northern regions, and we participate in operations on behalf of the international community. We couldn't have done that without competent crews and modern materials. However, I see that the work situation of the individual in many cases can be very stressful, not least because of our commitment to Afghanistan. I also see that this is struggling with the defence's total resources. However, I would like to commend our soldiers who, despite the heavy burden, are presenting Norway in the demanding contributions we have in Afghanistan. It is also important in such a defence policy context to be able to make priorities. It's our job as politicians to prioritize. It must not be a purely crown fight without saying clearly what we are prioritizing. We give priority to accepting and operating new aircraft, helicopters and modern vessels, as well as Norwegian military presence in the north, among others. The draft budget under consideration today means, among other things: increased activity of the Naval Defense Force, continued personnel development in the Army and phase-in of new transport aircraft. In addition, there is provision for increased training and the area structure of Homeland Protection. We need to strengthen the appropriations for the security of Norwegian forces in Afghanistan, and the training activity in the Home Office is significantly higher with this budget. At the same time, we must not forget that Norway is in a privileged situation. We can afford to follow the long-term defence plan with increased appropriations, while the challenges for many of our allies are, to a large extent, reductions in defence budgets — formidable reductions. We are further strengthening this year's budget by 75 million. kr in 2011. In addition, we're releasing 233 million. to improve efficiency. The budget also clearly states that we need to build up activity levels over the long term. We need to shift the resources of the higher priority measures in order to increase operationality. We have promised to have a defence in economic balance in 2012. We'll take care of that. There have been strong changes in Defence. It has been crucial for modernisation and for the proper functioning of the reform. So finally some words about the Svalbard budget for which I am the case rapporteur. I am very pleased that there is firmness about our Svalbard policy, namely that it is consistent and firm enforcement of our sovereignty enforcement of the Svalbard Treaty. calm and stability in the area of conservation of the unique wilderness nature and the environment maintenance of Norwegian communities on the island group It is a great strength that the Committee agrees on these points. I am also pleased that the Committee is unanimous in its comment. In particular, I would like to stress that we agree that Longyearbyen is not going to develop into a life-cycle society. It's very important. There has been some discussion about the Svalbard community, that it should not evolve into a tax haven. I think that's very important. We'll get back to that, but the Storting must follow that development very closely. Of course, we are quite free in the Storting to make the fiscal decisions we want in this regard, but it must not evolve into a tax haven and a free area.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e723	Today's debate is important to very many affected, and I want to keep my main focus on the fact that this year we have lost five lives in Afghanistan. Part of this discussion that we have today must focus on the risks and consequences of Norwegian foreign policy and the operational part of it. My main focus will be on what is happening in Afghanistan. Every time we lose someone, do something with us. It is responsible for the political system. It makes our efforts responsible, and it challenges us at the same time to do the right thing. When we discuss the budget for next year, we're going to do it based on the fact that, unfortunately, next year too, there may be episodes that make us lose human lives in 2011. The challenge is, are we aware of that? Are we ready for that? Do we assume the responsibility we have when we send people out to contribute within ISAF, to mention an example where this happens? The answer should, and must be yes in a way, since we have chosen to contribute. In the extension of it: do we do a good enough job to secure and protect our soldiers and others who are out, maximum? I think, unfortunately, that the answer is no, because there may be better equipment, and there is still an ongoing discussion about whether we have the optimal equipment. Another necessary question in the same direction is, do we take good care of the parents of those who are there? Do we take care of girlfriends, cohabitants, spouses of those who are out — and the children of those who are out? And once again, it's my clear belief that we have a lot to go on to do a better job. I had the pleasure of being part of the Foreign and Defence Committee to Afghanistan in April. One of the constant feedback from the soldiers down there was that they lacked an experience of support from political Norway. If those who are going to take the primary risk that those who have ordered the assignment are not standing up with them, then the government is failing, and the Storing fails in assuming the responsibilities that are beyond doubt. I think that's gross. I would be much happier if you could have visited people out there who had said, "Yes, we're doing a job, and we're proud of the support we have from home." When they ask for it, it is possible that from a political point of view you have not been clear enough, that the Stortinget has not been clear enough, or that the government has not been clear enough to communicate the importance of the job done. I don't think we're allowed to do that. Because it's a fact that those who are out there are taking the risk. The risk of loss of life and limbs in this room is minimal. Here you can get political cuts and political cuts, but you certainly don't die of it – hopefully. But others actually take that risk. I sometimes think that we're bobbing about talking about the most important things. We can talk about cuts in aid. We can talk about presence and sovereignty. We can talk about how many embassies we should have. But I actually think that we should focus on what is probably the most important thing, one of the most important things for the Norwegian people: to make sure that any Northman who is out and serving with the flag of the uniform has the best possible condition for making the job optimal. But perhaps most importantly, they have the prerequisites for and are sure that they – he or she – will come home again. If not, I think we're going to fail. In this way, I am proud to belong to a party that makes a significant strengthening of the defence budget, which wants to strengthen the Army by 350 million. kr, who wants to strengthen the Marine by 300 million. SEK, Coast Guard with 250 million. kr, Heimevertet with 200 million. kr and Air Force 200 million. kr, because we think it's important. And because of the feedback we have received through the budget consultation, through reports from the National Audit Office, through clear-spoken and courageous employees and others in the Defense who dare to point out shortcomings, we have taken it over and want to do something about it. It is an annual sequence to participate in an open budget hearing. In addition, this Committee shall have a closed budget hearing. I'm not going to go into what's going on there, but I still have a good time to experience it as a pleasant view. It says something about the samples we're actually facing. I think – with respect to reporting – that the issue that has now been raised about the Home Protection and Home Security conversion has shown a lack of political leadership and a lack of political loyalty that I do not believe benefits the defence at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e740	The right supports a high level of funding for development and assistance. Right-wing wants a development and assistance policy focusing on results, rather than government's symbolic targets on the percentage of gross national income. Development policy should have clear geographical and thematic priorities and must have the long-term objective of making aid self-sufficient. The Norwegian debate on aid – and we have seen this demonstrated here today – focuses on the size of aid appropriations, usually as a percentage of gross national income, as a feature of a good poverty reduction policy. The right reminds us that the goal is the most possible development, not the most assistance possible. As Professor Øyvind Østerud said yesterday: ‘Help is measured by how much we give, rather than by the effect of the assistance. It's an element of naivety; you think the effort itself should give the effect you want to achieve. It is not considered that misuse or assistance can be counterproductive.» Development policy must be measured in results, not in appropriations. An important criterion will be whether Norway is able to pursue a coherent and consistent development policy. For the right, it is important that more instruments are used and that different policy areas need to be considered in the context if Norway is to be able to contribute positively to development and poverty reduction. Consensus between different policy areas and different departments is therefore very important. At the same time, the assistance we must continue to provide must be more concentrated and targeted and subject to stricter performance requirements. Trade is another significant contribution to growth and development, and the Right therefore wants to open up duty-free market access, including for countries on the DAC list with over 75 million inhabitants. A continued high level of assistance from the rich countries is necessary to achieve the UN’s Millennium Goals. However, in the context of traditional assistance, the Right wants a clearer thematic and geographical focus and more stringent requirements for the recipient countries when it comes to developments in democracy, rule of law and governance. In particular, we will impose strict requirements on countries receiving Norwegian budget support and other state-to-state assistance. On the right, Norwegian assistance to Africa and some particularly important thematic areas such as health and education will be concentrated. We therefore remove Norwegian bilateral support for Latin America and reduce it to Asia, with the exception of Afghanistan. Assistance to Afghanistan is essential to contribute to the success of the Afghan authorities in cooperation with the international community, in particular the UN and NATO. This requires better services such as health and education and better infrastructure such as roads and water supply. We need to ensure that Norwegian support for multilateral organisations is used effectively and in support of key Norwegian development policy objectives. Evaluation of the efforts of UN organisations needs to be followed up with clear budgetary implications for those organisations that are considered to be inefficient and target-conscious. Therefore, the right wants to cut Norwegian transfers to some UN organisations, including UNDP. Finally, a few words on support for the information work of Norwegian organisations. The right considers that the development budget should be given more priority. In this context, it is natural to cut in those posts which at least contribute to direct poverty reduction. Support for information work in Norway can hardly be considered as assistance in the traditional sense. That's why the Right wants to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e760	In the financial debate last week, there were not many posts dealing with Norway’s involvement outside its borders. I think that's a little sympathetic, because in general, it's important that we also raise our eyes a little bit from our own navel. When we discuss this today, we focus of course on a little bit different since we, among other things. discusses the framework of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I think it is important to point it out. Norway is a small country, but has always and traditionally had great international involvement. I think that's important. During the financial crisis, we have seen that many European countries have begun to cut aid, and that is worrying. In the financial debate I also addressed the discussion around 1 pst. of the GNI ambition, to which some parties are strongly critical, inter alia: The previous speakers. It is critical because it is quality and results that are important and not quantity. Then I just want to repeat that it is of course the content and the results that are important, but I think it might be wise to see our international assistance in relation to how much income our country actually has. The Committee has been consulted on the budget and received many input from various aid actors from many different organisations. The government received, among other things: criticism of not giving priority to civil society chapter high enough. There is a criticism the majority in the committee has taken seriously. The government parties therefore joined forces with the Christian People's Party to see if we could do anything about it. We agreed on a re-priority within the framework, which means that it will be 50 million. kr more to Civil society, of which 10 million. kr shall be used for further strengthening the information work of voluntary organisations. In addition, the majority, with the same parties, agreed to strengthen the work of GAVI and vaccines by 40 million. kr. I want to repeat the rose that I gave to the Christian People's Party instead, for the good cooperation. I think the majority has made a wise priority. The Right Party and the Advance Party have both chosen to cut the aid – the Progress Party by over 8 billion. kr, and right with a round billion. We know that the two parties are coming together in many political areas, but I have to say that I am particularly concerned that they are doing so in the area of aid. It sends a strong signal of what will happen if the two parties come into a situation where they will rule the country. The Progress Party is cutting in many areas of assistance, not surprisingly, with the reason that there is a great deal of corruption and aid-related problems, and that it is felt that the aid does not produce enough results. All batches of the Storting are concerned with preventing corruption, obtaining results and providing quality assistance. Norway has strict routines on this very point. It is therefore a little special that when the Progress Party is so concerned with the quality of the assistance, it is still chosen to cut to those who want to ensure this quality, such as: NORAD. At the same time, they write in their comments about everything they're concerned about, and that's everything from the development of infrastructure, health and education, to actions to promote democracy, to mention something. My question is, of course, it'll be easier or harder to get everything you want when you cut over 8 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? It's a so-called leading question, and the answer really gives itself. In its draft budget, the right has been concerned with concentrating assistance to fewer countries. This means that they are e.g. Cuts all aid to Latin America and strongly to Asia. They justify their opposition to providing assistance to Latin America by being skeptical about investing in middle-income countries. In this context, I feel the need to point out that, for example: Nicaragua is Latin America's second poorest country. The Progress Party justifies its cuts in the region by providing politically motivated assistance. Then I want to mention that yesterday I met a lady named Argentina Espinoza from Nicaragua. She runs a women's organization that works with women's sexual and reproductive rights. She works with violence against women and work related to the ban on abortion, which is in the country. Her organization provides information to young girls and helps girls who have been assaulted. To support the kind of organisations I think is important, and I think that is right. It's a political motive that I live very well with. Finally, yesterday I was also at the launch of a report by the Swedish National Council for Children’s and Youth Organisations on children’s and young people’s place in the aid policy. This report launches several measures to improve Norwegian aid policy and is a good example of the great commitment that exists in our country towards assistance. We're supposed to be happy about that. I am proud, I, to be elected to a country that wants to strengthen the work towards the world's poorest, and that does not devalue the powerful cuts that the Progress Party stands for. The party of progress is being upset here today because many people point out the cuts they stand for and experience it as a hoax. It's not harelation. It's a truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e781	I see the position in the field of defence as a confirmation of the broad opening up of defence policy. Because this government conducts a responsible economic policy and has managed the oil wealth in the long term, we have a unique freedom of action. Where large parts of NATO countries cut the defence budgets, we have the opportunity to increase. Where others have to resign, we're recruiting new ones. Where others have to cancel material investments, we buy new ones. The government continues its commitment to the Defence in 2011 and pursues the main objectives of the long-term plan. That means that: The strengthening contribution in Afghanistan continues at a high level of modernisation, inter alia. new vessels, aeroplanes and helicopters the military presence in the north increases the veterans' escort Our defense is one of the best in the world. We're converting to meet today's threats and have come further than most other allies. These tasks are solved with competent and motivated crews and modern materials. This is made possible by changes in the arrangements, structure and organisation of several governments in the last decade. This government keeps what it promises. The main objectives of the long-term plan — a more sustainable balance between budget, tasks and structure — are within reach. In 2002, a majority of the Right and Christian People's Party adopted a stronger strategic direction in the defence sector. We agreed on the objectives. Stronger strategic management and governance have been crucial for the work of releasing 31 billion. kr for more priority tasks in the sector during the decade. Another result is improved management and control. The model has given several soldiers and a slimmer top management. It is essential that such gains should not be reduced or lost by reversing the major lines of the reform. An overall opposition now points out that the management model challenges military independence. The truth is that the opposition is waving, depending on the case. In some cases, the opposition wants to increase independence, while in matters of disagreement, the opposition expects me to intervene and control the defense chief in detail. This is going to be inconsistent. The Right Party and the Advance Party make the budget a clean crown fight, while the key is to ensure sustainable development through a systematic and planned effort on the whole. Any government shall ensure that the appropriations are used effectively. This requires predictability in budget and planning. The alternative to that arrangement is unsustainable. The party claiming that the operational capacity of the defence has been declining in recent years. Then I have to ask: Is the phasing-in of new vessels in the Fridtjof Nansen and Skjold class reflecting downstream operational capacity? Is the phase-in of new transport aeroplanes and helicopters an indication of downstream operational capacity? Is historical effort on the Army an expression of downturnal operational capacity? No, this is an expression of a significantly increased operational capacity with significant impact. If anything, this is a budget for increased bet also on training and practice. Just look at more about training, ammunition and personnel for the Army, and also a significant increase in activity next year, compared to 2008. No one has been served with a detached notice of Homeland Protection. All governments in recent years have sought a balance between tasks, structure and resources. The consensus on an overall approach to migration is now being challenged. Home protection is given its natural place in the long-term plan for 2013–2016. It is wrong when the Right claims that the proposition has changed in respect of the so-called ‘garden battlegroup’ – it is not mentioned at all in the proposition. All Coast Guard vessels are patrolling next year. The draft budget provided for one vessel in the internal coastguard in South Norway not to patrol in 2011. After a review, I have concluded that the emergency response will be well taken care of by spreading the savings on several vessels. The acquisition of secure access to communications satellites will be subject to competition through a addressed request to relevant operators in the market of satellite suppliers, where Norwegian operators will also be given the opportunity to make offers. The transition is challenging. The government takes these challenges seriously. The draft budget shows that the government is betting on the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e841	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e845	Today, several media refer to the claims in the WikiLeaks leaks that central members of the government apparatus should have allowed the Americans to understand, before the decision was finally taken, that they were going to go for the purchase of the JSF. My question to the Minister of Defence will be as follows: can the Minister of Defence assure the Grand Council that the Americans may not have had such an opinion in any way?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e850	It is not natural to comment directly on the leakages, but I can assure the representative Ellingsen that the process that was run around the elections of fighter aircraft was solid, thorough, professionally well planned, and politically also openly implemented, as has also been commented both by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the current Minister of Health. This is very central in a process dealing with such an important issue as fighter aircraft, which concerns so significant sums, and which will of course also be followed up in many rounds also in this room related to the discussion of the order and purchase authorisation. That is also stated in the budget proposal that I have just presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e855	My next question is about internal efficiency improvement in Defence. This year's big investment is 75 million. NOK – if I don’t remember completely wrong – and then it’s internal efficiency improvement of 235 million. kr, I think it was. I have seen that it is difficult to guarantee the implementation of this as early as this year – to release the corresponding funds. This has also been reflected in the general orientation of the defence budget. I also understand that the floors that are actually going to deliver this product are struggling with that. The question is then quite simply: does the Minister for Defence think that it is feasible to take out such an efficiency gain until next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e860	I think that is clearly realistic, and I think it is demanding anyway. There is no alternative to continue the conversion in Defense. We have implemented major structural changes and are to enter a phase of continuous improvement work. This is of course aimed at maximising the operational power of the money that is earmarked for defence, and at ensuring that we operate and manage the model that is as cost-effective as possible. Here's a great job in the defense already, and I expect it to be followed up as well. I have good faith, as said, that we should be able to succeed in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e865	As we know, the defence has undergone significant changes in the last decade, and we also know that migration is demanding for those affected by it. If you are to succeed, you must motivate both those involved and keep the motivation. It is also a general impression that crews have shown great flexibility and adaptability. My question to the Council of State is short and good: does the Council of State think that it is a reasonable step by the State to deny this willingness to relinquish the soldiers their acquired rights by abolishing the benefit they have had of free return travel?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e872	Conversion is important, motivation as well. There are several priorities set out in the current long-term plan that are demanding, and yet I do not see an alternative to ensuring that more priority tasks are also allocated to resources. One of the decisions that have therefore been taken is to change the previous right as, among other things, staff members have had free travel which has not been linked to the performance of their duties. It has been far more important for me to secure as much money as possible for training and practice. In particular, the discussion on Home Affairs shows how urgent it is to deploy more resources for training and training, for example. the area structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e877	The impression left by the Minister of Defence is that in this area too, we are among the best in the world – with one of the world's best defenses. At the same time, the message, and the concentration, are mostly about the opposition as ‘wings’. I have noticed that during the day the opposition has received strong criticism where we cut. So where we're adding the vector, this is unprofitable. We're waving. I think the government parties have to decide to have a line in this which is a little bit more credible than that. But in this beauty painting of reality, it's quite clear that we get a different picture from the Minister of Defense than we get when we meet the boys and girls out in the field, in uniform. Is it so that there are gratitude the Councils meet in their meetings with trustees for those who are in uniform?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e886	I experience the cooperation with the civil servants' organisations as very constructive. The role not least of them in the conversion work shall not be underestimated. I think the contribution of the civil servants' organisations has been very central, not least over the last decade, to get this release: the release of the 31 billion. NOK, as I mentioned. That's why it's going to be so important, maybe not least towards the 2.5 billion. kr as the representative Kristiansen spoke about earlier today – keeping focus on: What is the most effective structure in Norwegian defence? Because it is through conversion, increasingly efficient operation and administration that we can ensure stronger operational capability. It's a fact that in the next year, Norway might have what we can call Europe's most modern navy. And the feedback we get about our soldiers, including in international operations, is excellent.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e891	The Northern Region Initiative has been focused on the part of the Council of State and it has been stressed that the presence in the North should be given priority. With the draft budget submitted, the Progress Party finds this somewhat strange. Because with this budget, there will be a decline in the operational capacity of the Maritime Defence Agency and thus a low rate of navigation in the northern regions. The number of days sailing per frigate is estimated to be 85 and has been added to three operational frigates in 2011. This is not a lot of presence. How does the Minister of Defence feel that this will ensure the presence in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e898	I don't know if I recognized myself in this problem. We phase in new frigates, and we phase new ships into the Skjold class. We give priority to sailing in the north, and as I have said in connection with previous discussions on the budget, it was actually bombed by up to 100 pst. in the estimated number of days sailing on the frigates. They are, as far as I know, next year estimated at 85 sailing days. Of course, the totality of the Navy and the Coast Guard is the basis for me to say with my hand on the heart that we have stronger activity in the north than we have ever had – using these important capacities. And that's important, given the major challenges that lie in the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e903	I also want to talk about the Maritime Defense. Norway had a frigate, ‘Fridtjof Nansen’, in the Gulf of Aden at the very beginning of this year and a little last autumn. The reason why it was there, of course, was that it is important for Norway to ensure the safety of international shipping – not least the crew on board – against attacks by armed terrorists and pirates. So now it's almost a year since 'Fridtjof Nansen' was moved home, and we have five frigates in Norway. Then my question is: Will the government – will the Minister of Defense – take responsibility in the Gulf of Aden and send a Norwegian frigate so that we do not always leave the security task to other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e911	As a major maritime nation, it is obvious that Norway is involved in taking responsibility in the Gulf of Aden. We have made contributions with our own frigate, and we have had orders on Swedish command ship. Of course, the probability that we have a contribution left in the Gulf of Aden in the foreseeable future is great. As of today, it is not planned for the next year. The frigates are now being deployed continuously, and I expect that we will most likely have a vessel left in the Gulf of Aden during 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e916	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e919	Norway is doing very well. Unemployment is low, employment is high, productivity is increasing, and growth is rising in the mainland economy. This also makes the contrasts of other countries great. The financial crisis affects countries around us in the sense that it means cuts in the country's aid budget, and that also means cuts in the defence budget of other countries. The 2011 budget shows that the government is leading, and is given the opportunity to pursue, a long-term, active and recognisable foreign and defence policy. There is a broad anchoring in this Chamber on the main lines of that policy. Although Norway is a small country in the world, we are also able to put significant footprints in the world in 2011. The Minister of Foreign Affairs used the term ‘surplus nation’. That's a good idea. It also gives us a very great responsibility in the field of foreign and defence policy, perhaps not least in the area of aid and trying to correct some of the imbalances in the world. The fact that we have a long-term foreign and defence policy does not, of course, mean that we should not have a critical look at what we are doing and that we should pursue policies of old habit. On the contrary, we are constantly going to base the new world and the new global security image, and this is changing faster than ever. So I am very pleased that in the 2011 budget we are able to keep the fight against poverty in the world as a main priority, and that we are not least betting on supply of electricity, energy. It is of great importance to economic growth. 85 pst. of the African continent does not have access to electricity. Norway’s development is a good example of why energy and electricity supply are important for development. So there is a significant investment in 2011, for which we should be pleased. In addition, the northern regions are the main strategic area of government, with a budget of 1.2 billion. kr. We've also discussed many times in the past why the northern regions are important to us, so I'm just referring to what has been justified in the past around it. Then I think it is alarming that the Progress Party cuts as they do in the aid budget. It was an AUF once at the National Labour Party meeting who said it was kind of like this, that he was glad that Siv Jensen was not Prime Minister in Norway and came to the UN General Assembly and said: I am from the world's richest country and have cut the aid budget by 8.2 billion. kr. I fully agree with the AUF at the National Labour Party meeting, and I am very pleased about that. It is a policy that, if it had been implemented, would have significantly weakened Norway's reputation in the world and contributed to the fact that we had managed to care for our own interests very badly. In addition, it is contrary to the perception of people most. There is broad agreement in the Norwegian people that we should be a nation that contributes to aid and to cushioning the world's differences. So the Progress Party is pursuing a policy that is contrary to the majority of the Norwegian population. Then I just want to comment on a couple of things. First, I want to present a very concrete challenge to Morten Höglund. Morten Höglund is doing an exemplary job in many areas of foreign policy, I mean. Not least, through his OSCE cooperation, he has a broad international commitment to what can be called Eurasia. It is then quite remarkable that the Progress Party halves the budget line called Other ODA-approved OSCE countries, heading 73, Chapter 164. Eleven countries receive funding from this chapter: Belarus, Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan – i.e. countries around which the representative Højlund has a significant involvement. I wonder very specifically how Höglund in the OSCE will justify the cutback of the Advance Party in this effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e938	To the previous speaker: The drama is probably not so enormous about the main feature of future Prime Minister Siv Jensen in the UN General Assembly. The assistance budget of the Progress Party is 18.8 billion. So kr is 7.12 pst. of GNI, for which the Workers' Party is so concerned — at least occasionally. It is higher than the objective set by the United Nations and the EU for assistance. There's no point in itself for us in the Progress Party, but that's what's right. Corruption measures are important in assistance and development. Norway committed 34.8 million in 2009. to aid-related anti-corruption measures. Targeted for an aid budget of 27 billion. kr this represents only 0,12 pst. of the total aid budget. When hundreds of millions disappear as in the case of Grameen Bank, it is important that assistance measures are better followed up. According to the magazine Aid Current, last year the Ministry of Foreign Affairs received 101 new cases of corruption for treatment. Most of them were in charge of assistance. Yes, I believe that the extent of corruption in many of the recipient countries makes the aid meaningless. Economic growth and development of wealth and well-being are impossible when the country's authorities are characterised by corruption. Budgetary support and other aid to corrupt dictatorships are unfortunately also contributing to these regimes continuing to defraud their countries. In the newspaper Defence Forum earlier this year, Development Minister Erik Solheim stated that Africa will be affected by climate change conflicts. Furthermore, he claimed that the conflict in Darfur is an example of such conflicts. This is very unfortunate. It gives Africa's most corrupt dictators something to blame for. It gives recognition to Omar el-Bashir in Sudan that the genocide was not due to the dictatorship of el-Bashir, but was due to it. The example of the climate conflict in Darfur is very little chosen, since that conflict has been going on since the 1200s, when Muslim groups for the first time entered the area. I mention this because it is important to have coherence in aid policy. We need to know what is the cause and what is the effect, so that we can choose the right means to move on with the development work. Then the government, the Council of State, the Department and the Norad should follow closely each country and project. After each year, they should review each individual allocation and see if there are any results to track. If it works, it's good. If there are no results, we will also stop the projects concerned. However, there is no overall independent evaluation of Norwegian u-help. There's reason to criticize this, because it's about so much money, and because we don't know enough about what's being achieved with the money we have. African countries have become political independents, but are still economically dependent on the Western world. Using the WTO, the World Trade Organisation, as a means of giving developing countries access to these countries with their export products is better unhelp than pumping money. A unanimous opinion among those I've talked to on visits to Africa is that what Africa needs is infrastructure. They need roads, motorways, electricity supply networks, energy production and not least ports in order to participate in international trade. Just look at Tanzania. Norway has granted 22 billion. 50 years. Of course, it's had an effect, but it's not weird stuff. Poverty is overwhelming in Tanzania. The country lags behind every year that goes. People live in log cabins, tents or wavehouses, or they simply sleep on the pavement under the open sky. Where has it become of the 22 billion? Money can be spent many times, over and over again, but I'm afraid that much of the aid money goes right back to Europe, ordering more BMWs and more champagne for corrupt regimes in the poorest of poor countries. How long are we going to continue with this? For another 50 years - or maybe 100? We need to make stricter demands in the field of emergency work. The progress party will do this quite differently. The aid policy of the Progress Party consists of providing assistance to poor countries, but we must attach strict demands to aid. The recipient countries need to develop democracy, human rights, the market economy and free trade, so that countries gradually free themselves from the dependence on financial subsidies. Then we must be very hardy in our fight against corruption. Assistance shall not be a permanent solution but a temporary aid for self-help, freedom and economic independence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e957	I think in many ways we have had an interesting debate today. Some might say that it'll be a little jumpy when we discuss assistance in the south and coastguards in the north in one and the same debate. But I'd rather say that it shows the complexity of foreign and security policy, because there's a connection between what's happening in the south and what's happening in the north. It shows such debates as the one we have today. This government has a single unified foreign, defence and security policy. But what is the opposition's alternative policy? On the one hand, it is said that there is a broad consensus on foreign and security policy in Norway. At the same time, however, the defence policy in Norway is partly criticised. I'll go a little bit closer to some of the defense questions. I've really been trying to figure out what is the alternative defence policy of the right-wing parties. It doesn't exist. There is no alternative comprehensive policy. But what characterises the right-hand side's defence policy is that they are opposed to restructuring when there's noise about them, and that's when restructuring takes place. Home security is in a major restructuring, perhaps the largest ever. The overall objectives for it have been adopted by the Stortinget, based on the long-term plan of the Bondevik II Government. Then there'll be noise. There will be constant noise during restructuring, as it was around HV-016 in Stortinget last Friday. The right hand parts, then, do not have the ability to be principled. If there be noise out there in a matter, the matters, small as large, are brought into this room. It does not provide a predictable defence policy. The majority shall draw up the main lines of defence policy, but implementation shall be the responsibility of defence. The opposition will have a notice of the Home Security, and that in the middle of the long-term period. So what is now happening in the Homeland Protection Agency is based on what has been decided by the Swedish Government in the long-term plan of the Bondevik II Government and in the current long-term plan. The government is following up what has been the Storting's policy. Home security doesn't need any more plans. Home security needs training, weapons, ammunition and equipment. In the setting, the opposition also says that they will evaluate the ISL, Integrated Strategic Management, where the defence management is co-located with the Ministry of Defence – also adopted by the Bondevik II government and the Council of State Kristin Krohn Devold. As for the reason for this, I'm going to quote from the setting what the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party say. DeEthiopian month 5 - ShortName ‘shows that the experience with the ISL is not seen as positive and that the co-location between military and civil management seems to pose challenges related to professional military independence, unclear responsibilities and’ — and now it’s funny — ‘political intervention at a low level in planning and decision-making processes’. So it says the same thing that last Friday wanted the Storting to decide the organization of the Home Protection at the level of the troops, not to talk about the matter of what kind of armored vehicle we are going to buy for our forces in Afghanistan. At first the big thing was that we had too bad a vehicle, so you throw yourself around quickly and do a job in terms of what it is possible to get hold of a vehicle that is better than the ones we have. One go to the acquisition of what the Defence's management said was the best armoured vehicles that it was possible to get hold of. Then there is criticism because everyone is not quite satisfied with the vehicle that has been selected, and then they are brought with them – I kept saying – the matter into the Stortinget. There will be a debate in Stortingen about what kind of vehicle we're going to buy for our forces. The size of the game really can't overtake the defense management in terms of what kind of vehicle we're going to buy for our soldiers. What kind of defence policy and what kind of defence will we get if each case – large or small – is brought before the Storting? It can be a good delivery gel in the policy to have some ice in the stomach when TV 2 or the evening post is ringing. The government and the majority of the population have a long-term and consistent defence policy, based on the Defence’s long-term plan for the period 2009–2012 adopted by the Stortinget. Next year, too, we will have a significant effort in Afghanistan. It is the Storting that decides that we should participate in Afghanistan, as it has been in other international operations. Then it is also Stortingen's responsibility that we take care of the people we send out, in a good way. They must be taken care of before they are sent to foreign operations, they must be carried out by sea during their stay abroad, and they must also be taken care of after they have returned from foreign service. Many have been busy reporting back in the last few months, when there has been a focus on the situation of our veterans. A lot of people, and most of them, report that the international service was a positive experience, and in retrospect you see it as a enrichment. But some people are sadly having problems after they get home. They must be properly cared for, and Stortinget has a responsibility for it. It's not hard to admit that over a decade, too little has been done to take care of the veterans. Norway has had many out in international operations, from the German Brigade just after World War II and now until our engagement in Afghanistan. Fortunately, a lot has happened to the veterans' policy in recent years, but we're not in the target, we have to do even more. The size had previously dealt with the so-called vet report, where the government was clearly informed that the Stortinget was satisfied with the work that had been done, but at the same time impatiently and asked the government to continue working. And so does the government, and next spring, on Veteran Day, May 8, there will be an action plan on these matters as proof that we have even more that needs to be done to ensure our veterans in a solid and good way. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the case of the framework area 8 of the adjustment, the government parties will vote against XI, XII and XIII later today. As is evident to those who read the setting a little more carefully, it is the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that support these proposals for decisions. The three parties have a majority in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, and so the vote looks like it does, but we're going to vote against XI, XII and XIII. Let me then finally comment on proposal No. 17, presented today by the Advancement Party. We're going to vote against that proposal, not because we're essentially against what's there. Much of what appears in the proposal from the Progress Party probably has a lot to do, but as I just explained, the government is working with its own action plan as a follow-up to the vet report adopted by the Stortinget. What goes on research and living conditions surveys for those who have been in foreign assignments is a natural part of that work. So our reason for not going for that proposal today is simply that it's taken care of in the work that the government is doing, a lot of departments are involved in that work. So it has been taken care of, and it will be presented in the action plan that comes up on February 8th.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e995	Some people in the debate have tried to make a difference between spending a lot of money in an area and having good quality in an area. I venture the claim that aid is not the least different from areas such as road construction, school, health or any other community area. In all other areas, if you have a good policy, you usually get more if you spend more money. But more money cannot replace having a right policy. It's a little strange when the opposition parties in this one area think that there is no more to be done here if you have more money, while in all other areas that are close to your heart, they require more money and think that then you automatically get more done. The truth is, good politics is the most important thing, but if you have it at the bottom, you'll almost always get more done with more money. This government has taken important steps to make assistance more performance-based and less intention-based. The forest programme is a purely results-based programme. Much of what happens in the area of health is also results-based. I think we should go in a direction where we are going to measure the results of assistance and create systems where developing countries are paid according to produced results, not just according to good intentions. So it's a little strange in the debate that the opposition, especially the Progress Party, seems to be offended that we're discussing their policy. If you're proud of your policy, I guess it's good that you discuss it. The reason why we do that is that as long as the Progress Party was just a party that put on the sideline and criticized, it could be useful – a useful incentive for us others to get better. However, at the moment this may be Norway’s policy, it is quite different. When the Progress Party will cut 8 billion. kr in the aid and the Right will cut 800 million. kr, we have to assume that a compromise between the two parties would lie about in the middle. So let's assume a 4 billion cut. Norwegian aid as a compromise between the two parties should they come to government power. It is a very serious attack on Norway's international reputation. The Americans – I mention the United States because the Advance Party and the Right are so concerned about it – would then think that Norway, as they have long said, is boxing over its weight class because we are doing so much in terms of climate, health, education and peacekeeping, suddenly boxing under our weight class. Let me mention some examples from today's budget on how the Progress Party will create another Norway. First of all, they want to create a Norway that does not stand by its promises. The Prime Minister has promised a forest conservation for 15 billion. kr. We have entered into binding agreements with Brazil. To put it very, very friendly, it is highly uncertain whether we can stand by our agreements with Brazil with the Progress Party's policy. It is absolutely certain that we cannot stand by the promises the Prime Minister in the United Nations has solemnly given in Bali. And that's something completely different. This government is under the international commitments undertaken by the Bondevik Government on behalf of Norway. A country that does not comply with its obligations loses international reputation and reputation. The budget will not allow for a big bet on Haiti, which represents the great natural disaster this year, and which lit a heart fire, to say the like, in the Norwegian population to help. Why on earth shouldn't we help in such a situation? That is humanitarian Norway at its best. The budget will not allow for the peace effort that Norway is making in the Middle East – the Minister for Foreign Affairs was in on it – and in Sudan. These peace efforts are impossible without money, and the first ones that will come running to us if a new, bourgeois government were to wind them up would be all our closest allies, who would say no, no, no, no! Please keep doing this, because this is very useful for the world and for us! Rather, take as an example the Swedish bourgeois government, which maintains 1 pst. in assistance. Why should a Norwegian bourgeois government depart completely from a Swedish bourgeois government? Or, as an example, Cameron, who, in a very needed budgetary situation in the United Kingdom, held two areas sacred: aid and health. It provides respect, even though we may disagree with many of the cuts made. Let me finally say that the opposition in a series of contexts, at the latest in today's newspapers, has addressed a greater concentration in aid. It's in itself a view I share, but let's also think about the consequences of it. There are two serious consequences of this. One is that it will affect voluntary Norway. For the vast majority of the small, scattered efforts we have, a mission organisation or a voluntary organisation has one important point effort in an area where Norway otherwise does not do much. The second thing that will happen is the integration of foreign and development policy that Jonas Gahr Støre and I have stood for, where we see development policy as a foreign policy tool and therefore have done many useful things. Let me give you an example: we've helped many African countries expand their continental shelf. We do nothing else in these countries, but it has brought in six or seven new countries as Norwegian aid countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1023	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1026	Governments draw this with an international reputation very far. Many of us are traveling. We also meet people out there looking at Norway, and we often encounter a despair and questions about why we protect our borders and our trade as we do, and why we can't spend any more of the money we invest on stock exchanges around the world, targeted at measures in the poorest countries – one of what we concretely propose. So balancing this out and saying that all that the red-green government is doing is promoting Norwegian interests outside, and everyone is looking at us with good thoughts, it's turning this picture around and simplifying it very much. The fact that you get something more sceptical at certain UN meetings, I can accept that, but we're willing to take that risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1031	The times that Norway has really done something that matters to the world are when, as in the rainforest initiative, we have combined political leadership with money and politics. There's no contradiction between this and what Høglund is after. I fully agree that Norway should be better placed to trade with developing countries. But there's no reason not to do the other even if we're going to do more on the deal. We should be better off getting more business investment in developing countries. With all due respect, it's the red-green government with a declared socialist as a development minister who has really started taking business into Norwegian aid. We have even often received approval from the Progress Party for this. Last week I opened Telenor and Grameenphone's new headquarters in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Telenor has been subjected to a lot of criticism, but I have defended them, precisely because I believe that this type of investment is at least as useful as assistance. I just don't see any difference between business should do more, and we're going to provide help at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1038	I notice that the Minister for Assistance is concerned that the United States and the civil government in Sweden are going to be disappointed by what we do if the Right and the Advance Party are going to implement changes in Norway's aid policy. I get comfort from the Council of State that if he looks after these four billion, Norway will still be completely at the top of the world in terms of assistance. We still want an aid rate of 0.86 of GNI. But maybe there's a little too much money on the aid budget, because it seems like there's not enough capacity to follow up all the projects and see where it's going to be of all the money. That hundreds of millions of aid dollars are going to be gone in Bangladesh is one thing. Another thing is that when microloans make young Asian girls into debt slaves, the aid money works against its purpose. Then is my question about Bangladesh: How will the government avoid such calamities that have just been revealed, and as we have seen at Focus, NRK as late as Tuesday this week?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1047	Let me get a hold of this. I've always believed that the Progress Party was among the leading microcredit supporters, because it's just a commercial, nutrition-based form of assistance trying to solve the fundamental problem: how can you give loans to people who are not creditworthy? They have so far been victims of ager sharks that have huge interest rates. Also within microcredit there is a significant interest rate level, and the reason is very simple: it costs money to borrow 100 kroner. I saw in Pakistan last week people who sent 20 and 40 kroner back to their brother or their wife in the countryside. I guess Myhre didn't send that kind of money to his family, they would probably think it was an insult. But it's expensive to do this. I now want to call the Norwegian microcredit organisations to a meeting where we will look at this and make sure that you do not push microcredit on people who either do not fully understand it or who are unable to pay it. But I believe that microcredit is a useful, nutrient-oriented form of assistance, and that's something that the Progress Party has previously been eager to support, until now, until a critical program comes, and then you run from it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1057	We've been trailers of microcredit, and we're still. But we see that over a number of years it has been practiced in a way that has made bad for many, many poor young girls and women, among others. Bangladesh What worries us is that the transparency of businesses is poor. So we have little opportunity to follow up on what is happening in Norwegian development policy, and so we have little more to build our experience on than what comes out in the press. To further clarify my previous question, how long has this method of microloans been used as it is today? How long should this take before the Council of State puts an end to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1062	The fundamental way to reduce the level of interest rates on microcredit loans, if any, is to make it more aid-funded. So, the more we support microcredit loans with assistance, the lower it is possible to keep interest rates. One of the key microcredit points has just been that it should be a basic commercial business-based banking activity, yet it should still be able to provide loans to poor people. I have always believed that it was something that the Progress Party really thought was healthy, good and correct. Then you have to be careful, every time there is any criticism here, to throw the child out with the bath water, and instead have as a starting point, like the government, that the microcredit is healthy, sensible and correct. But there can be people who practice it in an unfavorable way, just like in any other banking business. There may be people who get into an unfair debt trap, and then we have to look at how we remove the negative aspects of a positive business – and that's not different from the attitude to, for example, the negative aspects of a positive business. banking activities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1067	First, I just want to say that I think it's very hypothetical from the Council of State to stand here and claim or suggest that if the Right Party and the Advance Party come into government, then the aid area will get a cut of 4 billion. kr. Right is a responsible party, we've been in government before, we've taken our responsibility, and we're going to do that if we get the opportunity again. So to another question. This applies to the issue of aid, where the Council of State recently stated: ‘We must help to strengthen the capacity and power of poor countries to benefit from the benefits of globalisation [[...]] Can the Council of State explain how the quota ceiling proposed by the Government on the importation of Namibian lambs contributes to enabling Namibia to benefit from the good aspects of globalisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1079	Let me first say something about the 4 billion. kr. I realize that this is a calculation example, but for the moment, the Progress Party and the Right are about two equal parties, and I assume that the government negotiations between the Advance Party and the Right are not based on the Right getting it 100 pst. as they will, and that the Progress Party in these negotiations will not get anything. In that case, it is quite an interesting information for the Progress Party. It must be assumed that at least there will not be a valid right-wing policy alone. In other words, with a compromise between the Right and the Advance Party, there must be a drastic and substantial reduction in Norwegian aid. This brings the Norwegian bourgeois government into complete disrepute, for example. the Swedish bourgeois government, which has considered it important to maintain the assistance. And under no circumstances are we going to get away from that in this calculation, whatever that might be. As regards the quota ceiling, there is a difficult balance between having a Norwegian agricultural policy that ensures settlement throughout Norway and being conducive to development. I fully agree that the more we can deal with developing countries on good terms, the better.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1086	State Council Solheim knows very well what has been the conditions of the aid agencies in the years in which the Right has been in government. There has been a steady, healthy and good growth in these years. That is why it is a little surprising – as the representative of Afghan Rafiq pointed out – that Solheim uses this well-known debate technique and argues against a proposal that has not been promoted, drawing some pictures of its consequences on the basis of a proposal that has not been promoted and that will never be promoted either. But I'm pretty sure this is being done very deliberately. When we talk about concentration from the Right, we are on safe ground and in line with professional reports such as Aid and other assistance experts. We are at least in line with the Norwegian National Audit Office. It is suggested that this is at the expense of the voluntary sector, but I also assume that Solheim is well aware of our basic position in terms of confidence that the best results are obtained from the voluntary sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1091	I fully recognise that there are shared opinions on the issue of concentration, and that there are professionals who think we should have more of it – there is no doubt about it. I will go so far as to say that there are also many good arguments for an increased concentration of Norwegian aid, but I also have to point out what it will lead to in practice. What it will actually lead to is cut, because we have to cut the aid to the countries to which we give the least, I assume. We're not going to cut off aid to Afghanistan and Sudan, I guess, and then for all practical purposes it means cutting off projects run by a series of small Norwegian NGOs – many of them are Christian organisations, and I dare to say that the Christian People's Party will protest very intensely, but I too – i.e. to projects in countries where we don't do anything else. And we have to cut down on initiatives like the Norwegian continental shelf initiative, where we have helped African countries in an area where we have a unique competence, by expanding their continental shelf beyond 200 nautical miles. It is very successful, and they appreciate it very much, but it has brought in countries like Guinea Bissau, Guinea Conakry, Sâo Tomé and Príncipe, Gambia and Senegal as Norwegian aid countries. We're not doing anything else there, but we've helped them at this one point.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1096	The Council of State is making it appear that we are going to be providing assistance for the sake of Norwegian non-governmental organisations, and I hope that is not the intention, but rather that we are going to get results in the countries to which we are going. You have to listen to self-crust because it comes from the heart. As usual, the councils are very modest on behalf of the government. It is obvious that there is a greater distance between the red-green parties in the security and foreign policy than there is between the opposition parties. When the red-green parties have managed to agree on a policy that Norway can have in mind, I am absolutely sure that the opposition parties will succeed. Let me repeat the question from the representative Rafiq, to whom the Council of State did not respond: ‘Can the Council of State explain how the quota ceiling proposed by the Government on imports of Namibian lambs contributes to enabling Namibia to benefit from the good aspects of globalisation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1110	I answered that question by saying that this is the kind of balance that Norway is constantly making between having an agricultural policy that aims to settle throughout Norway and having mechanisms that promote the interests of the developing world. What we are particularly afraid of are concessions to developing countries which, in reality, provide openings for other parts of the world that can easily sell agricultural products to Norway. It's a balance that the Right to the Full did when they even put in government. With regard to the claim that there should be a great deal of disagreement between the red-green parties, I would venture to make the claim that the Foreign Minister and I have cooperated very much more closely on this than what was done under the previous government. I do not disclose any state secret when I say that it was not the Right who was the driver of the high development budgets during the Bondevik government. It was a situation where the Right was in alliance with the Christian People's Party. What we're talking about now is a situation where the Right can come into alliance with the Advance Party. It's something completely different.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1117	They speak as follows, with a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1120	This year I was the one who lost, so I only got three minutes, but the three minutes I'm going to spend on the UN, on the one hand on the situation in the United Nations and on the other on the many and big challenges that it looks like we're meeting in the future UN. It may seem as though it is an impossible task to streamline and reform the UN. It looks almost even more difficult that the UN will achieve the goals they have set, achieve the necessary transparency, and, perhaps most importantly, fight corruption. For the Progress Party, this is central. We cannot understand why Norway does not impose stricter requirements on the various UN organisations when one of the most important contributors to the organisation. One important factor where Norway now has a unique chance of making a difference is in the Human Rights Council. Here Norway has a place without it being said that we get a lot of focus on what's going on there. For example, with regard to the right of homosexuals to special protection, 79 countries went in to change the wording, 17 countries voted blank, 70 countries opposed, and 26 countries were absent. It was basically the West towards the rest. This scares me. Countries with a very dubious view of human rights, democracy and freedom of religion have had such a strong influence in the UN and are obviously aware of exploiting that situation. What may have surprised me most in this matter was that Russia, which is also sitting in the Council of Europe, voted in favour of a change. It's alarming. This we will follow up on other arenas. When, in addition, Saudi Arabia has a place on the UN Women's Panel, we can imagine that they have also seized many of the other countries here. Women's right to determine their own body, their own sexuality and health can quickly disappear if religions take over in this panel. I sincerely hope that Norway will join us, because if the United Nations is to have any credibility again, it must be clear about human rights and fight for them and not go backwards into the future. I have some speaking time left, so I would like to say a few words about the UN reform – a reform we have heard about for years, and we have not seen any results from it. Take, for example: The UN Women's Panel: It was intended to bring together the different women's organisations in one organisation. And what happened? Well, you got the new women's panel, which is great, but it came in addition to the others because there was no one willing to let go of their heart children. These are not reforms; it's simply the construction of a mastodon of an organization to a monster mastodon. The Progress Party is concerned about developments in the UN. If there is now a process of rocking by the Western values, then I'm not sure that the United Nations will survive in the long run.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1135	I would like to pay a visit to the representative, Woldseth. I listened with interest to her contribution now, and I also listened to the contribution she made in the financial debate, where she explained that the reason why the Progress Party cuts the aid is that they believe in the free market and would rather ‘give people in developing countries an opportunity to improve their lives and improve their quality of life’. What's interesting then is the example that the representative then used. She said, ‘Look to China.’ It's strange that the Progress Party wants you to learn from what someone would call a communist, totalitarian and non-democratic regime. I also checked with the Human Development Index as among others. says something about quality of life. There's China in 89th place, and there's only 19 places behind the Islamic Republic of Iran. Should we now assume that the representative Woldseth also believes that one should look at Ahmadinejad in order to learn about quality of life? It would have been good to get a clarification of that. Our government has a strong commitment to the work of UN Millennium Development Goals 4 and 5. Through Norwegian efforts, we have achieved more concrete results. We have contributed to the vaccination of 25 million children worldwide. In India, more than 10 million women can go to clinics to give birth, compared with 2005. In order to achieve these kinds of results, targeted efforts are needed for a longer period of time. It is then necessary to be critical of the priorities and to make clear demands on the partners. That is our aid policy. As others have pointed out, the civil parties are making significant cuts in aid, and the Progress Party stands out to be completely sidelined by all the political consensus in the aid debate, even if party political differences are taken into account. They're cutting amazing $8 billion. kr. Like the representative Rafiq, I'm concerned with the results of the use of money and the cuts, and not just the amounts. To compensate for the cuts of money from private, voluntary donors, as highlighted by the Progress Party in some contexts as appropriate, a rather unworthy advertising campaign would be launched between humanitarian organisations to secure money for important development work. And with an ad hoc collection of money, long-term aid work will almost be impossible. But it is not the only thing that it is difficult to get hold of the Progress Party's policy in this area. Norway is now taking the lead in the fight against tax havens. But the Progress Party believes that tax havens are good because they allegedly promote tax competition. Does not the Progress Party see that tax havens brave poor countries for amounts many times the total international aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1161	It was with great interest that I read this statement, because on page 28 a unanimous committee has come with one, I would say, glittering remark about Nordic cooperation. The interesting thing about this comment, too, is that an overall committee is behind a proposal in a budgetary position, and I dare say that I don't think it is in any particular budgetary position this year. That is why it is a very clear work order for Minister of Foreign Affairs Støre to put considerable pressure on the organisation of the Nordic Council of Ministers, with a view to simplifying, streamlining and focusing work. Therefore, I could imagine that the Foreign Minister in this Chamber could give some indication of how he has intended to follow up the clear proposal that a unanimous increase today, with great probability, will adopt. I also believe that there is broad consensus among the parliamentarians involved in Nordic cooperation that today's situation, today's organisation, is not working well enough, because in Nordic cooperation the power of the Council of Ministers and not of the parliamentarians, as we are accustomed to from our national parliaments. Therefore, the decisions and proposals adopted by the Nordic Council of Ministers are not always followed up by the Council of Ministers. After five years in the Nordic Council, my impression is that the Council of Ministers is helping to delay Nordic cooperation and contribute to red tape, as this comment also shows. I would also like to say that I believe that the Council of Ministers lacks respect for the parliamentary work. It is difficult for ministers to meet committees in the Nordic Council, and when Parliamentarians make clear decisions, they are largely told that this is something we are working on, anyway. There are also often little clear progress plans in order to achieve what the Nordic politicians adopt. But when the Committee now adopts this proposal, there is one thing that is also important, and it is that politicians, parliamentarians, have to take power back. It doesn't just keep with this remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1170	I feel like I belong to a kind of ‘silent majority’ – we who are satisfied with a lot of what is happening in foreign and defence policy, but who may not take the word so often to emphasize it. Therefore, I would like to take the opportunity to conclude that although Norway has been blessed with many strong foreign ministers, I think there are few of those who have participated in as many historical decisions as the current one: the sharing line agreement, the class weapon convention, 1 pst. by GNI for assistance, Norwegian staff and training officers out of Iraq. Norway is now actively working to ensure the peace process in Sudan. I'm glad. Peace and stability are critically important both for individuals and for development in the region. I am pleased that the government parties and the Christian People's Party agree to strengthen the work of vaccinating the world's children. Vaccines are an effective tool to contribute to development and to save lives. The GAVI vaccine alliance has helped to save five million lives, and Norway has contributed more than one-tenth of the funding. Norway has hardly ever had a budget line that has meant more to more people. In the future, it is important to mobilise new donors and to agree on the financing of the new vaccines against pneumonia and diarrhoea – vaccines that can save millions of new people in developing countries. I have heard some say that aid does not work, because Norway has contributed money for many decades, and still there is poverty in the world. It's a reasoning I never hear in other areas. I have never heard anyone say that now we have had hospital budgets for so long, and still health Norway is not perfect, so we should stop giving money to hospitals. I've never heard anyone say that now we've built bridges and tunnels for centuries, and we still have a lot of bad roads, so we should stop giving money to road investments. Aid fights poverty and saves lives! Then it is clear that we must seek to manage the money in such a way that the assistance works as best as possible, in the same way that we need to manage the resources as wisely as possible in other areas as well. In the future, it will be very important to establish a trade agreement that will be a step in the right direction for growth in developing countries. China's violent growth can in the long run lift the world's most populous country out of poverty. Trade is a powerful tool for value creation, and a peaceful form of inter-country interaction. But there is no contradiction between trade and aid. Countries have different trading assumptions, because natural resources are unevenly distributed. Assistance also contributes to better opportunities for those who are poor in oil, gas, minerals, timber, waterfalls, fresh water and coastline.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1181	The comparison between aid and the health budget and the transport budget seems to me to have been sought. You can, for example: compare countries that have received assistance for 40–50 years and countries that have not been in such a situation. You can also meet people from different countries who say, "Now that's enough, we don't want to be part of the aid spiral." We also have countries which have declared at government level that they do not want assistance. So I can't quite see that comparison. So to a line change I had with the Foreign Minister about whether the red-green priorities are responsible and ours are irresponsible. Of course, I have great respect for the fact that employees in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be taken seriously, but this also applies to employees in all other sectors, both public and private. The cuts and re-priorities that the government has put in place from one year to another have had and will have an impact on people's lives. So that comparison I don't mean to hold. So to cuttism. The government has been able to rule since 2005 – and before there was a government where the Christian People's Party had great influence on this chapter – and brought the aid up to a very high level. We're looking, through our alternative budget, to show you exactly an alternative. Then you compare, of course, and you have to do that, but in the international context and in the Norwegian context, our alternative budget is very good, I think. So State Council Solheim speaks positively about several of our proposals and ideas, at least I see it this way. Nevertheless, many of the proposals we make year after year are little taken care of and little followed up. I respect to the extent that the political majority decides, but we do not believe that what I perceive as being agreed by the Solheim Government Council. With regard to tax havens: it is an important debate, but an important debate is also about land on our own continent, which is almost our close ally, which is laying its hand on dictators, and which allows them to bring large millions of dollars out of their country and establish themselves with them, without demanding them and asking, where did this money come from? This is happening on our own continent. It is a challenge that I record that a certain presidential candidate in a country a little south of us wants to address. This is a debate that I would like to welcome. It's not just about the so-called tax havens, it's about land in our own neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1194	Political differences become great when we discuss aid policy. Here in the hall there are parties who want to cut off the aid to the poorest and give more to some of the world's richest people. It is quite clear that aid measures will have consequences. We are now witnessing a democratic development in, among other things. Latin America. Of course, everything is not perfect, not all countries in Latin America are in the finish line. It is therefore important that Norway contributes to the building of strong institutions, so that developments continue in a democratic direction. When popular movements – such as trade union movement - indigenous activists and women in more and more countries are now part of power, it is one of the success factors for long-term development. For me, therefore, it seems a little pointless that Norway should cut off all aid to Latin America, as proposed by the Right in its alternative state budget. If we really want development in the world, it is wise to be involved and contribute in those countries that are developing rapidly. And it makes sense to be involved and contribute to the development of the continent that has the world's greatest differences between the poor and the rich. In Latin America, which has enormous natural resources, Norway has a unique opportunity to contribute to the knowledge of how those resources can benefit the entire population. I'm glad the government will continue its efforts in Latin America. And then we'd rather tolerate criticism from the right, which is more critical of the countries that are now moving in the right direction than what you might have been to the brutal military dictatorships of the right in the 1990s. I am also pleased that Norway is continuing its efforts to find a peaceful solution to the conflict in the Middle East. Norwegian aid includes: to state building on the Palestinian side – to improve security and to combat corruption. Building a stable state on the Palestinian side we depend entirely on getting a two-state solution in the Middle East. I myself have been both in Gaza and in the West Bank and have seen how dependent the Palestinians are on the support of the international community, both political support and aid in the form of aid. They depend on support to rebuild what has been repeatedly destroyed by Israel, and they depend on support to provide education for children and young people. It helps to give hope to a people who have lived under occupation for over 60 years. For me, it will be an enormous paradox when the right-hand side of every asylum debate in this Chamber is concerned with getting fewer asylum seekers and refugees to Norway. There are hardly any limits to what you are willing to do. But when it comes to one of the measures that actually work in the long term, namely aid for development, peace and democracy, yes, the same parties are drastically cutting off the savings knife.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1209	Most countries that have evolved or are developing, such as the UnitedKingdom and the United Kingdom. China, has done or does it without what we can call traditional u-help. But there's no evidence that help doesn't work. The debate on the strong cut in the aid budget of the Progress Party is a bit shattering. They have no faith that this assistance works. At the same time, they have very strong wordings that they will contribute to the economic and social development of the part of the world that has not yet evolved – we do well to do so. And you want to use other tools than what we can call traditional aid: investment, trade, roads, etc. There is an interesting debate, and no one rejects the fact that it is also part of what is needed to develop. But what is a bit of a shame is that the Progress Party does not develop that part of the policy into the budget. Maybe they could work on that for next year. Because you're using the same channels as the majority, you're just reducing the appropriations by 30 pst. There will not necessarily be investments in roads or trading facilities of the money going through the UN system, even if it is 30 pst. less than the majority. Then you have to spend the entire aid work. It might be interesting to see how you're going to do it. So the realities behind the section of the Progress Party are a desire to make room for great tax cuts and possibly additions to the Defence and other good purposes. I think you should be open about that. So to the debate on the concentration of aid. It is also an interesting debate, but it needs to be clarified. Counting the number of countries makes little sense, as others have pointed out – to take Right To Play as an example, an organisation that I think most people will think will do a good job, and that we should support. They're inside 20 countries. I haven't mentioned exactly, but maybe 15 of those countries are countries where Norway has no other money in aid. So by cutting $4 million. To Right To Play, 15 countries will be gone. But does our assistance get better for that reason? So finally just a little bit about efficiency, because Ivar Kristiansen didn't count the efficiency gain that the defense is supposed to have into the funds they're now getting for high priority tasks. I think that's weird. For it cannot be that the defence should be protected for efficiency, as all other institutions in society must go through. In particular, I find it strange to hear from the Right Party and possibly the Advance Party, which will convert and renew Norway over a low shoe. It must also apply to the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1222	The defense is important. Norway is a small country in the world, but we have great interests to monitor. We also have ambitions to play a role in the world. It is through the Defense this must be realized and the ambitions made credible. There are two reasons why I wanted to make a brief contribution to the debate. This applies to HV and veterans. When we look at the Army, the bet made in Hedmark is very important to my home country – of course – and it creates a lot of welcome activity. The move of the HV staff to the Terningmoen was launched with fire and bram by the bench colleague Schlagsvold Vedum in local media earlier this fall. That move is supported by the Right, but it is remarkable to note that the Ministry is unable to explain the costs of the move. In the light of the debate we have had on the situation in HV, it becomes strange. It doesn't help to move the HV bar if the activity that HV has to do is messed up and maybe dropped when the move is realised. Right wants to grant 75 million. kr more than that in the government budget. In the period 2009–2011, we wanted a total of 300 million. kr more to HV. HV is important, but when the exercise activity is at least, and the economy is in trouble, it is very difficult to motivate the personnel. It could be HV's path if the government does not listen to the signals and follow the recommendations of the Right in our alternative budget. So a turn around the veterans. Many have commented on them. In my home country, we also have Bæria, on Kongswinger. It's a place I've visited several times, an amazing place that can help many veterans find back to a good everyday life after being on a mission outside. Bæria is important and should play a central role in the policy of the veterans. You can actually view this as an appeal and a call from a local representative from Hedmark. So a little comment to the representative Gustavsen, as I heard earlier today. She said that productivity in Norway is increasing. That's probably the opposite of what we have as a challenge. It is quite clear from the state budget. Now I don't know about the productivity of the Defense – that's probably what Gustavsen thought, I shouldn't go into – but I think it's important that you actually look at productivity in general, and there we have a challenge, especially after 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1235	I took the floor to make a few extra comments based on some of what has been going on in the debate. I will not move into a new financial debate with the representative Gundersen. There is no doubt that we have productivity challenges related to competition with the rest of the world, but statistics show that productivity, at least in large parts of business, is increasing, and it needs to increase, because we are a high-cost country. But we can take that debate later. I took the word because I want to make some points. Firstly, the representative Morten Höglund did not respond to my challenge. I'm just recording that it's probably because it's too painful to answer for a representative who has a burning commitment to this part of the world. The right-wing representatives Rafiq and Kristiansen tried in line with Erik Solheim to doubt the Right's position on the 1st objective of the aid policy. I would like to draw up a quote from the High Representative for Aid Policy, Gitmark, who is not here today. He said at Hilstandscurrentt.no on 27 August 2009: ‘We do not want to maintain the link between one per cent of gross national income and the aid budget.’ If the right-wing representatives in this Chamber do not have confidence in the Minister for Development, they may have greater confidence in their own main figures in aid matters. And then I want to end with one last point. In the change of lines between the representatives Myrli and Kristiansen, there was talk of the Right's willingness to finance the adopted structure for which they had gone into the long-term plan. Then the representative, Kristiansen, used 2.5 billion as a figure related to what it would cost – at least I realized it was like this – to have the Right Structure in the Budget. Then it's a little strange to record that the right is increasing the budget by 1 pst. or 600 million. kr – yes, I’ll accept it – but there’s a pretty big gap between what was then Right’s ambitions in defence policy, of 2.5 billion. kr extra, and what the right is willing to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1253	Let me first comment on what was said here from the vote, where a joint committee is in favour of the ‘Bigness asks the government to consider taking the initiative of a review of the organisation of the Nordic Council of Ministers with a view to simplifying, streamlining and focusing its work’. This is a clear signal, and I think that is the government's attitude all the time. I would like to remind you that in 2005, the Nordic Council of Ministers had a review of the way in which the number of Councils of Ministers was reduced from 18 to 11. Now it is actually a proposal to increase the number of Councils of Ministers, because they want their own for foreign and defence policy. We must take that as a discussion with colleagues. For my part, I have realized that the foreign ministers' dialogue with the Bureau has made us a very good partner in the Nordic Council. Norway has the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2012, but we will not wait until then to address the points mentioned here. Whether the abolition of official committees is the way to get more effective Councils of Ministers, we will see. We'll have to discuss it with the other Nordic countries. There's got to be another consensus for you to go that way. Then some things have come up that I will briefly comment on. The representative Woldseth was concerned with the vote in the Human Rights Council. For me, it's just an illustration of the importance that we're there, and that we're not leaving those arenas to states that the representative mentioned, who are voting for things we're against. She said the UN won't survive if the Western values are weakened. I believe that many of those values are universal values that all states have to follow. It is important to us that we try to ensure that many countries are behind them, both in text and in consequence. We're going to work on that. Then, finally, to the representative, Mr Høglund, on budgets going up and down. Yes, parties and governments must defend and argue for that. If we have put a strong emphasis on labour market measures at a time when unemployment has increased, it is natural that something will be cut off if unemployment falls, for example. But I just allowed myself to say – and I'm not going to add any more adjectives now – that last year the Progress Party cut 160 million. kr on the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget in what we call the 02 area, i.e. in traditional foreign policy. The following year, they're increasing by $12 million. kr. They don't increase by $12 million. kr from the cut that they have taken. Then they're in the money again, so there's an increase in the level that we now have. I just notice that running a large budget in that way doesn't mean I'm responsible, and it will have very, very big consequences for what Norway will look like in our international presence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1262	At the end of the debate, let me take a look a little away from our own domestic budget wrench and move on to one of the countries that are in the most critical phase right now. It's Sudan, which is also one of our three largest aid recipients. As Stortinget well knows, there will be a referendum in South Sudan on 9 January on the release of South Sudan. Everything suggests that the outcome of such a referendum will be a clear majority for liberation. It will happen at a time when the basic assumptions for how a release is to be effected have not been clarified. It's very unlikely now that you've clarified the borderline, that you've clarified how to divide the oil between the north and the south, that you've clarified how to divide the debt burden, that you've solved Abiey, which is a very critical question, or that you've clarified the issues of citizenship for the many from the south who want to stay in the north, and they're slightly fewer, but a significant number of people, from the north who want to stay in the south. So you get a decision on a ransom. But the situation for all of this is unclear. It's obviously a very dangerous and very difficult situation. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I are strongly committed to trying to help find solutions to it. The area in which Norway plays the major role is our oil competence, and we have provided all the best Norwegian oil competence to find a way to share oil revenue. Almost all the oil – or the largest quantity of oil – is in the south. This oil can only be brought out through the north, so here it's not about one that can win, and the other that can lose. Either both parties win, or both parties lose. And we're making suggestions for the solution to that. So I think we have to admit that President al-Bashir in Khartoum, of which we have different opinions, is in a difficult situation. There are very few examples in the history of the world that a country has given away a quarter of the population, one third of the territory, two thirds or more of the oil revenues and much more, without it being difficult for leadership. Sewing systems and packages that allow North Sudan to accept that South Sudan is going, peacefully, is a formidable challenge, and Norway has agreed to, for example: to organise conferences or take other steps that may help to ensure that such a process is successful. When I bring this up, it's because a successful outcome in Sudan will have a fundamental impact on our security as well. Of course, this will have a tremendous impact on the population of Sudan, but there are nine neighbouring countries that can be drawn into it. Should the worst happen in Sudan, which will be going back to full war, I just want to remind you of what Prime Minister Meles Zenawi in Ethiopia said when I met him. It was that a full war in Sudan will make Somalia seem like a kindergarten – by comparison. So the tension between success and failure in this area is formidable, and it's an area where Norway contributes, but where we could never have contributed if we hadn't done a great deal of assistance in Sudan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1275	You can manipulate with words. You can cut and paste and put words in other people's mouth that weren't intended, and I'll label it as on the border of irreparable. So now I've made my contribution from the finance debate here, and I want to say what I was actually saying, because I don't think this can hang in the air when it comes to China and look to China. Yes, I said look to China, but it was in connection with what I said: ‘We have faith in free, open markets, and we also have faith in the dynamic effects that can lift billions out of poverty. Look at China.’ Somewhere else in my post I talked about changes and quality of life: ‘We want a change from what does not work to what can actually give people in developing countries an opportunity to improve their lives and improve their quality of life.’ I hope, if Tajik's representative for the rest of the time is going to quote me, that she doesn't cut and glue, because then we can get it exactly the way we want it. We can all do that, with all the lyrics. To the representative Svein Roald Hansen, who said we didn't have politics in our budget, but that we just cut where we cut: that's not the case. Let's add up. Among other things, we make: new business development items. Let's add up to 215 million. kr to just do what we want, to give people in developing countries the opportunity to create their own jobs and make their lives better. If the representative Hansen had read my contribution in the financial debate – and not only the representative Tajik – he could also see that there we were talking about the big lines and the policy that the Progress Party actually has in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1292	State Council Solheim's comments on Sudan were just thought-provoking – not primarily because of the conclusion, but because he seriously asserted that if the aid budget of the Progress Party was adopted, there would be full war in Sudan. I honestly think there's a little bit on the edge. I just want to illustrate with a few figures: the aid budget that the Minister of Aid himself handled in 2008 was 22 billion. kr. The aid budget he now refers to as what will be the compromise between the Right and the Advance Party is of 23 billion. kr. Thus, the 2011 aid and development budget of the Progress Party is slightly larger than the corresponding one in 2005. That is the scandalous factor in the draft budget of the Progress Party. But the most central part of the Advance Party's policy must be that we cannot continue to give u-help indefinitely. So what kind of goal is that? Those who claim it must have zero faith in their own policies. The prerequisite for providing u-help is to provide help for self-help, and the need for unhelp gradually diminishes. Some other measure of the u-help I can't reasonably understand can be any point. The leader of Tanzania's largest opposition party stated earlier this year that if he was elected, he would make Tanzania unassisted in two years. It's not very realistic, maybe, but it gives a picture of what kind of wishes are here. President Paul Kagame in neighboring Rwanda is in the same mind. They will free themselves from the economic dependence on the Western world, and I understand that. Thus, the aid activity of Norway and other Western countries today, especially in Africa, does not work in the direction of it. It seems opposite to the local desire for what is the goal here in the world, to gain political independence, which they largely gained in the 1960s, most countries in Africa, is zero as long as they cannot also gain an economic independence, an economic independence, an ability to sort out their own affairs even without having to have Solheim on a visit all the time! That is why we are in favour of the aid budget we have, and the policy we put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1302	Attack on the Right because we cut something in the aid, is very predictable, but only confirms our claim that the Norwegian aid policy debate is just about how much money you should give, and not what the money goes to. Right wants the most development, not the most assistance possible. That is why we have made proposals to increase the transparency of assistance, so that it is easier to assess which assistance works and which should be improved. Let me tell you that the Right Aid Budget is about 0.98 pst. by GNI, which is higher than in the budgets of all the Bondevik II Government. It is also far beyond the UN target of 0.7 pst. At the heart of our aid policy is that policy becomes more effective and better quality assured when it concentrates thematically and geographically. Today, Norway provides assistance to at least 114 countries, according to Norad’s figures, and is criticised in recent reports for having too fragmented a policy. Among other things, Norwegian-funded projects are very small in size, which means that we have more projects to manage than other major donors. That is why the Right wants to cut bilateral aid to Asia and remove it in Latin America. It is not because there is no poverty there, but it is because our efforts should be concentrated and specialized. Sub-Saharan Africa has both the poorest countries and those countries that have generally the longest remaining to achieve the UN’s Millennium Development Goals. Therefore, the Right believes that it is natural to give priority to bilateral aid to Africa. I hope that we will go ahead and ensure that Africa also reaches the UN's Millennium Goal. I hope that the representative of the Labour Party, Håheim, has also received an answer to his criticism from the Right that we are cutting in the aid to Latin America.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1311	Just a few comments at the end of the debate – first about motivation, as the State Council Faremo was about. So when it comes to cutting one of two return trips for employees, this is an amount of between 20 and 30 million. SEK of a defence budget of around 35 billion. kr. I assume that the Council of State has brought with it the reactions of the BFO and the Norwegian Officers' Association, which underline how deeply debilitating this is. So to read the defence budget, government teams in 2008 promised to compensate for the sector-specific wage and price compensation in defence. It has long been seen that the price rise in this sector is above the price rise elsewhere in the economy. But I can't read about this pay and price compensation now being included in the budget. When it comes to Svein Roald Hansen's question about the Right is not for efficiency, I think he knows the answer there himself. But unlike all other budgets, we find a recorded income in the defence budget under the term 'efficiency improvement'. But we've never been clear so far – and I don't think we're alone – to figure out how the defense is able to extract this efficiency gain, as everyone else in the public sector seems to be escaping. So to Laila Gustavsen, who revealed a part of Right's policy today. It was not a particularly successful revelation, because Peter Gitmark has quite correctly said what he has said – well-founded as well. Now the lap times show that we're at 0.98 pst, which is pretty close to 1 pst. of GNI. We don't measure it that way. We have a different approach in the Right to aid policy. When it comes to opening up larger import quotas – we are hit by quite strong adjectives today, because we want to cut off the aid to the world's poorest, labels that several speakers from the red-green parties have put on us – it might be tempting to ask a question back: Why do we have an import quota on sheep meat from the poorest countries of the world, for example Swaziland, Botswana and Namibia – the only commodity these poor countries have to sell? So well-born Norway says no for our own sake. Is there any less heart rate? So at the end of the day: State Council Solheim will have a strong reward for its contribution to strengthen the legislation on the continental shelf. So I hope this with the national audit problem gets the same kind of follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1326	The first part of this debate was marked by the fact that the representatives of the Progress Party were hurting that the Foreign Minister and I spent time criticising their alternative aid policy. So I kept a post that was completely progress-free, and when I turn my eyes out and start talking about Sudan, they hurt me for it too! No one here has suggested – no matter how much both Höglund and Myhre do – that you are responsible for the war in Sudan. That's not where it is. What we are criticising is that you will prevent Norway from taking reasonable steps to help resolve that conflict. The South Sudanese leaders have declared Norway a strategic partner in their work. The North Sudanese leaders very much appreciate what we're doing on the oil side. And, frankly, Minister of Foreign Affairs Clinton views our foreign minister as one of his closest partners in Sudan's policy. So the United States is emphasising what we're doing. My point is that this role Norway could not have played if it had not been for the Church's Emergency Aid and Norwegian Public Aid to have been providing assistance in these countries for a long time, and if it had not been for the fact that Norway is spending between 600 and 700 million. D to various assistance measures, many of which are also very politically directed in Sudan. Whether this effort is crucial to whether there will be war and peace in Sudan – I do not think we are going to exaggerate Norway’s importance, but it is something that is being emphasised, and as the Sudanese themselves think is very important, and as it would certainly be impossible to operate with the aid budget of the Progress Party. After all, the policy of the Progress Party is completely confused – I hope it is a parliamentary expression – because in this debate I have not heard a fine word about assistance from the Progress Party, and I have hardly heard a fine word from the representative Myhre about assistance – all my life. On the one hand, all time and effort is spent looking for reasonable counter-representations and criticisms to come up against development efforts. That's one side. On the other hand, there is no alternative policy. To the seventh and last, it's just to bring a little less money into the same budget lines as the red-green government has done. But you're going to spend 19 billion. kr on something that you spend all the time and all the power to tell you that no use, no meaning, is not tricked. This is what I feel is a little irresponsible towards the Norwegian population. If you take your own rhetoric seriously, it would be natural to put zero dollars and not 19 billion dollars. kr on the aid budget. If you think it's worth 19 billion. It has to be because a lot of this actually works, but you just want to spend a little less money on it. Then we come to what is essentially, and which is pointed out by several debaters: the Progress Party will spend less money on this, because it would rather spend money on tax bills and on a good deal of other purposes. There's no one here who's turned Right in the Hark with the Advance Party. We see a fundamental difference between the Right and the Advance Party. We are only afraid of what must necessarily be a compromise between the Right and the Advance Party if the two parties are to join forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1337	Also state councils are asked to address all speeches to the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1340	I have received some direct questions and will try to answer them. First, I would like to say that I am very happy that the Right is now concerned with veterinary issues, because when you go into the period 2001-2005, it was done very little – not to say nothing. So the government has had a big job to do. The quantum leap in veteran rights made since 2005 is worth noting. I agree with the mention of Bæria as a great resource, both for the Defense and for the veterans. There are extensive activities, and we want to reinforce them. There is also a major upgrading of the plant. We should know to take care of this center in order to give the veterans a better and better offer than today. The question of the removal of the Director-General for the Protection of the Home to the Teringmo was also raised. This is a recommendation from the Chief of Defense, which I have followed up, and I also follow up on the removal of the other inspectors-general. Now, with Østerdalen Garnison, the Inspector General of Heimevernet comes close to one of the strongest areas of Norwegian defence. It provides an opportunity to streamline skills, increase career opportunities and good management of Home Affairs. I also agree with those who have pointed to motivation as very important, and contributing to increased training and training for Home Protection is absolutely central to increased motivation. It is not a priority to continue the system of pure free travel for defence personnel. It is not a right, and it must be seen in the light that the number of commuting trips has also increased. I am also familiar with the discussion about the defence budget being properly regulated. It is worth noting that there is a professional consensus between the Defence Agency, the Defence Research Institute and the Ministry of Defence on the actual picture and the annual need for compensation in the defence sector. Nor do I assume that the Right wants to ignore requirements for internal efficiency improvement, and I therefore perceive that the Right does not have the basis to claim what they are doing about the regulation. As far as we know today, the 2011 budget is fully compensated for the defence-specific cost increase, while the entire 2011 compensation will only be in place during the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1357	It has been a good and interesting debate, I think. Let me start by commenting on an article by the representative Myrli, who was concerned with political 'noise' and detail management – I think was the word he used. I think it was a good reasoning. I think he took a lot of things on the grain, and I expect that it's a self-experienced experience from this summer he used as an example, when he started early one morning at the NRK and talked about defending the compensation system for veterans and standing within the scheme that was adopted, but ended up saying something completely different during the day. So development and progression can be important for more than the opposition and can certainly also apply to the part of the position. I believe that the Council of State has also talked about – that we should look further at the system that is currently in place. In this way you have to listen to people with experience. I actually learned in my first period here that noise is an important tool for the opposition. Yes, it is. One of the government members today put in the same committee as me, and if I learned one thing from him, it was: use the media, create noise, get attention on political matters that are important. In that way, I don't necessarily think that's wrong. It's more about who uses it, when. That's the big, jumping question. So, State Council Faremo talked about taking responsibility for what you're doing. Yes, there is no doubt that we will do so, just as I realized that the Council of State was here on Friday and took responsibility for the discussion around HV. I guess that's something we're all doing. But that approach would be equal to, would be a surprise, because then there would be no policy left. It's the inequalities that create an arena for debate – the inequality that creates the arena for different views. It's the inequalities that create political interest outside this house, and if we can't get it out, we've done a bad job as politicians. In this way, I think this is important. I also record that the majority will not support our proposal for a life-cycle survey. It is justified that it is being worked on in a shopping message. I interpret that as agreeing to vote against because it is the wrong proposal. It's kind of okay, while I think it's a little sad and a little stupid. I believe, and have also learned, that some of the strength of Norwegian society is liberalism and tolerance. Although we have discussed who is responsible for the war in Sudan today, I nevertheless believe that in the Norwegian model there is a great deal of liberalism, although the tool up to the goal may be different. I'm recording that you don't want it. I'm recording that you're talking about veterans and veterans, and you're talking about getting a message. If someone's earned it, it's the veterans, doubtless, not least because of the essential fact of the Defense and the nation's reputation. The ones that we send out on the craziest missions, the ones that have the greatest risk, at the same time, we have to provide the best possible protection before, under and not least afterwards, for the sake of themselves, but perhaps the most for the sake of all those who are left at home and are concerned every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1372	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[See pages 1263 and 1273]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1388	The flood in Pakistan is one of the largest natural disasters the world has witnessed in recent times. Five months have passed, the TV cameras are gone, but the situation is still critical for very many. That, in addition, they encounter a cold winter, makes the situation even worse. Nearly 1,800 people have lost their lives so far, and over 20 million people have been affected. Among these, nearly 11 million people need emergency help. I was recently in Pakistan and was given the opportunity to meet Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani of Pakistan. He had a clear message, and it was that the help of the international community was absolutely necessary for Pakistan, but that coordination with Pakistani authorities was not good enough. He would make sure to put in place a strategy plan for targeted assistance to the flood victims in the coming years, and he wanted better cooperation from the international community. I note that the government in this proposition also underlines that there have been challenges related to coordination and rapid response, and that the government will work to ensure good coordination internationally and in crisis areas. It would have been very interesting to know more specifically how the council will make sure that it actually happens. If the flood victims are to receive the help they actually need, then good and effective coordination of relief organisations is essential. Without close and good cooperation with local actors, this will not be possible. Another important challenge is that women and children – who are a very vulnerable group – actually get the protection and help they need. Turning to the flooded areas, it is striking that it is largely the men who are out there and who are securing help, while the women are hidden away. I registered in a press release after the Development Minister had visited the flood victims in Pakistan at the end of November this year, that the Council of State expressed the same concern about the absence of women. The right is concerned that women and children are assured of the help they need. One way to do this is to strengthen the outreach work of the auxiliaries, so that they come into direct contact with these women. In this proposition, 115 million is proposed. DKK for emergency aid to the victims of the floods in Pakistan. The overall contribution from Norway to Pakistan’s humanitarian response plan in 2010 will subsequently amount to 400 million. kr. Norway has thus become one of the largest donors after the flood in Pakistan. I also think it is important to get the Crown Prince Haakon's outstanding commitment to this matter. In fact, the Crown Prince participated, among other things. in a torch for the flood victims in Oslo, where the Crown Prince showed great concern for those affected, and encouraged the Norwegian population to contribute to what they could. I believe that this is a pretty strong signal for both the people of Norway and the international community. In addition, it is worth mentioning that many Norwegian and Norwegian Pakistani organisations and individuals in Norway have made a major effort to raise money for the victims. It is great that Norway, as one of the richest countries in the world, has gone ahead and taken responsibility, and I hope that Norway will become an example for other countries. It is quite essential that the whole of the international community should be able to provide adequate assistance to the victims of the flood. The situation as of today is that of SEK 1.93 billion. US dollars that the United Nations has requested for its work in flood areas the following year, it's only 45 pst. who have come in from the world community. So let's hope that the international community will follow Norway and contribute more help so that more people can be saved and secured a safer future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1409	The TV cameras aren't completely switched off in Pakistan, are they? We have all seen the descriptions in both sound and images of the disaster that has hit the country, and the need for help is acute. But now it's not entirely without contradictions that the Progress Party is voting to grant 115 million. kr to Pakistan. Pakistan should have been able to sort this out by itself. The country is the world's sixth most populous nation. In Pakistan, 177 million people live. There are almost 40 million more inhabitants in Pakistan than there are in Russia. Pakistan is a major force in Asia. Pakistan is a nuclear power. The country is also among the world's most corrupt. It must be embarrassing for Pakistani authorities to have to go to the very small country of Norway to ask for millions to repair damage caused by the failure of Pakistani authorities to provide corrective measures. The water flow in the Indus and the bee rivers is sometimes extreme, and large floods of this type occur a few times in every century. Therefore flood dikes or canals are needed for the derivation of floodwaters. This has been known for years, but Pakistani authorities have not bothered to do anything about it. I also have to say that 115 million. SEK to a country with 177 million inhabitants equals 65 cents per capita. A similar allocation in Norway, for some purpose in Norway, i.e. 65 øre per capita, would amount to 3.5 million compared to the Norwegian economy. kr. 115 million. SEK – 65 øre per capita in Pakistan – Pakistan should be able to provide for itself. If Norway had requested similar assistance from a country with a thirty-fiveth of the population of Norway, which corresponds to the relationship between Norway and Pakistan, we would be able to go to a country with 140 000 inhabitants. So small countries aren't many of them. It is similar to a country such as the United Kingdom. has one third of the population in Luxembourg, and then we should ask them for money to solve problems in Norway. I think it must be embarrassing for Pakistani authorities, who have failed to take the necessary measures over such a long time, to go around the world with their hats in hand to ask for millions. But with reference to the humanitarian disaster that has arisen, the Progress Party will join the Government's proposal of 115 million. kr to help the victims of the floods in Pakistan. We hope that the Minister of Aid will ensure that the funds are used in a good way, so that the flood victims will be given full currency for the money that the Stortinge grant now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1424	The flood in Pakistan is one of the greatest natural disasters in modern times. It didn't kill so many people, maybe up to 2,000, but in terms of material, economic and social damage, there are few disasters that are of similar calibers. A place between 15 and 20 million people are affected, and it was, for all practical purposes, a wandering earthquake that started up in the Himalayas, moving from north to south through Pakistan, and in parts of the Mind, the southernmost province of Pakistan, there is still water out there. We were, as Afghan Rafiq was inside, last week and visited one of the flood areas near the town of Peshawar, where the Norwegian refugee aid makes an effort. What you see there is that no one died in the flood itself and fortunately no one afterwards in the form of cholera or other diseases afterwards, but people had completely destroyed their livelihood. They had saved their lives, but they had not been able to bring domestic animals, in a culture how many live of domestic animals. The earth was washed away. The seed was gone. Only someone had had the seeds so that you could get the winter crop. And the houses, yes, the best-built brick houses stood – and of course they were the most prosperous houses – while all poorly built houses, that is. The house of poor people, was washed away. Schools and health centres were coming back, but it will take a very, very long time. The typical thing about this is, of course, that it is the poorest that are hit hardest, and Pakistan is a big country, but it is also a very poor country. There are more poor people in Pakistan than are likely to be in all countries in Africa except Nigeria. So it's a country with great poverty, cf. the previous debate on concentration on Africa. India, of course, has many more poor than any country in Africa. So it's the poorest people who are hardest hit, and we have a long experience that poor people have a lot of trouble getting back in the longer term after such a disaster. Norway will go in with funds, and we will do so by strengthening the UN system so that they can coordinate better, and we will do so as far as possible through Pakistani authorities. It's not because I don't share many of Peter N. Myhre's references to weaknesses in Pakistan – I share many of them – but it's because we have to help Pakistan have a state apparatus that is better able to deal with such disasters in the future, and then we have to go through them. And there are no coordination bodies in Pakistan other than the Pakistani authorities and the United Nations. Having said that, I also share the view that Pakistan must contribute more itself. It cannot continue to be so, to say it very simply, that a Pakistani bus driver in Oslo will pay taxes or give to non-governmental organisations to send money to Pakistan, while the Pakistani elite who live in Pakistan does not contribute itself. This is an unacceptable situation, and I also raised with Prime Minister Gilani when I met him, that we must expect Pakistan to contribute more itself. Pakistan can only do that if Pakistan starts to get a tax system where Pakistan's citizens pay taxes. Today, Pakistan has one of the lowest tax rates anywhere in the world, for example. much lower than India, the neighbouring country with which you often compare. I come straight from a seminar with Sonia Gandhi who was very much about how India would get more tax revenue in order to build a more well-functioning state. The Indian authorities have set out on the agenda how to raise the tax level in India in order to get money for example. the flood prevention that Peter N. Myhre called for. Pakistan has an extremely low tax level, and for all practical purposes, it is only the Pakistani middle class – employees, but they are few – who pay taxes. Top Pakistani elites almost don't pay taxes, and for a large part, the money earned is invested outside Pakistan, not least in the Middle East. It is not a permanent basis for building a strong state. We cannot fail to point out these things in our cooperation with Pakistan. I decided with Gilani that we expect Pakistan to create a tax system, so Pakistan itself will contribute to the development of the country. He agreed, but the test of this is of course whether he follows it up and does it. Let me also say – without being unfine – that I still remember the first message we got after the earthquake in Sichuan, China a few years ago. It sounded as follows on the radio: Five people have been reportedly confirmed dead in a major earthquake in western China, and Prime Minister Wen has sat down on the plane to the earthquake area. Well, then any thinking person knew that one of the two informations was crazy. Either this was a much larger earthquake than that five died, or then it was false that Wen was on the plane. We know the answer. It was a very earthquake, but it was true that Prime Minister Wen had resolutely sat down on the plane to the earthquake area. The President of Pakistan remained in Europe for two weeks after the earthquake disaster occurred in Pakistan. And yes, there are differences. It's e.g. major security problems for the President of Pakistan by going out and being seen as taking the lead in relief work in the same way as Prime Minister Wen did in China. But there's still a contrast that it must be allowed to point out, that while Chinese authorities at the absolute top level threw themselves into the harness, got out, stood in the ruins and was viewed as showing kindness to the people and taking direction in the work, we haven't seen the same resolute response from Pakistan's leadership. So the conclusion is, we need to help, we need to help, and we need to help in such a way that we help build through this more functioning Pakistani state. But we must also be allowed to demand Pakistan that its own elite start paying taxes and contribute to the construction of its own country, and that its political authorities be seen as taking the same resolute leadership in the disaster in Pakistan, as for example. the Chinese leaders are doing in China.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1443	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1275]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1451	The size is ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1459	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Morten Højlund, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing proposals No. 2–17, from Morten Høglund on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposals Nos. 1–16 is included in the setting on page 93, while proposal No. 17 is distributed in the representative's seats in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2–16, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up an expert group to assist developing countries in providing red tape and barriers to trade.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a trading facility to stimulate growth in the private business of Africa.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to restore the Norwegian Consulates-General of Minneapolis and Edinburgh.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to provide a comprehensive overview of all projects and project partners supported by the EEA funds.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a ‘blacklist’ of the assistance organisations that do not take the corruption issue seriously and take appropriate measures to prevent corruption in the aid exposure.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an independent review of Norwegian aid organisations alleged to have been involved in the conflict in Sudan.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in an administrative audit of Norwegian aid to the Palestinian self-government authorities.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to stop any assistance to the Palestinian self-government authorities that directly or indirectly supports teaching with an anti-Israeli or anti-Semitian message.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Free Trade Agreement between EFTA/Norway and Colombia to be ratified by the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of an African Trade Facility corresponding to a budget of approximately 200 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to include the development of a viable business as an integral part of all development policy interventions’. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up an overview of how Norwegian customs barriers affect the pattern of imports of goods from developing countries.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks it to evaluate the experience of microcredit as a development policy instrument.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out external evaluations of all Norwegian peace and reconciliation initiatives over the last 30 years.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide an evaluation of Norway’s participation in the UNHRC.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1560	There is a vote on proposal No. 17 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a living conditions survey for the veterans from foreign missions, in order to identify the challenges and adaptation difficulties they face after the end of their service. The study should be carried out in close cooperation with the veterinary organisations.» The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e1577	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a thorough investigation of the use of assistance to Ethiopia and Uganda as soon as possible, with a view to detecting any political abuse of the means of assistance.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e3301	The President expects the Advance Party and the Right to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e4893	The President expects the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e4923	The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the vote, so the president expects the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-12-03.ana.ud2360e5636	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
