ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e61	Last November, I presented a report to the Council of Europe, which in Norwegian is called something like: immigrant women: especially exposed to domestic violence. The report was unanimously adopted, and it was further decided that these women should also be mentioned in particular in the Convention with which it is now working. The Convention is about preventing and combating violence against women and children. The Minister of Justice is well aware of the issue and has himself been very committed and active in the fight against violence in close relations. But it is with the background of the campaign that the Council of Europe has had for three years on violence in close relations that the challenge with immigrant women first emerged, and it was on the basis of the signals that we were then given that we chose to make a special report on the matter. Violence in close relationships between immigrant and refugee women is a little-known problem, and it turns out that this has become a taboo area in a number of countries, based on a misunderstanding of respect for immigrant environments, which unfortunately for women can end in a fatal way. Immigrant women who have come to the country on family reunification or who have already lived in the country as a pick-up bride are very difficult to catch. It is easier for women who are picked up in Norway by ethnic Northmen because they speak either English or Norwegian to a greater or lesser extent, and thus can seek help in crisis centres and report relations with the police. Unfortunately, there are also many of these women who end up in the crisis centre, and if they have not been married for more than two years and can demonstrate that they have been subjected to violence, they are sent home again. But, as I said, these women can seek help and get it in the Norwegian system. Far worse for those women who come here on family reunion or through arranged marriage. They become very vulnerable because of language barriers, social isolation and family pressure. In many countries of origin, there are family codes and rules that keep women in a subordinate and isolated position. Unfortunately, this too often accompanies the woman to the host country and contributes to her inability to integrate. Women coming to family reunion are totally dependent on their husband during the probationary period, which in many countries is two years and in some places three years. If during this trial period she should seek divorce from a violent man, she will be sent home, which for her will result in her coming home in disgrace. Therefore, women refuse to report violence and assault. They have no one to contact, and they do not know where they can get help. This is a group of women who do not receive protection in the host country. Unfortunately, it is such that violence against immigrant women can have an extreme and peculiar form. In many places in Europe, women are hospitalized with serious burns because their men have lit them. In addition, there are both honorary and forced marriages, as other examples, except what we know as violence and mental terror. This cannot be accepted, nor is it justified and partly defended by cultural or religious differences and traditions between the host country and the country of origin. What we found when we worked on this report was that violence against women is exacerbated by racism, discrimination and the feeling of helplessness or exclusion in the host country. It is therefore very important to look at the relationship between violence against women in migrant settings and integration. How can we improve the relationships of immigrant women who are exposed to violence in close relationships? There are several possibilities, but the first and most important thing we can do is dry talking about it. Too often, this becomes time-consuming, a misunderstood and misguided integration. Secondly, it is clear that violence and oppression and isolation of women cannot be defended as religious or culturally dependent. For example, Sharialover has to be do not justify violence against women in close relationships. The Council of Europe adopted a resolution in 2006 inviting Member States to give women independent legal status regardless of spouses, if possible as early as one year. Some countries, e.g. Sweden has introduced tools in its integration policy to facilitate the granting of independent status and a separate residence permit for immigrant women who are victims of domestic violence, as is the case in Norway. But the challenge is to capture these women. They don't see and they don't hear. The book ‘Only a Daughter’ of Indian Sarita Skagnes and Lene Wikander draws a picture of how some women and children experience coming to Norway. They have great expectations, but it goes from bad to worse. In the United Kingdom, a procedure was introduced in 2002 to allow immigrant women who were exposed to domestic violence to stay on an independent basis. Another tool is to involve men in immigrant communities in order to achieve results in combating violence against women. People talk to each other, and different immigrant organisations can be an important partner in changing attitudes on these issues. Dialogue is important in all arenas, whether you're talking about non-governmental organisations, public organisations, or you're talking to the individual. Voluntary organisations have a unique opportunity to inform and influence immigrant women, especially given that women in contact with women provide room for communication and listening to the individual. However, public authorities should also take responsibility for following up women who come to Norway on family reunification. In my report, it is pointed out that the immigrant communities in which violence against their women is ‘justified’ on the basis of culture or religion, in many cases have no culture for such in their home countries at all. On the other hand, there will be an unculture after one has settled in the host country. Some countries of origin, including Turkey, have contributed to informing isolated women in Europe through national press, where Turkish authorities advertise contact telephones for abused women in different host countries in their native language. For example, in Germany a telephone has been set up for Turkish women, where those operating the telephones speak the mother tongue to the woman. This makes it much easier and much easier to ask for help. Then we finally have to repeat again and again that any violence against women, including that at home, is completely unacceptable. Then the question to the Minister of Justice, especially now that he is also sitting in the UN Human Panel against Violence Against Women, is how he views the various instruments that I have mentioned here, or whether some immigrant women continue to be lawless in the state of law in Norway. And does he have any views on whether it is time to review the action plan on violence in close relations, in order to capture this discrimination against immigrant women?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e93	It is a complex and challenging problem area that the representative Woldseth is addressing in a commendable way today. I understand that there are actually three discussions: the question of the requirement to live, to a large extent the question of integration, and also further action against violence against women. Let it be said at once that violence against women in family relationships is one of the most serious crime phenomena we face. It affects women in different environments and with different backgrounds. The government has put in place a number of measures in this area, well described in the Vendpoint Action Plan, with 50 measures that expire in 2011, and which we have absolutely ambitions to renew. There's an answer to that question. In the case of the requirement to live, a three-year period of residence is currently required before a foreigner can obtain a permanent residence permit. I perceive the representative Woldseth so that she believes that the requirement for living should be reduced or dropped. Woldseth indicates that women «are entirely in the hands of their husbands for the first two years of their stay in the country. If they apply for divorce due to violence during these two years, will be returned to the country of origin.’;» This isn't right. Under both current and previous legislation, a woman is entitled to a continuing residence permit on a sea-going basis if the woman or any child has been abused in the context of a life relationship, whether the woman or child has not lived in Norway for three years. The purpose of this provision is not to force foreign women to remain in a marriage in which she or the children are abused for fear of losing their residence permit in Norway. The maltreatment provision shall apply mutatis mutandis to both sexes under new foreign law which entered into force on 1 January 2010. But we had made rules before this. Low claims are made for the likelihood of mistreatment according to the provision: the woman’s explanation of abuse must be taken into account, unless there are clear points of view to assume that it is incorrect. For the last three years, there have been approximately 80 pst. by all those who have been dealt with the case under this maltreatment provision, have been allowed to stay. The reason why I stress this is that it is obviously important to provide information that you have such a provision, and that this actually gives a result that is quite different from the one the representative Woldseth is now drawing a picture of. The representative Woldseth also asks for my views on whether the action plan against violence in close relations should be revised in the light of the rules of the Foreign Affairs Act on permanent residence permits. There, I just want to state that the requirement of living time applies in principle equally to men and women, so that there cannot be a shorter requirement for living time for women than for men. The length of the residence requirement was assessed in the context of the examination of proposals for a new foreign law in Ot.prp. No 75 for 2006-2007. I allow myself to recall that the Progress Party did not propose to remove or reduce the requirement for living, but that it should actually be extended to five years. The majority of the population, however, went in to continue living in three years, as proposed by the Government. I believe that the requirement for living should not be changed. However, as the legislation has also been established, abused women should be granted a residence permit under a specific derogation. So to something that's also an important part of the interpellation, the integration measures. It is absolutely essential that we continue to invest in good integration, precisely to catch up with these women, so that they can get in touch with the civil society in Norway. For me, it is a paradox in this – how to better prevent, how to get women on the road – to see how the Progress Party chooses to build its alternative state budget in terms of integration. It would just affect many of the vulnerable women who the representative Woldseth is very much concerned with. Cutting the effort of the Directorate of Integration and Diversity by 120 million. kr, cutting the number of refugees by SEK 1.3 billion, cutting Norwegian education and social skills by over 400 million. The reduction of grants to non-governmental organisations working in this field is related, inter alia, to: violence, with 45 million. kr and cutting off proceedings in the Foreign Affairs Directorate by over NOK 2 billion, as proposed by the Advance Party, would well be one of the greatest threats these vulnerable women would face if it had really been implemented. This is where the key to much of Woldseth's business lies: just learning Norwegian, getting in touch with good social Norwegian networks, which helps to provide a new foundation, a new foundation, among other things. to indicate the abuse to which many of them are subjected. In the case of training in Norwegian and social sciences, for example, the legislation has been adapted to ensure that women do not lose their right to training if they have been withheld from training. Women who are authorised on the basis of family reunification are thus entitled to free training in Norwegian and social knowledge under the law of introduction – very important for vulnerable women who are subjected to violence and abuse. This right is initially valid for three years from the date of authorisation or from the date of arrival in the country. For persons who have been detained by spouses or other related family members from Norwegian and social education, exceptions have been made, so that the time limit for completing free training runs from the training requirement. The same applies to persons who have not been able to take part in training due to high levels of care obligations. It would be sad if this good system were to be dismantled, as the Progress Party proposes in its alternative budget. Then to the introduction program. Persons who have obtained a residence permit on the basis of marriage of a person authorised on the basis of asylum, are a transfer or have received collective protection are subject to the rules of the law of introduction concerning the right and obligation to participate in the programme, subject to compliance with other conditions laid down in the law of introduction. Women participate in the introduction program on the same lines as men. In 2009, the Government, at the hearing, submitted a proposal that persons who have been granted a divorce authorisation on the basis of sexual abuse or on the basis that they cannot return due to excessive difficulties in their home country due to the social and cultural conditions there should be given the right and obligation to introduce a programme. The same applies to persons who have been authorised because their marriage is known to be invalid because of coercion. So over to the authority's ability to capture women who are kept at home. The National Introductory Register, NIR, allows municipalities to have an overview of which women have the right and obligation to participate in Norwegian courses or introductory programmes but do not attend the training. I would encourage the municipalities to take advantage of this opportunity to do a little extra outreach to this group. For example, the municipality could: take a phone, or even ring the door, to get in direct contact with the woman and inform her of the right and obligation to Norwegian training, the consequences of not participating and asking why she has not met. If the municipality catches up with such a contact that the woman is in a difficult situation, for example: with abuse or repression, this is an opportunity for the public to be able to assist her with other relief measures, possibly just give her a point of contact away from home, which in itself may be sufficient. The prerequisite for this is that we actually run this program. The prerequisite for this is that money is allocated in the Stortinget, so that you can run this program, and that's why I think the interpellant might have a larger task in its own party and group than she actually has in relation to the other parties here in the hall. For me, such activities are not about public intervention in the private sphere, but about the fact that in some cases the public should extend a little longer to ensure that all citizens have the opportunity to participate in society. Some of these women can live in such an isolated life that they become invisible to the environment in the local environment, and then the municipality has to take the role of a neighbour-carrying marine. So in the end, just a little bit about the action plan I was going to introduce. It's an action plan with 50 measures, where we have the ambition to get fulfilled, so to speak, everyone. We are on the right track, with the good help of all the parties in Stortinget, also the Progress Party. The action plan is the root of the government’s efforts to combat violence in close relations and contains several actions aimed directly at women with ethnic minority backgrounds. One important measure is to ensure that more women who have come to Norway through family immigration are involved in Norwegian training, as they have the right and the duty to do. Through good Norwegian knowledge and better knowledge of their own rights, women become less vulnerable if they are subjected to violence. A brochure has also been developed focusing on legal rights for women exposed to violence in close relationships in eight different languages. In order to meet the needs of an increasingly complex user group, measures have been taken to enhance the competence of crisis centres. At this stage, it is not planned to revise the existing action plan until 2011. It is not so far away, so I have to tell you today in Stortinget that we are doing this work in the department well. This is a field where we have seen significant results from the efforts that have been made. We've had a growth in the number of criminal cases in this important field, and we've built an auxiliary facility in the form of crisis centres and children's homes. But we're not in the end at all. That is why, in the end, we must also give tribute to the representative for her choosing to travel such an important theme for the debate on interpellence in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e136	It's interesting to hear the Great Mountain. I think he takes too little into account what is really the challenge, and that underlies the interpellation, the invisible, the weakest, those who are isolated and who cannot speak the language. There are no limits to the number of fine measures being taken — both Norwegian and introduction courses, one with the other. I think it's nice for those women who have the opportunity to go there. However, when using the argument of being ‘restrained’ to extend the time limit for taking Norwegian courses over three years, it means that there are some women in Norway who are detained by their men for three years without intervention. That's why I liked what the Council of State said in the end, that you might have to do outreach, and you shouldn't forget that then these women have to meet women and not municipal men, because they won't be allowed to open the door if there's a man out there. And that has to be interpreted. I said that Norway has similar what Sweden has, that you can stay on your own basis if there is violence. But that's the same problem here, that you probably don't get to see violence until the women are so damaged that they have to go to the hospital or doctor. And that's where we have to grab these women. The Council of State would like to criticise the immigration policy of the Progress Party. Now, well, the Progress Party is the one that is most strongly involved in the desire to integrate the people who are here, and to live a life similar to that of those who live in the country from before. But it helps very little if there are still hundreds of women living behind closed doors who are not allowed to get out, and who are being suppressed, beaten and coercive. And it's not just about women either, it's actually also about children. When Storberget says that 80 pst. Of those who wanted to stay here on an independent basis, it got it on the basis of domestic violence, it is very nice. But I wish that the Council of State could break down these numbers, so that we see how many of the women who are pick-up brides for ethnic Northmen, and how many of those who are immigrant women, who have been given this opportunity. If you are unable to speak, you cannot convey that you need help. That's why I'm dealing with this interpolation. My concern is those of all, the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e149	There is no doubt that this is a very difficult field, and that many of the programmes undertaken by the previous government, as well as the current government – and to the extent that it continues and spends a lot of money on – are an unusually important tool for getting women on the road. When the representative Woldseth points out that you can't speak, it's hard to talk to the police, difficult to talk to others, I totally agree. At some point, however, representatives of the Progress Party must also take responsibility for the alternative proposals that the Progress Party is making. There are two issues that are particularly central to these women. It is the living requirement, as the Progress Party proposes to extend to five years — not to reduce it — and that too many of those who do not dare to report will make it much worse. It has to include a settlement, we can't do that from the Government. The second question is: what do you do to learn languages, learn social sciences, get in touch with the Norwegian official authorities? I think, with all due respect, it'll be a little too easy to say that here it's not the government or the bulk of the population who deliver, all the time actually – as I pointed out in my main post – chooses to use this area in society as a main section. This does not apply only to proceedings in the UDI. You're about to drop the Directorate of Foreign Affairs. One will not be dealt with under this abuse provision. Almost all reception activities are to be shut down, but also the measures that work in this field, namely the introduction programme and language training. For me, it's nice to stand and listen to politicians who actually burn to help women – I don't doubt the commitment to Karin Woldseth, I've experienced it in many other contexts is real – but at the same time they're involved and contribute to kissing so significantly in both language training and introduction programs in one debate and in the other debate is here saying that these women have to learn Norwegian language. You have to take responsibility for that. Then we get to sit in government, and those who form the majority of these appropriations, look at the extent to which this works, and whether you need more funding. In the last few years, it has been decided to increase this significantly, among other things. because these vulnerable women need to be seen, channels need to be out. I don't think the way to go is to cut out language training and introduction programs, or to reduce it significantly. I think the way to go is to develop it further. Contact with civil Norwegian working life is often a very good guarantee to get a new basis in their lives, but also to dry out when something is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e162	I want to start by thanking Mr Woldseth for raising this debate, and in line with the Minister of Justice, I am convinced that your commitment to these women is real. There are many of us who are concerned about the everyday life of many of these women. At the same time, I would also like to thank the Minister of Justice for a very good answer, which points out in a very good way the challenges we have, the means we have, and the ability to develop them further. But I have to say that I was a little surprised at the response of the representative Woldseth when we now know that the Progress Party is cutting and will build down the integration policy we have in Norway today. The representative doesn't even come up with constructive suggestions on how she thinks you can help these women. I would like to hear more about that. Having said that, I will commend the Minister of Justice for the tremendously good, genuine and sincere commitment he has shown in the matter of violence in close relations. There has been a visible debate, and there is still a very visible debate in the municipalities, and more and more municipalities sit down and do thorough, good work on action plans against violence in close relationships. Once upon a time, it's in the municipalities that people live in, and I'm impressed when I see how systematically you work. Surveys and calculations are carried out on the kind of challenges facing violence in close relationships in their municipalities — large municipalities and small municipalities, with different challenges. There are concrete proposals for action to address this in the municipalities in terms of both revealing and making such taboo themes as violence in close relationships to a topic that you can talk about both around a coffee table and in family dinners. Then we have the crisis centres, which are now receiving a different funding, which will strengthen and secure them in the future. We have children's homes and the many conversation groups that start up on these issues around the municipalities, which means a lot to everyone who is exposed to violence in close relationships, and this group that the representative Woldseth is concerned about. It has come to my mind a challenge that I want to look at more closely. There are men who encourage women who are hungry – and then I think from a number of alien cultural environments – to go to a doctor to get sick so that they don't go to school. This is because in some cultures, as we know, women want to be at home. I think we have to say that it is totally unacceptable that women are forced to be at home, and do not get this important Norwegian training and social training. This is at least something I want to go closer to in the seams to see if it is the case. And if that is the case, we must of course demand that women, after they have been informed again and after they have completed their maternity and care leave, have an obligation to complete the training that the society in Norway says they should have. In conclusion, I would like to say that there is an affordable debate that the representative Woldseth is travelling here, but I had hoped that the representative could be even more specific about what kind of action she thinks would help these women. I have a very open mind for new and constructive proposals that may come in addition to the instrument we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e177	I also want to praise the interpellant to address this important field. It's a bit of a shame that there are no more people involved in this debate. This is such an important theme that all parties, and not least almost all committees, have to stand together, because this is a field and a problem that concerns not only one committee or one discipline, but several departments and committees. I had also thought that I should actually give honor to the Government and the Council of State for the commitment he has shown to violence in close relations – and he should have. But I have to say that when I heard the contribution to the Council of State, he went more to attack and cared more about the alternative budget of the Progress Party than to come up with concrete solutions to this issue. I just want to remind you that when the Progress Party presents its budget in terms of both integration and immigrants, we also have reservations that there are not so many immigrants to this country. We have now had a government that has been in power for four years. They've put forward plans, they've been introducing programs, they've been language courses and language programs, and it's great. But the theme that interpellant addresses is that of all, the weakest, the women who actually don't get into work, who don't get on language courses, who don't get on the introduction program. These are the women we have to help in this matter. It has now been prescribed by law in all municipalities to have a crisis offer. It was an example now in the Rome Christmas where actually more women – and then we talk about the most weak, really had managed to get out of the home and had made contact with the crisis center, but the crisis centre was full. It shows that the whole intention of this is going to be completely wrong. In this case, both the government and the big business, which states that it should be required by law in the municipalities, must ensure that the municipalities have the capacity to accept the women who contact them. You can't send them home again to a violent husband or roommate. What's so important here is that these women who need it are also seen. That interpellant has taken up, is how we can together manage to get the women we don't see. Then we have to stick with the municipalities and the police, so that we can see them. I hope that the Council of State in its summary will be able to see not only the programme of the Progress Party, but also see that the Progress Party is as busy as he is in seeing and helping these women, so that together we can find solutions that will give these women the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e192	It is commendable and pleasant that the Progress Party takes violence against women up in the Stortinget. It's an important topic, it's a serious topic, it's a societal theme. Women with both a majority background and a minority background are exposed to violence. It's unacceptable. There is an involvement of the Government and SV. It's an engagement we have every day, and we're going to show it further. Therefore, it is very interesting and pleasant that the Progress Party took it up again, and gave us the opportunity to discuss it in Stortinget. Such interpellation is built up, I began to wonder if the Progress Party had actually changed its position in integration policy. It had to be the conclusion, but it didn't. After hearing Karin S. Woldseth's main post, I was unfortunately disappointed again. She writes in her interpellation: ‘If they apply for divorce due to: violence during these two years, will be returned to the country of origin.’;» The conclusion of this must be that the Progress Party now wants to say that immigrant women who come to Norway are allowed to stay from day one. I have a specific question, which I hope the Progress Party will be able to answer in its later articles: Does the Advance Party believe so? Will the Progress Party support a proposal to reduce or eliminate residence time for immigrant women – for that matter also for men, because then there must be equality here? I think the answer is going to be no. Then we find that it's double communication. In that case, it is not the first time, but it is regrettable anyway. So until something the Council of State has said in the past, and that I will also mention. The main governance document to which the country is subject is the budget. There's something interesting in the budget. There is the Party of Advancement at all stages: all the institutions and all the measures that take precisely these vulnerable women, as mentioned by the Council of State. The Progress Party proposed to cut 120 million. SEK to the Directorate for Integration and Diversity, the settlement of refugees was cut by 1 323 million. NOK 45 million was deducted from non-governmental organisations. NOK, not to mention the Foreign Affairs Directorate with NOK 2.2 billion. That's big numbers. You can win a lot of integration and a lot of protection from violence against these women here. I am very busy and have visited the refugee reception. There's a concern. Women who live there are sadly subjected to violence, perhaps more than the women who live in society. There's no way society can get in, institutions can't get in. Women are afraid that reporting violence may have consequences for the asylum application. Then it gets worse for these women to report. And the Progress Party is cutting money to just the asylum recipients and measures to integrate women into society. I also have to say that the premise in the interpellation is wrong. The Council of State has shown that 80 pst. it is obtained by the women who ask for residence on the basis of their being subjected to violence. We have to remember that, too. Then I have to say that the measures we're promoting, the ones at the turning point, are good, and we're working on that. We have also reintroduced language training for the women sitting in receptions. It was an action that the right-wing government with the supporting votes of the Progress Party has removed. We've also doubled the language training hours from 300 to 600 hours, also to these women. The government will now work to ensure that healthcare professionals who come into contact with women at home are trained to detect violence before many others do. Then I can imagine that we make a little booklet where we tell the women who come to Norway, what rights they have in the country – in their own language.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e214	The fight against violence in close relations has the highest priority of the Christian People's Party. It's about violence, abuse, and failure to care for children, and it's about violence against women, which is today's theme. The figures and surveys we have in these areas show that a disturbingly high number of women and children are affected. Crime trends also show that the number of reports of violence in close relationships increased by almost 50 pst. last year. There are no excuses for violence against women. I have noticed that the Minister of Justice has expressed great willingness to give priority to these matters. Some good grips have also been taken, such as: the reverse-alarm project and the preparation of a separate law order affecting this type of violence. It deserves honor. Now it is important that the police get a consensus, clear and clear signal about prioritising violence in close relations and about moving out when reporting house noises. The Christian People's Party, in line with the interpellant, will be open to a review of the action plan against violence in close relations in order to better capture the violence against women taking place in the immigrant communities. An important element in this context will be to increase the competence for violence in close relations with health, child protection and other public services in contact with these families. This is important both in order to capture the signals that something is wrong and to report violence and suspicion of violence. I would also like to ask the Minister of Justice if the Government has a dialogue with the immigrant communities on this issue, perhaps if the Minister of Justice will take the initiative in such a dialogue. We cannot overcome this societal problem without the involvement and accountability of the groups concerned. Lawyers and crisis centres have repeatedly criticised the administration of foreigners for over-practice of the provision allowing for residence due to abuse in close relationships. Fafo has also pointed out that this has led to several women choosing to stay with their violent husband. This is serious and should be reviewed in order to ensure that the provision is effective on the assumption of size. I have noted that the interpellant from the Progress Party in the evening post advocates a strong liberalisation of Norwegian immigration policy in relation to family reunification, by reducing the requirement of living time. Requirements for residence would like to be part of the discussion of the Christian People's Party, especially with regard to the women who are subjected to violence. I'm recording that the Council of State says that 80 pst. by applicants for a residence permit are granted. That's good. But I wonder, what about the 20 pst? not allowed to stay? Who are they, and what kind of story do they carry? But in this matter of staying or living, the Christian People's Party likes to go into a discussion about it. Another equally important approach is to ensure a better and more consistent use of the abuse provision, to help those who really need it. But we follow with interest the new notes from the Progress Party on these questions. In a possible review of the action plan against violence in close relations, the Christian People's Party believes it is also important to focus on violence against the so-called pick-up breaks, as the interpellant also mentions. I have received concerns about Norwegian men who, even after being convicted of violence against former foreign spouses, pick up a new wife, who is also being abused. There is reason to ask questions as to whether the interaction between different bodies is good enough and whether the authorities have the necessary legal instruments and the necessary focus to prevent them from being allowed to repeat themselves. There is no excuse for violence against women and children. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the interpellant has addressed this issue, because it is a topic that deserves to be high on the social agenda. The Christian People's Party also hopes that today's debate can help to make the planning work against violence in close relations more effective, not least in the fight against violence against women in immigrant environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e237	First of all, I would like to thank the representative of the Christian People's Party for an absolutely glittering contribution. It was both interesting and constructive, unlike the other posts we've heard here, where it sounds like you're still running a campaign. But in case they haven't figured it out, the election is over. I brought up this topic because it's a real concern for me. The angle you now see in this debate, I would have thought would be much more case-oriented, and not attack on the Progress Party, because this is really a matter for which I am burning, then to those degrees. It's actually like there's no more than one week or two since there was an African woman who escaped to Sweden. She could neither Norwegian nor English, and therefore could not communicate. But she escaped to Sweden, because there she got help. She didn't think she was getting help in Norway. She had been here for a year and a half, and lived with a violent man. Of course, the Progress Party does not believe that the requirement for living should end. I have read what was adopted by the Council of Europe in 2006, inviting the Member States to give women independent legal status regardless of the husband's status after one year. That, of course, is not the policy of the Progress Party. It is a resolution adopted by the Council of Europe. I have to say I'm a little sorry, I'm actually pretty sorry that this debate ended this way. I hope that the Council of State, the Stortinget, the municipalities and the public, and not least the voluntary organizations that may come to test the women we don't see and get talked to or with, can work in the future to make them feel better, that they should become visible, and that we can catch them up. In order to do that, it is quite right that the representative Torve said that the municipalities must be made to do outreach activities. Neither crisis centres nor children's homes help. Crisis centres are great for women who are not in this group. But that's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about a group of women who don't think and how to get hold of them. That doesn't help with the introduction program. It does not help with Norwegian training, it does not help with anything, if the women are still isolated, beaten and beaten at home. It seems to me that the Council of State could take hold instead of going straight in the throat of the Progress Party. I think it should be a cross-political consensus that we must get hold of this group of women.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e250	I understand that it may be painful to be confronted with your own policy when you burn as much for a field as Karin S. Woldseth does. But you cannot respectfully report here and say that it is important that you get more language training, more contact with civil society, more introduction, that you get more opportunities to stay in the country, when you do the opposite in the budget, which is the most important key document. You have to take that. It's not a campaign. This is a real political debate. I just want to say – I also said that when we discussed the budget before Christmas – that the cut-off proposals that the Progress Party has in this field will just hit these vulnerable women. Do you think raising the requirement to live for five years would make these women easier? No, if one raises the requirement for residence, those who do not report will become a much larger group, which actually does not get to stay in the country. When you interact with a commitment, you challenge other politicians, you have to at the same time resist being confronted with your own policies. I understand that it is difficult in this area – I understand that it is difficult. So I just want to say that there isn't a type of crime that is really more extensive, more offensive, and that violates trust more than violence in close relationships. It is a pity and shame when we present our criminal cases that the only debate we often get is about burglaries in the houses – not about what's going on inside the houses. That's what's needed. That is why it is good that the debate should rise. The representative Becquerad was concerned with the question of how the police handle such cases. A few years ago, it was like operating with a code that was hot housewreck, and defecating it. But I want to say as strongly as I can, that both the efforts of the previous government and the efforts of the current government have helped to remove that perception. That's one of the reasons why there's been a growth of 400 pst. in the number of cases of family abuse with which the police work. That must be good. The fact that hundreds of children over the last two years have received help from our children's home, for which we have jointly adopted the budget, shows that it benefits, and that we can lift this field. But we're not done. I hope that the future debate on immigration, the future debate on asylum, will range from a debate on how many people come unwarranted to Norway, to a debate on how to deal specifically with vulnerable groups. These include those who are subjected to gender-based persecution, women who are subjected to violence, and not least all the children who come to Norway, those who have come to Norway, and those who will come to Norway in the future. That is why I fully agree with the representative Horne when she says that this is an important topic. Yes, it is so important that the Progress Party should change its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e262	So the debate is on case No. I'm done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e278	Travel life is an important industry for Norway. Travel life is the fourth largest industry, which maybe not everyone is aware of. It has been growing over time, but for 2009 it has had a negative development for many. The travel industry accounts for approx. 3.3 pst. of gross domestic product and select 6 pst. of total employment. In 2007, there were 14,090 registered travel businesses in Norway, and they were then traded for about 10 years. DKK 85 billion. What's also interesting to look at is where these jobs are, and who the tourism industry employs. The workplaces are often in the areas where the labour market is slaughtered, and the industry often gives jobs to women who want a job, but not necessarily a 100pst. position. The industry also offers school students and young people who need to work a little in addition to, for example: education or studies. From this point of view, the tourism industry maintains the rural environment and makes the districts more exciting and rich. Equally important is the industry for, among other things, the cultural landscape and the retention of traditions. This also applies particularly in the districts. Today's tourists will experience something out of the ordinary. You want the room, the service, the food, etc. should be in proportion to what you pay, and of course preferably a little more. But once you've experienced this, many people will have something more. Then it's too many that the pursuit of the experiences gets into the picture. It is then for the industry to be able to offer something that the competitor does not have, whether the competitor is Norwegian or foreign. On the weekend, that is. on Sunday, I was at the travel life fair at Lillestrøm – otherwise for the first time. There were very many standards, with very many temptations. The first position I came to, that is. noticed, was one from Sweden, and Dalarna. The reason was they brought a snowmobile. They could offer experiences in nature, where the snowmobile, if desired, could be part of the experience. It can also be a nice way to experience nature for those who need help to get this done. In Norway, this service may not be offered. This is to great annoyance for many, who could just imagine this as one of several things. A heathmarking I spoke to at a stand said that the snowmobile and the use of this unfortunately was not considered a commercial vehicle by the authorities. I know many in my district who would have liked to drive snowmobiles legally in Norway, in approved lanes. They now travel to Sweden, renting themselves into hotels, cabins or the like, and drive there. They also buy snowmobiles in Sweden, have services there as well as everything else they spend money on. This is going to be a lot of money, as Norway, the industry and the travel industry could get here instead. Of course, this is a small part, but there are many such regulations and obstacles that make it difficult to operate here, while our foreign competitors take advantage of it. So a few more numbers. In the first nine months of 2009, it was 23.6 million. days spent in Norway. Compared with the corresponding period in 2008, when it was approx. $24.3 million. overnight, this shows a decrease of almost 3 pst. In the case of turnover within the accommodation establishment, the turnover fell by 5 pst. The hotel business fell the most, with a total of 6.4 pst. Camping sites and tourist cabins, on the other hand, increased turnover by 10.7 p.m., which makes the situation somewhat lighter. All figures are from the first half of 2009 – versus 2008. That means that people spend less night, that's about. 3 pst., and that they spend the night in cheaper places than before. The same applies to those who sell food and drink etc. There is a lot of sales, but more types are sold that are more reasonable. While we're experiencing this, the Nordics are buying South journeys like never before, last year there was something different. This is probably due to many things, including: Fortunately, something that we politicians can't do with: weather. The rainy summer of 2009 caused many to travel to warmer areas. 60 pst. turnover growth is reported by the operators who are travelling abroad. This is nice for them, but it would be more pleasant if more of us would use our own country as a tourist resort. Although some places, such as The winter sports sites Trysil and Hemsedal, report increased sales, do not apply to all – in close proximity. A recent survey carried out by the main trade and service organisation before Christmas shows that the booking situation for a number of companies is weaker now than at the same time last year. 13 pst. reports significantly fewer orders. Only 5 pst. answered the same thing last year. The biggest decline has the district hotels, with minus 20 pst. But the city hotels also have a decline, although it is only 3 pst. If you look at the summer season 2010, you'll get 25 pst. they asked that they have lower or significantly lower bookings. These are scary numbers. And what's even more daunting is that 14 pst. by accommodation companies, it is highly probable that they will face liquidity problems beyond spring. This means that many people, for example: will delay and possibly cancel investments in the company, which will cause those who need this upgrade or this expansion to get even tougher. People are asking for quality, and so it can be even harder to get a good result. This applies to approx. 50 pst. by the people who asked. The last Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, Sylvia Brustad, said through his government's Soria Moria Declaration that tourism is one of five industries in which Norway has special prerequisites for success. A strategy was also put in place to invest in business — and thus tourism. Many in the industry and also those who somehow receive their share of tourist income have not noticed anything special about this. Forty pst. by the tourist, goes to the purchase of services or products from non-travel life itself, it is said. So what can you do to maintain the industry and preferably strengthen it? The Progress Party believes that there are many things that can be done so that the industries can become stronger and grow. Some things are simple, like what I started with: giving opportunities, for example. snowmobile services, as in Sweden. Other things that are simple are getting a lower level of taxes. This will help the industry to be more competitive in terms of what tourists today have to pay in Norway — versus abroad. Furthermore, an increased commitment to transport is an important part of this. This applies in all areas, but perhaps especially on the way. It also has to be easier to get a sign, whether it's along the way or for example. on buildings. Moreover, this must be cheaper than it is today. Marketing is important to succeed. We need to make it easier, faster and more reasonable when someone is applying to expand, build, reregulate, etc. It must be easier to combine two or more professions, such as: the farmer who wants to do some tourism as well. This is very important, as it also strengthens agriculture and housing. For example, the same thing will happen. apply to those who have their industry along the coast. In addition, a great deal of marketing is needed, both to get Norwegians to leave in Norway and, most importantly, to get foreigners to come here. Here the Government has increased somewhat, but far from what the Progress Party has in its alternative budget proposal. It's okay to get e.g. Germans come here in their cars, but a lot of money doesn't make it. Otherwise, the government will have to play even more with the industry. What about doing e.g. Oslo and other suitable cities to great, beautiful and interesting cruise cities? These are often tourists with a lot of money who are interested in quality and who thus have the opportunity to pay. Similarly, we need to make Norway more interesting for those who do not want to spend so much money on a holiday, both in terms of our own residents, and in terms of foreigners. This is where Norway is so unique and can offer so much different. But to achieve this, public support is needed, not necessarily much more money, but a simplification of just laws and rules. We also need to think industry and tourism together. Many have succeeded, such as Magnor Glassworks, which has well over 100,000 visitors each year. There may be several such companies that can be developed, so that there will be a win-win situation for everyone. For that they may need some help, but the most important thing is that they are allowed to make their plans real. Finally, predictability is also important for this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e324	It is an important theme of the inter-pellant policy. He doesn't know that at least from his own country where you have managed very well in your travel strategy and created many profitable jobs. However, the financial crisis has also had an impact on the Norwegian tourism industry. First of all, it is noticed that fewer foreigners have chosen to visit Norway this year. The financial crisis has led to a decline in the number of international travellers worldwide, and in Europe and North America in particular. The decline in the number of foreign tourists to Norway does not differ significantly from that seen internationally. In 2009, for example, Norway has lost fewer foreign tourists than both Finland and Denmark. Sweden has been doing well in the past year, which is largely attributable to a growth in the number of Nordics and Danes who have spent the summer vacation to Sweden due to a favourable exchange rate. Measured in number of tourist arrivals to the country, Norway has increased its market share in the European tourism market every year since 2002. In 2002, we had a market share of 0.76 pst. of the total number of tourist arrivals in Europe. In 2008, we had a market share of 0.91 pst. In other words, Norwegian tourism has seen positive developments in recent years compared to other countries in our part of the world. That said, Norway experienced a decline of 8 pst in the period January to November last year. in the number of days spent by foreign tourists. To some extent, this has been compensated by the fact that the number of Norwegian tourists in Norway reached its highest level in the summer of 2009. The total number of guest days, from both Norwegian and foreign guests, appears to have decreased by 2 pst. last year. The picture of summer in the Norwegian travel industry is very complex. Parts of the country, like the Helgeland coast, have experienced their best summer ever, while other parts of the country, such as parts of Fjord-Norway, have seen a decline, especially from the markets that have been most hit by the financial crisis, such as the United States and the United Kingdom. For the year ahead, the latest projections from Innovation Norway indicate an increase of between 1 and 3 pst. in the number of guests to Norway. Despite uncertainty, there is a basis for a cautious optimism ahead of the year ahead of us. Foreign tourists represent one third of the visitor days in Norway in one year, and it is important that we work actively to attract more foreign tourists in 2010. In the coming year, we are the organizer of a number of major events, such as the Melodi Grand Prix Final in Oslo in May and the Ski World Cup in February 2011. These are valuable opportunities to profile Norway as a destination, and we must take full advantage of this. To help raise awareness of Norway as a travel destination, we allocated more than ever over the current year’s government budget: 250 million. SEK to the work of the Norwegian Travel Life in Innovation. First of all, this is about the marketing of Norway abroad. However, marketing is more than just marketing campaigns on boards abroad. Well, it is so important that we accept the tourists who have already chosen to leave in Norway, in as good a way as possible. Tourists who are satisfied with the Norwegians' entertainment are happy to come back and talk hot about their vacation to friends and acquaintances, which in turn generates new travelers. Getting more travellers to Norway is also being done by being able to offer new and even better travel life products. The innovation and development of comprehensive package solutions in the tourism industry is therefore an area of activity, including: through four pilot projects we launched in this area in September 2009. Similarly, there is much to be done to develop a more sustainable travel life in Norway. In this area, too, there are separate pilot projects. At the beginning of February, Innovation Norway will provide a report with proposals for measures to make the Norwegian tourism industry even more sustainable. The government also has great expectations that the appointment in June 2009 of a Norwegian Centre of Expertise in Travel Life, NCE Tourism – Fjord Norway, will result in new knowledge of product development and forms of cooperation in the tourism industry. We want to make it easier for those who want to leave in Norway to find out and order what we have to offer. This is why a national booking solution, a cooperation project between the tourism industry and the public sector, is now working to make as much as possible of the Norwegian tourism industry available through the website visitnorway.com. I want to be a listening food and trade minister. In order to ensure good contact between the different industries and the department, I have initiated a series of meetings with key business actors, both in the ministry and around the country. Strategic advice on travel life is an important body to ensure good dialogue with operators in the tourism industry. There are 16 representatives from all over the industry who are to be met two to three times a year. I aim to hold the next meeting of the Strategic Council for Travel Life in February or March. As pointed out here, it is, like other industries, so that several departments are responsible for matters which constitute the framework conditions for the tourism industry. Good contact between ministries and proper balancing for different reasons is an important challenge. Among the issues mentioned is the main responsibility for infrastructure in the Ministry of Transport, for taxes and charges at the Ministry of Finance and for the planning and regulatory processes of the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has the primary responsibility for coordinating policy towards the tourism industry, and we engage in dialogue with relevant departments where necessary. In most cases, there are different interests inside the picture. The Storting representative Bredvold asked earlier in Stortinget’s Question Time about the conditions of signage to industrial activities along the Norwegian roads. In this case, consideration of the industry’s need for marketing by clearly signposting may conflict with traffic and safety considerations. In that case, safety reasons and limitation of information to the absolute necessary count are more important than giving all types of business the opportunity to set up referral plates along the relevant road sections. The aim must be to strike a good balance between the different considerations. The fact that Norway has steadily taken up market shares in the European tourism market in the last seven years indicates that the Norwegian framework conditions are competitive. At the same time, it is important that we work continuously to improve these in the areas that are possible. The national tourism strategy ‘Valueful experiences’ launched two years ago, in December 2007, was developed in close cooperation with the tourism industry. This strategy provided a course to facilitate greater value creation and profitability for the tourism industry. A progress report on the activities of this strategy was prepared last autumn in September 2009. It is important that we continue to implement the actions of the strategy and ensure and maintain the results that have already been achieved. At the same time, we will build on this strategy and look at new measures. Last spring and autumn, my predecessors have two working groups consisting of economic operators such as: on measures to promote more holistic thinking in travel and how we can better facilitate more full-year jobs. Several of these measures have started to work on. Norway is a unique destination. We have a fantastic nature. We have a lot of culture, as Bredvold points out. The link between this and a competitive, productive and innovative tourism industry can provide the basis for many viable jobs, not least in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e370	I thank the Council of State for a meaningful article, which referred to a lot. But the industry is asking for something to happen, and that it happens rather quickly, because the development in 2009 is very little positive. It shows a decline, so something has to happen. As I said in my post, there are many things you can do, including: When it comes to simplifying laws and regulations, perhaps looking at taxes and taxes, a little about traffic — and this with signage, as the Council of State was talking about. There's a lot of things you can do. As I said, I came to the Travel Life Fair, and I was not alone to stop at the stand of Dalarna in Sweden, where there was a snowmobile. Something as simple as saying yes to driving snowmobiles in Norway on suitable and approved runs will help us to develop a product that will be exciting for the group that wants it, and it is a large group. It is clear that Norway is competing with other countries. As you probably saw in some newspapers this weekend, there are now campaign prices on destinations. You can travel cheaply almost the world – in one case a trip for $1,798, and if you have children, it only costs $1 to bring the child if it is under 11, and then the flight is included. Of course, it'll be cheap. If you spend $1,798 in Norway, you don't get far, and it's not safe to stay that many hours for that either. So we're competing with other countries that can offer unique products at a reasonable price. We really have something to fight against, and then we have to take advantage of the opportunities Norway has. I repeat once again with snowmobiles, as it is so easy just to say yes to suitable spoons. Why don't we do that? Otherwise, a lot happens, as the council said, but travel life does a lot by itself. For example, the neighborhood of Hedmark is called Värmland. There is now a cooperation between Värmland and Hedmark to improve travel life, because it is clear that we can cooperate with competitors as well. We can cooperate with competitors in Norway, but we can also cooperate with other countries – in this case Sweden. When you have a good product, and the neighbor has a good product – perhaps with some other things – and you sew it together, it becomes a unique product like many countries demand, among other things. People who come from the United States. There are many people who have a lot of money, and it is clear that we have to get them to Norway. I also mentioned the residential tourists. It is not certain that they are spending as much money as those who come on a charter trip. I'm asking for more from the Minister of Industry. I have faith that the Minister of Industry will do so, but something has to happen quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e385	The interpellant and I at least share an optimism that we can get it done. That shows the numbers as well – over the last seven to eight years we have succeeded. We've increased our market shares. Now there is no doubt that there are many countries to which you can travel that offer lower labour costs than what we have. We can never compete with poor countries with low wage costs, simply because the level of pay in Norway is what shows our standard of living. We want to maintain a high standard of living. The more important it is that we are extra smart in developing special products and exclusive, different experiences that one can't find anywhere else than here, and not least that we're smart in terms of organization and productivity, as we are in other areas. That's exactly what makes it possible for us to keep our high standard of living. The Progress Party and the Government may have a slightly different view of snowmobile driving in general and its regulation, but in many places very good combinations have been found locally in driving industrial development, exploiting nature and at the same time taking care of nature. It is precisely that we take care of nature, that Norwegian nature is unaffected, that we have the wilderness that we have, that can make Norway a special destination. If we hadn't had the national parks, if we hadn't had the untouched fjords, if we hadn't had mountains and vastnesses that people can experience, Norway would also have been a poorer country as a tourist nation. I just think that the pristine nature and experience of being out in the wild is something that more and more in a modern civilization will demand, and that can lay the foundation for good travel. That doesn't mean you don't have to do activity here. On the contrary, it means doing a sustainable and environmentally friendly activity, hunting, fishing, experiences, etc., and then finding the balance between motorised vehicles – whether it's helicopter, snowmobile or driving – and taking care of the pristine nature. But here I think there are a lot of local fires and businessmen and businesses doing a great job, in collaboration with both local authorities and state representatives in the different states.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e394	I'm glad that the interpellant gives us the opportunity to talk about travel policy, because it's a theme that the Workers' Party and the Government are very concerned about. The travel effort has been like a red thread through all the state budgets that this government has presented, as one of five areas in which it is being put in particular. And as the Council of State said, over the year's budget, it's been granted more than ever — a total of 250 million. SEK to the work of the Norwegian Travel Life in Innovation. It's actually an increase of 150 pst. from the budget of the Bondevik Government in 2005. Travel life is among the fastest growing industries in the world, and the goal is for us from Norway to take our share in this growth. The interpellant makes it sound like Norwegian travel lives are quite sad and heavy, with a number of strange competition problems. There is no doubt that the international struggle for tourists is both tough and demanding, and that this industry too notes the international financial crisis. Unfortunately, the financial crisis has led to a decline in the number of international travellers worldwide, and we are serious about that. But in addition to having a government that is willing to bet on this particular industry, our country also has a number of natural assumptions for real success. Norway can offer a magnificent nature and very varied experiences. That's why it's important that we focus on marketing this in the big world. After all, the industry committee was on Senja last week. When you talk about travel lives and opportunities to create a bigger market than you have, and like to steal a little from your neighbor in the east, at least the tourism industry itself is on the verge of getting more of the market that's there. It's important. The tourism industry is particularly important for districts and for many communities around the country. This is actually the most important industry, which also gives positive ring-effects to other industries. We may not be able to compete on price, but we can win on quality – we can make sure that the products are good and of good quality. This is why the 2007 Travel Strategy, which was developed in close dialogue with industry, also points to the quality of the tourism strategy. The course pursued in this strategy is important. And the status report that was presented last year shows that the actors around are doing a good job of following up on the good actions on which it is based. I noticed that the Council of State said that he has initiated a series of meetings with central business actors both in the department and around the country to ensure good contact with the industry. It is reassuring in view of a continued offensive travel strategy by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e407	First of all, I will be allowed to thank the interpellant for addressing this matter today, so that we can give signals both about how we look at the stand, and not least about how we can get better in the future. We also greatly appreciate the answer given by the Council of State, which actually shows that he is interested in the theme. So, of course, you can have different approaches to the use of instruments, etc., but I think that by getting the debate started you can get a step further. I think everyone will take on board that Norway has had a formidable development in travel in the last 10 to 20 years. But then the question is, how can we continue to maintain this very trust and the influx to Norway – and to our travel life? These markets change over time. For example, who was it? eight to ten years ago, which saw Russia becoming a relatively large nation on the travel side of Norway? We now see that there are charter flights coming from Moscow into the Norwegian coast, people board buses and go back and forth. In fact, a good part comes from a relatively high-paying market, namely from Russia. What's important is to bet on diversity. It is important to focus on experience tourism, such as: rafting, mountain hiking, etc. Fishing tourism is another bit of this. Furthermore, we can offer a number of exclusive experiences, including: using helicopters, and snowmobiles, which were also within the interpellant. In fact, it is very important in large parts of Norway, to be able to compete with, among other things. what is happening in Sweden. Here we have up in the border area of Norway a total ban on snowmobile driving, except for a little use-by-home driving to cabins and possibly for business driving, while on the Swedish side there is much greater freedom. This means that they will automatically take advantage of that market. In addition, I think it is important that the Department takes a look at the strategy we are going to pursue in the coming years together with the industry in order to look at – as the Council of State also did – what strategy we are going to adopt in the coming years. I put big question marks at, among other things. what we do, for example. to China. The state councils have just been to China. China has become a major trading partner for Norway. We're not going to ignore China in terms of tourism. There are very many people in a population of China's size who have a good economy. These constitute a large market. I think that in the years to come, too, we should just take on board that it could be a big market for Norway as well. Then we have to have a strategy to be able to sell this and do it over time, so that we don't get over our heads as we see certain changes happen, and thus come back. What is involved in regulatory matters – construction, regulation, etc. – is also very important. Even I come from what is referred to as the living youth city. Of course, you could just imagine that Ålesund, which is on UNESCO's list of youth styles, is just going to be a place where we've set up buildings. But what's important is to have a combination of business and that people live there, while we can show what's special. Just live tourism, living rural communities and living cities are very important. At least I believe that in the future there are very few who come to Norway just to look at fjords and mountains. There are many people who do it today, but sooner or later we'll be able to get a change in those desires. What we're going to present, we also have to have a function in addition to being a tourist destination. As far as cruise traffic is concerned, it is one of the most important industries in Norway. Regarding framework conditions: Norway introduced the NOx fund, and then it is such that if a cruise boat, for example: enter Bergen and go along the coast, and it triggers the NOx charge. If the boat is going on a Baltic cruise — i.e. it is only to enter Oslo port before it enters the Baltic Sea – it is exempted. This is with respect to notifying a distortion of competition in relation to the vessels that are going to go along the coast. Of course, you can sign up for the NOx fund, but it turns out that not everyone does. It's important that we have a strategy for how we can get better. I also hope that travel life can become part of the business life initiative, so that innovation can also be applied to Norway for marketing products, not just for product development products.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e435	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Bredvold, for bringing up again with the interpellation the debate on the many challenges and opportunities of the tourism industry. This is an industry that has also been hard hit by the financial crisis, as both the inter-pellant and the state councils pointed out in their interventions. The last time the Storting debated the challenges in travel life was in 2008, when the Right at Torbjørn Hansen promoted a similar interaction. Since then, the industry has received very little centralized drag, which I was also confirmed by the operators in the tourism industry at the conference «New roads» in times of turmoil. The conference was held in Geiranger on 1 and 2 December last year, and the main theme of the conference was: Theme-based travel with a focus on experiences as an important tool for getting longer seasons for travel in Norway. The tourism industry grew well after the Bondevik II government presented a travel action plan in 2005, with subsequent proposals for funding in the 2006 budget. The sitting government already pointed out in Soria Moria I on travel life as one of five strategic industries on which it was to bet. So far there has been a lot of talk and little action, without taking the necessary political action to enable the industry, especially in the districts, to be able to invest in extended seasons and more year-round tourism. At the conference in Geiranger, particular attention was paid to still poor interaction and disadvantage by the fact that the framework conditions are administered by several departments. I registered that the Council of State referred to better dialogue between the departments, but I have to say that I do not feel quite sure that such dialogue between departments will work well enough, at least not so long as the industry does not feel that it has had any improvement in that area. Former Minister of Industry Børge Brende saw the challenges, and he therefore launched himself as the country's first Travel Life Council. I hope that the Council of State will now ensure that we get a travel life where responsibility is more concentrated under one umbrella. This is done in other countries, and so should we in Norway. The challenges of organising more full-time tourism were also central to the 2008 interpellation debate, when the Council of State then asked: ‘How and when will the Government facilitate increased value creation and several full-year jobs in the Norwegian tourism industry?’ Then you can ask yourself, ‘What has happened since then? Well, the government has waived responsibility for important roads and ferry routes in the districts of lukewarm county municipalities, with a wish for Christmas and a good new year! The key to the success of establishing more full-time tourism is to have safe, good all-year open roads as well as to be able to offer more high-quality experiences throughout the year. An important tool will be to remove hopeless regulation and to open up spaces for more additional industries in agriculture, thus contributing to the strengthening of the industry. Both of these instruments are important contributions to creating activity and housing in the districts. The government often talks a lot about "light in the house". Priority No 1 must therefore continue to bring several all-yearly open roads to the country’s tourist lighthouse. It is important to raise the lighthouses, because when it rains on the priest – yes, it also drips on the clock. Seasonal extension and full-time tourism in connection with our many travel-life lighthouses are important and necessary for the positive development of all the small surrounding destinations. Only then do we get the «light in the house». A good example that cannot be mentioned too often is Geiranger–Eidsdal – a bare road map into the Geiranger World Heritage Site, where there is also very little capacity on the Eidsdal–Linge ferry. Overall, road problems constitute a major bottleneck that contributes to harming tourism throughout the county. We have to stop resting on the status we have, that Norway and Norwegian fjords are the best destinations in the world. Winter-ridden and rascal roads, and thus considerable uncertainty about whether tourists arrive or not, are not easy to sell. Therefore, orders are often cancelled, with large losses and to the detriment of businesses. The conference in Geiranger also called for more tourist facts. There was too much vision in relation to whether the tourists actually come back, and how much money they might spend. Together with a strong wish for national contributions to seasonal extension and more factual information, sustainability was also central to the conference. How, then, do we get a sustainable tourism industry? Well, then we have to give the industry good framework conditions in general... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e463	Unfortunately, speaking time is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e466	Then I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e471	Travel life is a very important industry, not least for areas that have weak employment and are often threatened by relocation. Travel nutrition is at the same time one of the industries that are important for the whole country, from north to south. The Industry Committee has just been in Troms and has seen the importance of tourism for it. Travel industries cover the whole spectrum, from the specialised measures that can be good at feeding the large industrial stakes with great ambitions for employment. Far south in my state, we have a lot of the same situation. Travel is a central part of the business structure in Agder. In the middle and inner towns of Agder, travel life is entirely decisive for busses. The special feature of tourism is that it very often exists in interaction with other industries and public activities. A large part of the tourist industry depends on living areas and a living cultural landscape. This is why agricultural policy is also important for tourism and tourism. The parties that will tear down the economic foundation of agriculture will also weaken the basis of tourism. Travel industry is becoming increasingly dependent on being able to offer something in addition to travel and accommodation. Cultural history, historical monuments, special nature and activities related to the locality are included as a central part of the product – if one is to reach the paying audience and the eligible customers. Some municipalities have taken the consequences of it and placed travel life in the same establishment as culture. Culture, architecture and outdoor planning are also central to tourism. We increasingly see overnight capacity being placed close to strong cultural institutions. Both individuals, travel companies and businesses would like something more than overnight and food and drink. A cultural offer is what often makes the difference between choosing a city in Norway and choosing a city in another place. Culture-based industries are becoming an important part of employment here too. There is a great potential for interaction between tourism and culture-based industries, including those living in the digital space. The festivals are just one example. Profiling through digital media also attracts tourists to local supply. As a curiosity, I can see that there were students from Italy who came to the University of Agder to learn Norwegian because Norway had landed for heavy metal. If we are to have a robust and profitable travel life, it is important to have a broad perspective on the challenges we face. Travel policy must be seen in the context of other industrial policies, but must also be seen in the context of cultural policy and spatial planning. So those parties that don't take culture and agriculture seriously don't take travel life seriously either.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e487	I'm proud to be part of a party and a government that is highly committed to travel life. I also noticed that the representative Bredvold has faith in the Council of State Giske and the Government's commitment to travel life. The travel industry today accounts for about 4 pst. of gross domestic product and about 7 pst. of total employment in Norway. In Northern Norway, the tourism industry employs more people than the fishing industry and agriculture as a whole. According to the NHO Travel Life Statistics in North Norway from March 2009, the tourism industry employs around 18 300 people in the three northernmost counties, meaning that just under every 10 workers work in travel life. This shows that tourism is a key industry in many communities in Norway. I had the pleasure of attending the tourism conference ‘North of the South’ last week together with several people in this room. Just after we had participated there, the Committee met with the tourism industry in Troms – a meeting where travel life was an important topic, and where we also met very many actors who are enthusiastic on behalf of the industry. Direct flights from abroad were an important theme as well as further investment in the construction of travel life, both in small scale and in industry. In the Central Party, we believe that the tourism industry needs a lift of skills to ensure further growth and employment. The need for skilled labour will increase because tourists will require knowledge-rich employees. This means getting to school early, for example. in higher education, must have courses of study that educate people into a life of travel and that also prepare the growing family for a further investment in travel. The representative of Bredvold could not have realised that today’s government has strengthened the commitment to travel life for 2010 as a follow-up to the national travel life strategy launched in 2007. Since 2005, appropriations for the work of Innovation in Norway have increased from 100 million. SEK in 2005 to SEK 250 million. kr in year. This is a solid bet that the red-green government has made. In addition, the government has invested 50 million. kr for the establishment of the Nordic travel companies. This is going to have an effect. In the Center Party, we are committed to following up this effort further. I would also like to show that this government has the time to bet on culture. I think that perhaps the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve could have mentioned in his post. I will end with a recital that the Progress Party is unable to take over. For tourism, the cultural landscape is important in order to create attractive tourism products throughout the country. Active agricultural policy is therefore also important for travel. For example, the Hurtigruten has in its marketing focus on the experience of their guests of a living cultural landscape and of active local communities along the coast. Norway needs an active outing industry to develop tourism as an industry in the district of Norway. The Central Party is working towards an agricultural and fisheries policy that further develops the tourism industry by taking care of the cultural landscape and facilitating food and cultural experiences based on local food traditions. The promotion party wants to facilitate an agriculture that will only survive on the areas that yield the best yields, i.e. a Norway without agriculture in the most beautiful destinations of our travel life. Here it will grow again, and the tourists will meet a wall of forest and forest. Does the Advancement Party really believe that this is a commodity that will sell? Without a living agriculture throughout the country, we will not lay the foundation for a sustainable and forward-looking travel life.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e508	First, thank you to the interpellant. This is an important theme because travel life in large parts of the country is the very bearer and a prerequisite for local activity and residence. Governments also had a thorough, instructive and informative article. For travel life is a forward-looking industry that has a greater potential than has so far been able to exploit – it has shown previous contributions to the debate. The Christian People's Party, together with the other opposition parties, has put forward proposals for its own big message on travel life, and the time has come to get such a message. Fjord Norway is the locomotive of Norwegian travel life activities, and it is positive that we have got a new NCE in this area, but Fjord Norway experienced a severe setback in 2009. The failure is 10 p.m., and the decline is explained by the industry with the financial crisis and lack of marketing resources. We also see this in the hotel business where particularly foreign overnight stays went down by a total of 6 pst. It is the combination of fjords and mountains, settlements and farms that make the Norwegian landscape very different and exciting. I don't think as the representative Nesvik that this will change so much in the future. Much of the basis for Norwegian travel life lies just in nature, and this is where Norway has a lot to offer. But we must focus not only on the benefits of travellers, but also on the impact of travel on people being visited, and on the values of nature, culture and communities. The importance of travel needs to be taken into account through local, regional and national plans and through protection measures for natural areas. Sustainable and profitable business must be the objective. It is also necessary to provide specific incentives for travel businesses to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the programme for an additional action and to conclude an agreement with Enova. Traditional thinking to succeed is volume thinking. It became clear when the nutrition committee visited Zålselv Fjellandsby. There was volume in focus. In many cases, this is true, but the competitive advantage of many Norwegian travel lives is high quality of collective goods, such as large-scale nature and a living natural landscape in a quiet environment – without pollution. In order to avoid too much pressure on nature, some travel businesses have invested more on the shoulder seasons, spring and harvest, as well as on offering several alternative tours and experiences within the same area. It's very positive. In its alternative budget, the Christian People's Party has strengthened Innovation Norway by increasing access to risk capital to secure funding for new projects in small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, we will increase access to private venture capital in start-ups by ensuring framework conditions for private investors. Too much administrative burdens have been imposed on business. This costs about SEK 57 billion a year and particularly affects those over 99 pst. by small or medium-sized enterprises. Many of these businesses are in travel. It is important that these enterprises use the time for their core activities rather than become involved in ever-increasingly new laws and regulations, which weigh them down and bottle them up for competitiveness. We have asked for a big message and hope that the government will take an initiative in the near future. We need a thorough review of an industry that, for many societies, is the very bearer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e527	I would also like to thank the interpellant for travelling this important topic. With all its natural resources, Norway has a unique opportunity to sell itself as a tourist country. It is therefore important that we, as politicians, make the best possible arrangements for this to happen. Unfortunately, statistics from Innovation Norway/Travel Life show that, for example: The hotels in the West have had a decline of 14 pst. in foreign overnight stays during the first months of 2009, while there has been a reduction in professional Norwegian guests. This is a development that should be reversed. In my private, small study, I find several factors that are important for a well-functioning tourist industry. It is primarily about better infrastructure, changes in property tax and inheritance tax, more flexibility in working time policy and a clearer profile in the marketing of Norway as a tourist destination. The infrastructure in Norway is a challenge: roads, airports, ports and trains must work. In many cases, low-traffic airports and unadapted service times are of great handicap when competing at national level for major events. The predictability of public communications needs to be improved. Travel life products must be sold within one to two years in advance. Then it is not good enough that the carriers set the routes for one year at a time, and that they are completed three to four months before they are put into effect. Route termination also creates problems. A rapporteur in Hardanger could tell us about a 60 pst reduction. in the number of guests from the United Kingdom when a boat route directly to Bergen disappeared this season. For understandable reasons, many people in the tourism industry point to the tax system, especially the property tax. Most of the family hotels are struggling with this treasure. The reason is that most hotels represent large values, while the results vary considerably from year to year. The taxes on wealth result in a refusal to make new investments in physical buildings, because this in turn will increase the value of the building and the wealth tax will make a new jump. It is a negative spiral for a hotel industry that sorely needs construction investment. These challenges are one of several reasons why the Left will gradually reduce and eventually eliminate the wealth tax altogether. The inheritance fee also helps to make it less attractive to take over a family business. It seems strange that a post-generation fee is to be paid to the state when you are involved in creating jobs and strengthening local communities. The inheritance fee puts a large part of the smaller hotel industries in a further bickering, and it is a fee that, in the view of the Left, has to be removed. Travel life is a seasonal diet. Then it's important to have temporary employment opportunities. Therefore, the Left will facilitate this by simplifying and softening the provisions of the Working Environment Act. The hotel industry often struggles to find competent staff. The reasons can be many. A weak financial position often means that the level of wages and salaries cannot compete with other industries. In addition, the apprenticeship system is weakened by the fact that it has been made more theoretical. I was informed that the contact between the school, the student and the company is now worse than before. The left answer to this is that we will reintroduce practical optional subjects between 8 and 10. class step. We want exemptions from the employer’s fee and, in general, a much stronger contact between school and local business. When discussing travel life in Norway, the millions we spend on general marketing must be evaluated. Innovation in Norway shall be evaluated. In this regard, you have to look at how competent they are on the market. I get feedback that the marketing is little targeted, low performance driven and has no clear profile other than to sell natural experiences. This should be seen in the context of the evaluation. The tourism industry itself has many good ideas about how marketing aid should be used, including: that it should go more to the individual enterprise. I would like to support this. The private initiative is creative, vital and has a self-interest in succeeding. In this way, each enterprise will be able to tailor good marketing packages and generate more tourists to visit Norway. Finally, I would like to point out that much can be done in legislation relating to local production, distribution and serving food and drink. In the view of the Left, investing in local food and drink production is crucial for future agriculture and business. Finally, I could have also talked a lot about simplification in reporting, form and regulation, but I will come back to that in connection with the proposal for a representative, Document 8:15 S, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e555	I think this has been a good day for travel and for the industries that have something to do with travel and tourism. I want to thank the Council of State and representatives for good posts, and I don't just think, but know that we have a common goal, but that the way there, and how long it takes, can be something different. Otherwise I registered that the Senterpartiet and SV were the only ones who did not thank for this opportunity to discuss this important matter. I can interpret it in different ways, but I hope that travel and tourism are just as important to them as they are to all of us. Otherwise it's a lot to repeat, and one can also make new points, but it's not that many rows in three minutes. But this with simplification of laws and regulations, which have been discussed by many, is important. We've been talking about transportation, it's important, tourists need to have the opportunity to come forward, we've been talking about freedom of agriculture, about marketing, with increased subsidies and more liberality, and maybe more focused, as mentioned here. We've talked about the fact that industry and tourism can go more hand in hand, and I repeat this with snowmobiles and other opportunities to get into nature, both for those who have the opportunity today, and for those who, for various reasons, may have a little more difficulty getting out. This industry is important. It employs approx. 160 000 – that's huge. It employs people in the districts, also women to a large extent, which is very positive, for in many places there is a need for women's jobs. The industry also employs many people outside the industry itself. 40 pst., as I said, of what tourists leave, it becomes different than the industry itself that gets. Otherwise, we'll be insecure in 2010. I hope the Council of State will take on board – he probably has – that 25 pst. they say they have lower booking numbers now than they had last year, and that's also 14 pst. which considers that they are experiencing liquidity problems during the spring. Otherwise I want to spend a few seconds on SV. I think it is sad that one should have that view of other parties, in this case my own party, that they do not take into account the woes of agriculture. It is precisely the Progress Party that wants to develop agriculture, by saying yes to agricultural tourism, for example, and the same goes for culture, of course. Otherwise, the representative from the Central Party said that we had not got the government to give more money, but that's what I said: ‘In addition, a great deal of marketing is needed, both to get Norwegians to leave in Norway and, most importantly, to get foreigners to come here. Here the Government has increased somewhat, but far from what the Progress Party has in its alternative draft budget.’ So we've registered it. I can't reach anymore, I see, so then I thank you for what has come up, and hope that we can still discuss this industry as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e579	When the Senterpartiet and SV in their posts did not give a warm thanks to the interpellant, it is of course because they are standing, as in other matters, behind the Council of State, so that we are gathered in the thank you to the interpellant to raise an important matter. That is a good point of what has been raised in the debate, that travel opportunities in Norway depend on what kind of country we can present, and in my four years as Minister of Culture, I did not see warm support for the strong commitment to cultural activities of the Red-Green Government, of the Progress Party. The link between an active, living cultural life/cultural offer and travel life is becoming stronger and stronger. Traveling and experiencing things, more than looking at nature, participating in things, whether it's games, performances or festivals or whatever it is, creates a lot of ring-effects, and the hundreds of thousands we can support a Moldejazz or a Hovefestival or a theatre or other thing with, give up many times in tax revenue in terms of jobs, overnight stays, restaurant visits, shopping visits, etc. So here it is a strong link, which I would like the Progress Party to be more strongly supported. The same applies to agriculture. I think it would be sad to travel up in both the Gudbrand valley and the Østerdalen whose cultivated land had grown again, and the landscape so differently. This is an essential part of the travel strategy we have, that it's a living district Norway. Then there are certainly many things that we can agree on, namely that we must bet on the marketing of Norway, and we must bet on building networks between actors. We are characterised in Norway by the fact that we have many small businesses in the tourism industry — in some places consolidation can make sense, and in others networking can produce results. We see that, the destinations that really manage to work together – profiling themselves with a uniform profile, creating a product where tourists experience a seamless transition between the different elements that are needed for a successful stay, whether it's transport or accommodation or food or activity – are also the best. Then we need to develop special products adapted to a high-cost country, which is to be a high-cost country, because we want to have a high wage level, but which, at the same time, in the most efficient, productive way becomes competitive with good travel products. The right-wing representative referred to Mr Børge Brende, who declared himself Minister for Travel Life. I will also be, Minister of Travel Life – I will lift the travel life and not least be the catalyst that makes people work together, to meet, to contract, to see the opportunities we can get together, including here in the hall, with the opposition and good suggestions from the parties that are not in government, on how to develop Norwegian travel life. So I look forward to a good cooperation around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e597	President: Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e613	Access to the EU internal market is one of the prerequisites for ensuring the well-being of Norwegian society. Norway currently has access through the EEA Agreement, but it does not give us participation over all the laws and regulations adopted in the EU. Norwegian society is thus shaped by decisions taken in a political system where Norwegian voters are not represented. From some quarters, it was rightly claimed, and in my opinion, that our chosen exclusion weakens the fundamental democratic rights of Norwegian voters. The EU has recently adopted a ban on the sale of cell products. This has a negative impact on the Norwegian industry as well as Norwegian marine resource management. The Norwegian Government has been criticised for being too passive in this process. We're not going to spend all the world's time on this, but the sales case is at least a good example that we're not sitting at the table when issues that most concern us are being debated. The EU’s fisheries policy is of great importance for the management of our common fish stocks. Many of these fish stocks are likely to be migratory, perhaps due to climate change. In the debate on Norway’s fisheries agreements with other countries, the Right stressed the importance of having good agreements with the EU and other countries. We believe that this is so important that we would like to repeat the message in this debate. The EU now shows significant muscles towards Norway – by excluding Norway from mackerel fishing in the autumn, by not yet having a valid fisheries agreement with the EU, and by failing to make use of a licensing agreement pending the completion of the negotiations on fixed agreements. For those of us who have the heart of the fishing industry, the last year has shown the importance of the EU as a market for good life on the coast. The destruction of large markets and drastic falls in the price of cod are now bringing about major structural changes both in economic activity and in housing patterns. The Industry Committee was recently traveling in Troms. There we were presented with many and concrete examples of how dependent we are on a good relationship with the EU. Market access, eco-labelling of products, tracing of origin down to each boat and quota agreements with the EU and third countries were some of the themes discussed. The EU is now in the process of reforming its fisheries policy. It shall enter into force in 2013. The process is comprehensive, and the EU warns that the objective is far-reaching changes in its fisheries policy. The Maritime Affairs and Fisheries Commissioner states that the EU does not reform for the reform but aims to create a modern policy based on the principles of simple and sustainable management. To help work, a Green Paper has been adopted, which has two objectives: one is to raise awareness of the challenges that exist. The second objective is to make the widest possible involvement in shaping the new policy. Clearly, the Green Paper is on the problem of sustainable management. This is also the area where the EU’s fisheries policy has rightly received the most criticism from the Norwegian team. The European Commission’s honest description of reality and clear self-criticism in relation to its own resource management give hope that a real reform can now be achieved so that the EU fisheries policy can become more in line with the good principles underlying the Norwegian management model. This requires, however, that all good forces contribute with political pressure and political input into the work, including the Norwegian government. I would therefore ask the Minister to provide information on what action she has taken in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e630	I would first like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing an important issue for Fisheries Norway, namely our relationship with the EU in the field of fisheries and, in particular, the EU's reform of the Common Fisheries Policy. Together, we manage important fish stocks in the North Sea and large pelagic populations. Therefore, the common fisheries policy in the EU is of great interest and importance to Norway as well. It is positive that the EU has taken the initiative in a comprehensive reform of its common fisheries policy. The European Commission published a so-called Green Paper on 22 April last year, after which it has had a broad consultation process. Norway was invited to comment on the issues raised in the Green Paper, and we made a major contribution to the European Commission last October. The Green Paper is comprehensive and addresses many important elements of modern fisheries management. Although Norway and the EU have different approaches in important areas, we still face the same challenges. It's about long-term, sustainable management. It is about reducing overcapacity that slowly suffocates the basis of profitable fishing vessels. And it's about building an industry that's on its own and taking responsibility for the harvesting of the community's resources. The Green Paper provides an open presentation of the current situation. There is no doubt that it is necessary to reform the common fisheries policy. In a situation where stocks are subject to excessive taxation and where the fishing fleet is much larger than the resources on which it is based, fundamental changes are necessary. We have undergone many of the same conversions in the Norwegian fishing industry, and therefore we hope that some of the ideas we are discussing in our response will be taken into account when designing and deciding the new policy. In the fisheries sector, formal cooperation between Norway and the EU dates back to 1980 through the annual fisheries agreement, where we negotiate the management of common stocks each year. It is a right and a duty we have, regardless of the common fisheries policy, and cooperation is extensive. For the common stocks in the North Sea, we have developed common management plans for sea, haze, herring and cod. The objective must be to achieve stability and high long-term yields from stocks, for the benefit of both consumers and fishermen. On the control side, Norway and the EU have also cooperated closely. In the pelagic sector, we have achieved a great deal. The EU is among our closest allies in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing – the so-called UUU fishing. Here we have taken important steps together and reached a milestone this fall, with the approval of a global port state agreement in the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). Another important contribution is the EU's own UUU regulation, which entered into force on 1 January 2010. These examples show the importance of close and trusting cooperation bilaterally, regionally and globally. A challenge in our joint management is the practice of discarding fish. While Norwegian fishermen are required to deliver all the fish they catch from the sea, EU fishermen must discard the fish again if they have fish on which they do not have a quota or are below the minimum target. I'll think that most people see that it doesn't make any sense to throw fish at the sea. Firstly, it makes the work of marine scientists difficult, and otherwise it is a waste of valuable resources. However, we have recorded that the EU's positions are changing, and that this is addressed in the Green Paper. The issue of drafts was very central to the negotiations on a 2009 allowance agreement and resulted in a number of measures to reduce the draft fisheries. Norway will continue to focus on this issue, and we hope that the reform will result in a draft ban. The draft issue was also a key issue in our input to the EU on the reform of the Common Fisheries Policy. In the recording, the Norwegian draft policy was thoroughly reviewed. Not only the reform, but also the continuous cooperation between Norway and the EU have of course implications for our industry. It's the totality that matters, and the areas that I've pointed to have combined as a result that we achieve a more sustainable management of the resources that we share and have a common responsibility for. It is only in that way that Norwegian fishermen will achieve long-term and profitable jobs. In terms of impact, in addition to our extensive contribution to the EU on the reform, we have also had a number of meetings where the issues have been discussed. But we are also affected by negotiations and consultations. One example is that in 2009, in cooperation with the EU, we established a system for opening and closing fishing grounds in the North Sea in order to protect small fish. I want us to continue to give priority to our fisheries cooperation with the EU, and we are now working towards an agreement with the Fisheries Committee in the European Parliament to present Norwegian views. I also hope to meet the new Fisheries Commissioner as soon as possible. In recent times, in our fisheries cooperation with the EU, we have experienced problems, which need to be solved in such a way that we can get back on track. I've already been to Stortinget, where mackerel and the EU have been the topic, so I shouldn't say much about it. We negotiated with the EU for many laps of the last harvest in order to reach a satisfactory fisheries agreement, but unfortunately we did not succeed in reaching an agreement. We are now in a situation without agreement, but we are actually going to meet again for new negotiations tomorrow. Clearly, the matter is serious. The fact that we are now without an agreement is not an easy decision to make, but we could not accept what was on the table. I can assure you that we will be working to reach an agreement that takes care of Norwegian interests. So a few words about the sales case, which the interpellant is also concerned about: it is in Stortinget that the extensive work that the authorities have done in the matter has been done on several occasions, both by my predecessor and by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am therefore not going to review the matter again. I just want to note that we started working in 2006 and that we have consistently promoted Norwegian interests at political level and at the level of office until the process was over in the Council and the European Parliament last spring. Now we're in a WTO lead. We held dispute resolution consultations with the EU in December, without bringing us closer to finding a solution. There is probably little to suggest that this matter will be resolved in dialogue with the EU. I do not exclude that it may be necessary to proceed with a WTO panel case, as we did in the salmon case. We've been using, and we've been through the WTO panel before. If the assumptions are in place, we'll assess whether we'll once again be able to use this tool to defend and take care of Norwegian interests. In the sales case, it is important to remember that the European Parliament and the Council have always wanted to hit the Canadian and Norwegian self-afraid stones. Our arguments about the importance of the self-governing industry and the importance of harvesting marine resources were not heard in the EU. It's a cross of thought for us, although it may not be particularly surprising in such a case with clear, emotional overtones. Finally, the fact that the EU has chosen to ignore Norwegian arguments in the sales case does not mean that it is impossible to influence the future EU fisheries policy. The sales case is a completely different matter from the disagreement on fisheries policy and quotas. The community of interests between Norway and the EU is also quite different. I therefore believe that our impact possibilities are good, and that it is not relevant to draw parallels between the sales case and our impact on the future EU fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e672	I would like to thank the Council of State for a supplementary answer. On 1 December 2009, the European Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries organised an open consultation in which they discussed the Green Paper and the new Common Fisheries Policy. There was a broad consensus here that there was a need to look at fisheries management, social conditions for fishermen, increased profitability and increased investment in knowledge. So the disagreement there did not exist in what kind of goals you had, but how you should achieve the goals – not knowing the political debate we sometimes have in Norway. With our experience of being abroad in the company, it is strange to note that no representatives of Norway found it timely to take the floor at this hearing. So there was an open hearing where Norway was also able to participate, but it was not possible to use that opportunity. The company showed us that the Norwegian government is not always involved in handling cases. After 1 December, the European Parliament has had greater influence. It will be even more important for Norway to get on the road early on matters of such importance as fishing, for example: On the right, there is a great deal of experience in having political partners that blink back their eyes and are more likely to think that the EU is not there. Therefore, allow me to ask the Council of State what changes she believes are necessary to ensure that we do not get on the heels of changing the EU’s fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e683	I would first like to be very honest and admit that I am of those who believe that we should definitely have a closer relationship with the European Union and have worked hard for it. It has not been heard by Norwegian voters, and then Norwegian voters are allowed to take the consequences that we are not represented around the tables where these decisions are made. As for the European Parliament and, if necessary, lack of interest in participating in open hearings there, I do not dare comment on that, but what I can say is that I had actually previously agreed to a meeting with the European Parliament, where I was allowed to come and present the Norwegian views again. Call it a review of what has been recorded earlier, but to me as a new councillor, it was a desire to get to it. Unfortunately, I was struck by what many others were hit by before Christmas, which is what is called flu-like symptoms, and then followed the Norwegian recommendations to keep me at home for eight days. Unfortunately, it happened just at the time I was supposed to be in Brussels and mentioned this. But, as I said, I would like to take every opportunity to have a meeting in Parliament and with the Commissioner. I believe that good arguments over and over again from the Norwegian side are what goes in. In fact, rational reasoning seems to me to be being listened to, and Norway has a very good story to point to. We have had the same discussions in Norway, if not of equal seriousness, because fortunately we have not allowed things to go as far as what you can see they have done in the European Union. But it's just repeating and repeating and using all the possibilities we have. I can also mention that we in the Government have had an EEA seminar on that very matter in order to be able to go to the European Union as a government and argue for our affairs. Then Brussels, Parliament and the Commission will be important, but also the Member States, and there we will continue the nitite work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e694	When the EU develops new fisheries policy, it is important that we follow along. That's why a very important matter the interpellant is dealing with here today. As a significant fishing nation, we have responsibility for and interests in the development of the international community’s relationship with the protection and use of the sea. An important key in this regard is, of course, ensuring the most sustainable management possible. Norway shares important fishing resources with the EU, and for many years there has been a major challenge in administrative cooperation between Norway and the EU that we manage these fish stocks in the North Sea so differently. The EU has a fleet that is far too large in relation to the resources available, and here the EU has a lot to learn from the active and conscious structural policies we have pursued from Norway. Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing — so-called UUU fishing — is a significant challenge for the sustainable management of fish resources. Norway is an active driver in the fight against UUU fishing, and I am proud of the great effort the Government has made in this important work. In this area, the EU is among our closest allies, and we have close cooperation on the control side. However, what the Minister for Fisheries had to say is an area in which we have major challenges in our joint fisheries management, drafts. While, as I have said, the EU has a draft directive and obliges its fishermen to discard fish on which they do not have a quota or which is below the minimum, we are doing the opposite, namely to ban discards of fish. In this area too, the EU has no doubt much to learn from Norway. The Norwegian draft ban is the core element of our fisheries management, and we have over several years built up important measures around this ban to make it effective. I have recorded that we have provided a comprehensive input to the Green Paper from the Norwegian side, where we have, among other things. highlights the problems of discarding fish. I am pleased with the signals that the EU now seems to take this seriously. I am optimistic about the work that is now in the process of reforming the EU's fisheries policy. It is very important that we have close and good dialogue with these countries and give priority to fisheries cooperation with the European Union in the coming months. Together with the interpellant, I will attend a meeting on the work of the EU's new fisheries policy at the meeting of the Nordic Council in Copenhagen at the end of this month.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e709	First of all, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for raising this debate, because I believe that the harvest we have set behind us may have shown us a turn around the level of conflict in the fisheries policy between Norway and the EU. I hope it's not a turn. But when we saw what happened in the mackerel battle south of 62 degrees and east of 4 degrees, where Norwegian fishermen, despite the fact that we had an obvious agreement to be able to fish the Norwegian mackerel quota there, was thrown out of that field, it shows that we could possibly have conflicts in the future as well. It is also in many ways the mackerel case that means that we do not have the final fisheries agreement in place. It has been shown that in the case of herring and other species of fish, we have a consensus at the bottom in many ways, but then you refer to the mackerel battle, and there is such a disagreement that the final framework has not been put in place. I think it's time we put all of the cloths to put it in place. I hope that the Minister for Fisheries, through the use of his people and in the negotiations to be resumed tomorrow, as far as I understood the Minister for Fisheries, can reach an agreement. I feel in many ways that the interpellant is dealing with the relationship with the EU. Are we good enough, or can we get better at setting up a framework here? If we choose to continue on the path we have gone up to now, that is, that we do not take in the fact that we have got a Lisbon Treaty in place within the EU, where the European Parliament will become much more important in the future than it has been today, and if our working method does not take it into account and the way it works, we will see many conflicts in the future. Speaking of the Cell Regulation: it is in many ways the change that happened in Parliament, which caused us to have that conflict related to the cell bite, because the original proposal relating to the ban on the placing on the market of cell products was, to a large extent, not the most harmful to Norway. But the change that was made after it was discussed in Parliament, and the opportunity that Parliament has to make changes to regulations, is what makes us have the problem that we actually have. Then we can also say that we believe that this is not EEA-relevant. However, it is not useful when the EU itself writes in the text that the Cell Phone Regulation is EEA-relevant. What's happening is that we're going to fall back all the time, and that we have to work from behind and forward, and that's a lot heavier than if we had done the job in advance. It is not going to get away from the fact that there has been criticism that we came too late into that matter. We can refer to when we started working on it, but it doesn't help if you've worked on the wrong track. That is what has actually been done, because it was not taken into account that there could be changes in Parliament. I would also like to say the following – it is possible that there is a little bit of interest, because the matter is being dealt with, possibly in the Presidency: as the European Parliament will become so important in the future, I hope that important contributions can be made to this House in assessing how the Storting may be represented in a way in relation to its parliamentary colleagues in Brussels. I think that's going to be important. That dialogue is entirely in place, and it is therefore gratifying that both the EFTA and EEA delegations, together with some here from the house, should meet with those from the Fisheries Commission of the European Union in the near future. Let's hope that it can be the first step on the way to just getting a better dialogue in place. I hope that there will be an even wider debate in both the Government and the Grand Duchy about how the Treaty of Lisbon can make a difference in the way it works, because it will be cross-political, and also cross-border, much more important than it has been in the past. Now I'm not going to go up an EU debate here, it's up to several parties that can be relatively divided into that case. But that we would have been in a different situation if we had been a member is quite obvious. Then you might have been able to talk and discuss and not just stand on the outside and put in. I hope that, both in this house and elsewhere, you can make an opinion and put in place a new strategy for how we can get into processes more quickly in order to participate and contribute towards the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e730	All the favors of the interpellant, which in the interpellation takes up a lot of things. But what is common, and what he really addresses, is the way in which the Norwegian authorities work in relation to the EU authorities. That's what this is about. Then I am pleased to note that both the inter-pellant and the councils agree that if we had been a member of the EU, as we say in the Right, or had a better approach to the EU, as is said in the EU-friendly circles of the Government – if I interpret the Council of State correctly, this would have been easier. That is quite right, because we agree on a lot and on what we need to pay attention to the EU, not least in terms of fisheries: there are two things: that there is profitability in what is going on and that there is sustainability in the fisheries policy we are going to have. Then we have a lot in common with the European Union, and we should be able to achieve good results. But it often turns out, and it's been done lately, for example. in the battle against mackerel, that the weight in the EU is often reflected in our disfavor. So the state council says in its statement that the sales case is something completely different, because the interpellant has taken it as its starting point. I disagree because I think that the sales case illustrates very well the way in which we work in the European Union, and that we become too small, and that we are not moving forward. So you could say that self-anxiety might be marginal, but I think it shows some of the way of working. A few weeks ago, the Foreign Minister answered a question from the representative Ivar Kristiansen from the Right when they discussed this. The Minister for Foreign Affairs replied that these dispute resolution consultations have now been held in the WTO, etc., that this will continue and that the Cell Phone Regulation has entered into force but that the exemption itself will enter into force on 20 August. So the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and so far the Council of State today, says that these consultations are just the first step, and that they will later be discussed in a dispute resolution panel. That's where I think there's something. If you go on with a panel case – as we did in the salmon case, on which the Council of State is involved – the Government believes that you can get there. But then it is said that this will come back to ‘after the evaluation’. That's when I'm wondering, because I think this is urgent. I believe August 20 is a deadline for this. The Minister for Foreign Affairs rightly said that there would be parallel work to influence the EU. But first of all, you have to get this job on the panel – you have to drive on, so you don't push it all out, and then the deadline comes August 20th. And when it's on the table, at least it's my opinion – without being an expert – that then things are a lot more difficult to achieve. The self-employed person is small, but therefore important in this context. I think it's right, as the representative Nesvik said before me, that there's a feeling that you're too late out of the start blocks of this process. It's very important to point out. I think it's very important for the Council of State to take it further into the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e743	The interpellant addresses an important and topical theme. Topmost: the world's oceans may be running out of fish. This is frightening, but almost nine out of ten fish stocks in the EU are overfished, according to a recent report by the European Commission. If we compare the size of large fish in the sea, such as cod, seel, fly and tuna, to what was the level in 1950, it could only be 10 pst. again. This is dramatic for the environment and for fishermen around the world, not least in poor countries, where alternative feeding routes may be few. The world therefore needs more than ever a long-term and sustainable fisheries policy. Unfortunately, instead of contributing positively, the EU is one of the worst. An overall nutrition committee at Stortinget says in the 2009 state budget setting: ‘The Committee points out that the EU’s Common Fisheries Policy has consistently been characterised by high, non-reliable quotas, weak regulation and inadequate enforcement and penalties. [[...]] [[...]] [[...]] the result is a failure of stocks in EU waters and that the EU enters into fisheries agreements between, inter alia, poor countries under conditions that are particularly unfortunate both in a development and marine environment perspective.» The EU has launched a process of reform of the CFP and has developed a Green Paper in this respect. The EU adopted a common fisheries policy as early as 1972, but the EU granted a transitional regime for ten years for so-called remaining issues. On 1 January 1983 the policy was to begin to work. However, it was wrong. The EU decided to grant itself a 20-year transitional period, with a Mid-Term Review in 1993. Nor by the end of 2002, had the Member States agreed on the details of the EU Mechanism. Again, the EU had to extend the transitional period this time until 2013. Documents are now being prepared to form the basis for the new policy. Two important documents have been issued in 2007 and 2009 respectively, which tell which directions the trend is now moving in. The EU’s action in the follow-up to the reform process will have an impact on Norway, among others. as regards the management of common fish stocks. The main challenge is to improve the pattern of taxation in the North Sea. The regulation on the landing of fish has not been harmonised between Norway and the EU, and for Norway it is important, in the view of the Christian People's Party, to have an impact on a regime whereby today's draft directives in the EU are replaced by a general landing obligation, as is the case in Norway. This was taken up by the Council of State in its article. The EU's draft policy means that large quantities of fish are thrown out and thus not recorded in catch statistics. This practice hampers the proper management of the common stocks. Norway has recorded on the Green Paper on reform of the CFP. Norway’s experience with structural measures for the fishing fleet in order to adapt fishing capacity to the fishing grounds is important in this context. The same applies to the introduction of landing obligations and other measures to reduce discards. The EU-Norway macro-conflict, which several have been involved, needs to be addressed to ensure that Norwegian fishermen are taken into account. The EU's action is an unacceptable breach of the bilateral agreement with Norway, and the Government must consider using all instruments against the EU, including, as the Christian People's Party has stated earlier, the closure of EU fishing boats from Norwegian zones. It's positive that the interpellant picks up the harness case. The taxation of marine mammals in our marine areas is very low in relation to the populations. At the same time, we know that marine mammals consume hundreds of thousands of tons of commercially important fish species, and that the self-anxiety industry is struggling economically. Therefore, it is very unfortunate that the EU has adopted a ban on the sale of cell products. Norway has to play an active role in getting the widest possible international acceptance for Norwegian marine mammals management.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e765	I thank you for the comments. I said in my speech that the Right has a long experience of having political partners who blink again and imagine that the EU does not exist. The absence of the SV and the Central Party in this debate may actually indicate that the Council of State has similar comrades. It is worrying that such an important question does not interest the two most profiled no-parts in Stortinget. The Green Paper to the European Union on fisheries policy can be a reliable reading. However, we should also bear in mind that, from the EU, Norway is often produced as a bunch of stuffed originals. There is no doubt that the objectives are agreed in the EU, but the funds are not agreed at all. That's why it's so important that we follow the process closely. That is why it is so important that we follow the EU and constantly try to influence the process in our direction. Too very quickly, things that we don't want to be earned in the future can appear. That shows us the example of the sales case in a good way. Therefore, it is reassuring that the Council of State has made it clear that it is working closely. But it will also be important to point out that for Norway as a fishing nation, it is essential that we participate in this, and it is important to note that two of the three government parties turn their backs on such a debate as this. It must be followed from the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e774	Once again, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for bringing up an important debate with many important aspects. We've been to some of them, not all of them. But the fact that the Norwegian Parliament is committed to it is in itself important, and I appreciate it very much. It can then be seen that we in the fisheries policy and in the cooperation between Norway and the EU are seen as tiny – and yes, we are small. Norway is a small country in Europe, and we are a small country in the world. But as far as fisheries policy is concerned, we are a major act. We must not underestimate that. We should rather talk more about what a great power we are. Because when it comes to negotiations, we negotiate as equivalent partners. We have a good story to have with us, and we have good results to show. That means that we are, in fact, also influenced by the cooperation that these negotiations give us. But now it's like we're not in the vote. That's where we're outside. Of course, we can use the opportunities we have through good friends that are within – they are used all the time. In fact, the EU itself has to decide what measures they themselves will take. We manage a lot of resources, and that's our main task. We've come a long way, but it's also a long-term job. We're using all the powers of influence, including within the European Parliament. But I have to add that I think it is interesting that there are new ways of discussing and influencing Parliament. So two words about the harness. We can discuss whether or not it's a common thing or not. I think it's a matter that's full of emotions and less politics, so in that way it's different. But in any case, we are preparing all aspects of the matter. And the government will take its decision in good time to be able to run any WTO case in the best possible way. It is of course closely linked to the legal aspects of the case. I'm very happy that we have the WTO. We know as a small country how important it is to us, and we have also known that it is possible to reach it. Finally, the representative, Nesvik, was in the midst of the ongoing conflict with the EU, and that we could possibly have conflicts in other areas. I can assure the Storting that we will put all the cloths to come to an agreement. I have had meetings with the fishermen, last week at the latest, and for me it is essential that we are agreed. We are. And I have come to realize that there is a cross-political consensus on the importance of that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e786	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-01-18.ana.ud925e853	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
