ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e90	The representatives of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Morten Höglund, Helga Pedersen, Arild Stokkan-Grande and Irene Johansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Eastfold County, Stein Erik Lauvås, has taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Øyvind Vaksdal on leave on days 16 and 17 November and from the representative of Mr Karin S. Woldseth on leave from 16 November to 18 November – both to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris from the Group of the Progressive Alliance on the leave of the representative Mr Morten Höglund from 16 November to 18 November in order to attend meetings of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee and to be the Head of Delegation and the Host for a meeting of the Canadian Parliament in Ottawa from the Workers' Party Group on welfare leave for the representative Mr Torfinn Opheim from 16 November to 22 November from the Workers' Group on parental leave for the representative Sverre Myrli from 16 November to 26 November On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Anita Orlund and Tone Liljeroth For the province of Hordaland: Torkil Åmland For the Rogaland counties: Terje Halleland, and in addition Laila Thorsen from 16 November to 19 November.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e173	Anita Orlund, Tone Liljeroth, Torkil Åmland, Terje Halleland and Laila Thorsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e182	The representative, Nikolai Astrup, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e185	On behalf of the representatives Line Henriette Hemdal, Borghild Tenden and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to change the fuel charges for motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e190	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e193	I am pleased to promote a proposal for a representative on behalf of Bent Höie, Trine Skei Grande, Per Sandberg and myself on a comprehensive review of violations of statutory rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e198	The representative of the Svein Fleet will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e202	On behalf of the representatives of Anders B. Werp, Bent Höie, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Michael Tetzschner and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for strengthened consumer rights in the purchase of housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e207	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e219	On 5 May of this year, the day after I gave my last EU/EEA statement in Stortinget, Chancellor Angela Merkel said in the Bundestag that Europe's future was at stake. The critical situation in Greece and the risk of the breakup of eurocooperation called for crisis action in the EU. Now, six months later, the situation is a little less dramatic. The real economic decline appears to be against several of the major European countries, mainly in Germany, but also in Poland, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. Although today's growth is low and fragile, it has exceeded many expectations. Drippiness has mainly come from Asia, where growth has remained high. The emerging European countries are, in particular, countries with increased exports to these economies. In particular, Germany where the growth has spread for private consumption. If this happens in the rest of Europe, there is hope in the long term for both the labour market and public finances. However, the situation remains unclear, and the focus of the last few days on government finances in Ireland, Portugal and Greece can be confirmed. A comprehensive but temporary crisis financing plan for euro area countries was launched in May. It contained a total frame of up to 750 billion. the euro to prevent some euro area countries from experiencing acute payment difficulties. The EU has 500 billion. The euro is available and assumes that the IMF also decides to contribute 250 billion. euro. The plan was made subject to the approval of the national parliaments and the establishment of a temporary independent body in Luxembourg under the name of The European Financial Stability Facility. If one of the euro area countries encounters payment problems, this body will contribute with credit and thus prevent market disruption. During the spring euro crisis, it was recognised that euro cooperation would be put under unreasonable pressure with long-standing differences in the development of Member States' financial policies and competitiveness. The crisis package in question helped to strengthen confidence in euro cooperation. At the same time, it became clear that, even after the Treaty of Lisbon, the EU lacked adequate preparedness in the event of a Member State’s payment difficulties. The state financial crisis has also revealed that the coordination of economic policies in the EU and the euro area is not working well enough, especially for countries with a single currency and thus a common monetary policy. The Stability and Growth Pact reference limit for the maximum budget deficit, of 3 pst. by GDP, is now broken by most EU countries, including all euro area countries. Several countries have had a deficit of over 10 pst. GDP, which in turn reinforces debt growth. As an average, EU public gross debt is estimated to pass 80 pst. of GDP in a short time, while the ceiling under current rules is 60 pst. GDP. During a lecture in Oslo in June, Luxembourg’s Prime Minister and President of the Eurogroup, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that a revolution in the level of coordination and coordination was necessary before October in order to undermine the credibility of Eurocooperation. A working group chaired by President-in-Office of the Council Herman Van Rompuy completed its work in October this year. It is unclear whether Juncker would today call the outcome of the work of the working group revolutionary, but the proposals received a consistently positive reception. The recommendations and proposals contained in the Group's report address inter alia: enhanced economic monitoring, greater discipline in budgetary and financial management and the use of multiple sanctions against EU countries that do not comply with rules and recommendations. In parallel, the Commission has worked on a comprehensive package of legislative proposals to implement the proposals of the working group. The Heads of State or Government broadly endorsed the proposals at their summit meeting at the end of October. It was both the proposal for a permanent crisis financing scheme and the proposal to strengthen budgetary discipline through sanctions. The crisis financing mechanism is considered to require Treaty amendment and will be further explored in the EU. Before such measures may enter into force, they must be approved by the European Parliament. The Commission hopes to have the new framework in place before the summer of 2011. The international financial crisis has also revealed weaknesses in EU regulation of the supervision of the financial sector. This has led to the introduction of new regulations and the strengthening of supervisory arrangements. Today’s various supervisory committees will be converted into three permanent supervisory agencies for banking, insurance and securities trading. These are given a coordinating and partly transnational role in the supervision of national financial institutions. In addition, a macro-organisation has been established to monitor systemic risk throughout the financial market, known as the Risk Council. These arrangements will be effective from the turn of the year and Norway will be able to participate in the cooperation through the EEA Agreement. This applies in particular to the supervisory agencies, to a lesser extent to the Risk Board. The government has worked systematically to ensure the best possible representation of the EEA/EFTA countries in these new bodies. As the government has informed the Stortinget, no later than the National Budget 2011, as one of the measures in the wake of the financial crisis, the EU has adopted full harmonisation of deposit guarantee to EUR 100000 per depositor per bank. The Norwegian depositor's guarantee is 2 million. kr, i.e. well above twice the amount to be applied under the EU Directive from the end of the year. From the outset, Norway has been working very actively to maintain the Norwegian depository guarantee as it is today. Last week, the Minister of Finance raised this matter with Commissioner Barnier, and if necessary, further contacts will be made in the future. Barnier spoke both during the meeting and to the NRK Dagsrevyen immediately after the meeting that we were working on this matter. The particular feature of the European backlash of the financial crisis is that it has hit state finances in many countries and has therefore also gone to the heart of national policies and sustainability. It has exposed how unsustainable it is to have high debt and large deficits at the same time and over a long time. It is deeply alarming that unemployment rates are so high in so many countries, and particularly serious that large youth unemployment is getting worse. The EU focuses on enhanced transparency and control mechanisms, and now, with new mechanisms for Community response, whether new debt crises should occur. But the real measures against the conditions that have triggered the imbalances must be taken in each country. The level of government debt in some countries remains so alarming that further fiscal policy measures to stimulate the economy are difficult to implement. Government expenditure cuts, combined with increased taxes, are among the measures assessed and implemented in the majority of EU countries. In the national management of the causes of the crisis, we see far less coordination than in the management of some of the most profiled effects of the crisis. We see how countries take different measures and how social and political responses vary from country to country. It is understandable that governments are taking measures to correct major imbalances in government finances. However, there is cause for concern about large-scale government spending cuts and, in some countries, the increase in taxes coincides in time. It can reinforce signs of social and political tensions, and it can help to weaken or suffocate prospects for new growth. Several economists point out that the response to the crisis can have the effect of weakening growth capacity and thus of making the crisis more long-term. This also puts EU cooperation to the test. In particular, it concerns euro-cooperation, where common monetary policy requires proper coordination of macroeconomic policies. For while the Treaty of Lisbon was to strengthen the basis for common action and policies, the management of the crisis is in the opposite direction, towards a renationalisation of focus – at least of economic policy and fiscal policy. There are still deep imbalances between countries — and within countries — in our part of the world, between Germany, with its export-driven growth, on the one hand, and countries like Ireland and Portugal on the other, which, after Greece, now appear to be at the forefront of the danger, with great government debt to serve and, for Ireland, a fragile banking economy. With the strong cuts in public spending we now see in many EU countries, the question of where we will see the future growth power in Europe comes unmistakably. Norway is a contrast to this picture. We have a public sector with net assets and good budget management, and we have low unemployment. We have to enjoy this state. However, for the Norwegian economy, the evolution of the European economy has always been important. Weak demand affects our exports. Economic, social and political crises in our European partners and allies weaken our common ability to focus on the major issues ahead of us, such as the distribution of global power and influence when the growing economies, with China at the head, report with increasing force. Innovation, research and education are essential for Europe’s long-term growth and development. The new EU growth and employment strategy, called Europe 2020, is now being launched. The strategy has concrete objectives for employment, research, climate and energy action, education and poverty reduction. The main tasks are referred to as flagship initiatives. Four of seven of these are now launched. The last three will come by the first half of 2011. A number of EU initiatives that also affect the internal market are linked to this strategy. These flagship initiatives are said to be testing the EU’s ability to implement the Europe 2020 strategy. The Lisbon Strategy, the predecessors of the Europe 2020 strategy, succeeded only to a limited extent in achieving similar objectives. There was a long way between the common objectives and the follow-up in each Member State. The success factor will also be whether sufficient national ownership is ensured both in the public and private sectors. From the Norwegian side, we follow this work. This affects European economic development Norway is dependent on, and has implications for our obligations and what is in our own national interest to follow up. An important objective of our participation in the internal market through the EEA Agreement is to ensure the same possible framework conditions. That is why, in the areas I have mentioned here, we need to ensure that Norwegian actors keep up and have the capacity to assert themselves. It is a demanding time for Europe on many flanks. The EU must deal with the aftermath of the financial crisis while implementing the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon, not least with a stronger common foreign policy as its objective. Central here is the establishment of the EEAS, the Single European External Action Service. In the summer, EU foreign ministers adopted the design of the common foreign service. It is added to a headquarters in Brussels, while most of the staff will be on the delegations around the world, including in Oslo. The EU delegations become the EEAS and will represent the EU as a whole, not just the Commission, as in the past. The aim is for the service to be operational from 1 December 2010 at the earliest and to be evaluated in 2013. As it appears, an EEA/EFTA unit will be established in the new structure, where relations with Norway will also be maintained. The government is working to continue cooperation with the EU in the new structure. As EU delegations will bring together all parts of the EU's foreign policy work, they can become stronger precursors of EU foreign policy. They will be important meeting points for us too. We will also develop the meeting points we already have with the European Union, with the Commission and with the Council Secretariat. We place great emphasis on following the work of stronger coordination of EU foreign policy. Again, how these, our closest allies and partners, succeed, is of great importance to Norway, because it is with these countries that we most often have common positions in international forums. It's too early to assess the result. So far, we see that EU countries are using considerable energy and are exerting considerable pressure on internal coordination and the ropes around the design of the new institutions. It's more difficult to see that this until now has led to a clearer external selection. Rather, it creates the impression that a European voice is absent or weak in leading international forums, such as: in the climate diplomacy or in the Middle East. And there is still a tension between the design of common policies and the desire of individual countries to highlight national views. This will take time. The EU has always shown the ability to build the institutions adopted by the Treaties. I think that will also happen in the field of foreign affairs. The challenge will be to fill institutions with policies – and to avoid compromises among 27 ending up as a powerless minimum common multiple. The system of one Member State holding the Presidency of EU cooperation continues, including with the Treaty of Lisbon. Each EU Presidency organises inter alia: informal ministerial meetings, where Norway wants to be invited to some. These are useful policy workshops for exchanging views. We aim to attend these meetings, and the frequency of meetings, as has been pointed out recently, can be better. At the same time, there are a number of other venues where we meet the EU and the EU Member States. We prioritise close dialogue with our fellow EU ministers – bilaterally and when we meet in international forums – and also with key Commission and European Parliament staff. It is in Norway and — let me add — also in the EU’s interest that we have such close and ongoing contact. One measure that can be of major importance for enhanced contact with several EU countries is the two agreements with the EU on EEA funds for 2009-2014, signed on 28 July. The decision approving the ratification of the agreements was taken on 28 October. At the same time, subject to the consent of the Grand Duchy, I could sign the first bilateral agreement with one of the beneficiary countries, Slovakia, in Bratislava on 26 October. The attention in Slovakia to these means of development illustrated with all clarity what the resources can be, not only for the development of the recipient countries, but also for our bilateral relations, if we make good use of this. Through the EEA funds, Norway makes a substantial contribution to economic and social cohesion in Europe. The donor countries must contribute 1788.5 million. EUR from 2009 to 2014. The Norwegian share is about 97 pst. of the total contribution. The economic situation in many of these countries is difficult. With this contribution, we can make a difference. The new scheme is based on experience with the previous financial instruments and it is further developed into priority areas of common interest. There is now a much stronger involvement of Norwegian partners in programmes and projects. Voluntary organisations and commercial actors will also be able to enter into partnerships at project level. It will be a priority task for the U.D. and other departments concerned to contribute to as many links and as much Norwegian content as possible within the current framework. The U.D. started in September negotiations with the recipient countries on the use of funds. We have now opened talks with the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Greece, Estonia, Poland, Latvia, Cyprus, Bulgaria and Lithuania. From the Norwegian side, we have paid particular attention to strengthening judicial cooperation with selected recipient countries. This will be particularly relevant in the negotiations with Romania, Lithuania, Poland and Greece. Following the signing of a settlement transfer agreement with Romania, it is natural to focus judicial cooperation also on institutional cooperation in the fields of judicial reform, prison services and settlement reform in Romania. Much attention is paid to the situation of asylum seekers in Greece. It is gratifying that in September we agreed with Greece on a significant investment in the field of asylum. In this way, the EEA funds help countries meet common European objectives. It is in the interests of the recipient countries, and it is in Norwegian interest. In line with established practice, I will now mention some EEA issues. The government is working on the implementation of several demanding legislation. The Postal Directive and the Data Storage Directive are examples of legislation that has been the subject of debate and investigations. The postal directive, the third in the series, covers, inter alia: full liberalisation of the postal market and will be implemented in the EU by the end of the year. In Norway, there are questions about the social and economic consequences of implementing the Directive. This is the subject of a thorough assessment, and the government will refer the matter to the Stortinget as soon as it has taken a decision. The government has continued to work on the Data Storage Directive and will present the matter to Storting once this work has been completed. As far as the Eurovignette Directive is concerned, for our part, it is primarily about access to maintain a more liberal framework for discounts on heavy goods vehicles in toll facilities. We're still in dialogue with the Commission on this. The Audiovisual Media Services Directive, which amends the so-called TV Directive, intervenes in Norwegian policy. The Directive is primarily concerned with the conditions for the transmission of television broadcasts in the EEA territory. Country of destination does not have the right to restrict advertising which complies with the Directive in consignments from other countries. At present, Norway has an adjustment to allow alcohol advertising to be stopped in such consignments, when specifically addressed to Norway. This access only applies on cable TV networks. Norway wishes to maintain this access and extend it to the digital ground net. The Commission has clearly indicated that we cannot continue this derogation. A number of contacts have been made at political level, both with the Commission and with selected EU countries. The government believes that it would be very unfortunate for overall public health cooperation if Norway had to state its ability to stop alcohol advertising in targeted television broadcasts and would work on a broad basis to reach the EU. In 2008, the EU adopted a legislation on labour hiring, the so-called agency directive. It shall ensure the protection of workers employed in temporary employment agencies, recognise temporary employment agencies as employers and establish a framework for the use of temporary employment. The Directive introduces a non-discrimination principle for temporary workers. Such a principle is now proposed in the Working Environment Act. The principle will improve the pay and working conditions of hired workers. The Directive also regulates the possibility for Member States to have restrictions on the availability of labour hire. In the debate on the Directive, some have been concerned that it will lead to more temporary employment. Our assessment is that it will not be necessary to change the Norwegian rules on access to labour. The starting point for permanent employment to be the general form of employment is still Norwegian policy. The rules on working time shall continue to be linked to the rules on temporary employment so that the protection of employees cannot be circumvented. The case was sent to a hearing within the time limit of 10 December. On the basis of the consultation, a decision will be taken on the inclusion of the Directive in the EEA Agreement. The regulations I have mentioned have a direct impact on Norwegian business and the daily lives of the Nordics. It shows the importance of Norwegian participation and active influence – firstly in the work of expert groups under the Commission, which contribute to the shaping of new EU legislation, and secondly in what is referred to as comitology work, i.e. in committees with national representatives that follow how the Commission develops and adopts complementary legislation. Participation in this work allows us to promote Norwegian views in the development of EU legislation that is or will be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. Articles 99 and 100 of the EEA Agreement allow Norway to participate in relevant expert groups and committees. However, the Treaty of Lisbon has changed the framework for the so-called comitology system in the EU. One element is that the European Parliament is now assimilated to the Council with regard to the delegation and control of the Commission’s implementing powers. It is not clear what the final design of the comitology system will be. In any case, Norway’s rights under the EEA Agreement will apply. The government will work to ensure the best possible respect for our interests and rights. The impact of EU legislative design is demanding. One of several reasons is that the European Parliament has had further influence in the decision-making processes. The company gives an illustration of the power of Parliament. Despite extensive protests by Norwegian and Canadian sides, the EU ban on the placing on the market of cell products entered into force on 20 August this year. There are a few and limited exceptions to the ban. They relate to the products of the sale hunted by indigenous peoples and by-products of natural resource management catches and tourist imports. Catch as such is not regulated. Norway and Canada held a joint WTO dispute resolution consultation last December. We're still in constant contact with Canada. We have both requested a new round of WTO consultations. The Government is assessing whether to request a WTO panel and what might be the right time for such a step. What can we expect from new EU legislation that will affect Norway? The EU's common asylum system will have significant consequences for our country. We are directly affected by the proposed amendments to the Dublin and Eurodac Regulations on the processing of asylum applications and have an interest in their existence and improvement. Further harmonised legislation, more uniform implementation and a higher European Asylum System standard will help to reduce secondary migration flows and provide equal access to protection across Europe. The Government prioritises an agreement to join the European Asylum Support Office, which will be formally established in Malta later this month, and aims to start negotiations with the EU in a short time. The European Court of Human Rights is currently examining several cases where it has been alleged by the complainants that the return of asylum seekers to Greece is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. A case against Belgium and Greece has been handed over to the Grand Chamber of the Court of Justice, and a judgment is expected during the year or early next year. In those cases, the Court of Justice has asked for a halt to the return of asylum seekers to Greece. Norway has also received such a request and has therefore stopped returning to Greece. The forthcoming decision will have an impact on Norwegian and European practice in Dublin cases if the Court concludes that return to Greece on a general basis is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. On 4 November the Vice-President of the European Commission, Ms Reding, presented a privacy strategy covering all policy areas. The strategy contains proposals for the modernisation of EU data protection legislation and announced legislative amendments in 2011. Any legislative changes on the EU side will have an impact on Norway, which is integrated into the Common Code in the field through the 1995 Data Protection Directive and the Framework Decision on privacy in the context of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. The government will therefore follow this work closely. In the EEA area, a new legislation on consumer rights is being drawn up in the EU bodies. The new Directive will replace four existing consumer protection directives, all implemented in Norwegian law. The Directives include, in substance, rules on the information obligation of traders to consumers, consumer rights in the purchase of goods, the right of withdrawal in certain sales situations, and rules on the assessment of unfair contractual terms. The proposal, as originally drafted by the Commission in 2008, is based on total harmonisation. This meant a weakening of consumer protection in Norway on some points. The government has made its view known to the EU. Countries should be able to continue to have rules that provide better consumer protection than in the Directive. This shall not weaken Norwegian consumer rights as a whole. We are now seeing positive developments in the work of the directive. We believe that Norway, together with neighbouring countries, has contributed to this. We keep the consumer and business interests at home orientated. Norway supports several of its views both among the Member States and politicians in the European Parliament. The proposal is now before the Council and Parliament. The Belgian EU Presidency wishes political agreement within the Council by the end of the year. Although the text of the directive that is now being discussed in Parliament has been improved from a Norwegian point of view, there is room for further improvements. The Government has drawn up a new EFTA opinion on the work of the European Parliament on the proposal for a directive as a further follow-up. The proposal for legislation on patients’ rights in cross-border healthcare was presented by the Commission in 2008 as part of the so-called new social agenda. The aim of the proposal for a directive is, inter alia, to: clarify patients’ rights when they choose to seek health care in another EEA country and to ensure quality when healthcare is received across borders. The proposal provides for the regulation of the right to reimbursement of costs when patients have chosen to receive health care in an EEA country other than the Member State where they are covered by a national social security scheme. The European Court of Justice and the EFTA Court of Justice have interpreted the rules on the free movement of services in such a way that patients are entitled to such reimbursement under certain conditions. Therefore, Norway already has rules that comply with parts of the proposed directive. However, the proposal also deals with schemes to help patients make informed choices about where to seek health care and about different forms of cooperation between countries. The debate on the proposal for a directive in the Council and the European Parliament in the autumn will include, inter alia: are concerned with the conditions under which countries may require prior authorisation for treatment abroad, the possible specific rights to health care in the case of rare diseases, the introduction of mechanisms to avoid the need for patients to spend and seek reimbursement afterwards, and the rules for cooperation on the use of so-called eHealth. Norway considers it important to strike a balance between patients’ rights and the need for country planning and cost control. It is important to maintain a strong public health system with adequate services throughout the country. The Ministry of Health and Health is following this case on. Energy policy in the EU shall combine different objectives: secure energy supply, reduced greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector and participation in functioning energy markets. As Norway, the EU is committed to the priority of the safety of offshore petroleum activities. The Commission recently presented a communication on this subject and now assesses whether and in what case the EU can contribute in this area. This is a field where Norway has acute competence and a very strict regulatory framework developed over many years based on our specific experience. We are committed to contributing to the exchange of experience and will focus on continuing strong national responsibility for security issues. The implementation of major issues such as the third energy market package and the 2009 climate and energy package is a significant effort for EU countries. These legislative and guidance packages are subject to EEA treatment. The new regulation on gas security adopted by the European Parliament in the autumn is an example of the EU's work on energy supply. This Regulation will help to increase security of gas supply and to strengthen the gas produced by energy in Europe. This is in Norwegian interest. The Commission has just presented a proposal for a new energy strategy for the EU. The strategy points to opportunities for improvement and decisions that are necessary for the EU to achieve its 2020 objectives. Key areas of the strategy are the development of infrastructure, energy efficiency and technology development, areas that are also high on the Norwegian energy agenda. At the same time, we are directly involved with our European partners in the debate on tomorrow's energy production and consumption in Europe, on the steps towards the low-carbon society. Norwegian hydropower can be seen in the context of renewable energy investment in the North Sea, such as the United Kingdom and Germany’s investment in wind power. In its energy concept for 2050, the German government sets the goal of having a renewable share of 80 pst. It is emphasised that close cooperation with Norway will be essential to achieve this. In the German-Norwegian energy dialogue, companies and authorities are talking about a new generation of energy cooperation between our two countries. It opens up exciting perspectives and opportunities. Norway and the EU have a consistent assessment of what the world society is facing in climate policy and of how we should now move forward. In my previous statement, I said that although the global negotiations in Copenhagen failed, the EU is firmly committed to the formulation of its climate policy. That's still the situation. The main instruments for the EU in the so-called 20-20-20 package, the revised ETS and the renewable directive, are on hand. The government follows up the Storting climate settlement on the international prevalence of carbon capture and storage, CCS. We cooperate with both the European Commission and the central EU countries. It's set aside for a total of 1.3 billion. under the EEA funds for CCS in the recipient countries. The EU CO2 storage directive, which is also part of the climate and energy package, is an important framework condition for the realisation of CCS in Europe. The EU objective of a 20 pst share. renewable energy in 2020 shall be promoted by both energy efficiency improvement and increased commitment to the deployment of renewable energy. This is important for Norway, and we follow policy developments. The EEA/EFTA countries are in discussions with the Commission on the inclusion of the Aviation Directive, the revised ETS Directive and the renewable directive in the EEA Agreement. For the Aviation Directive, there is an agreement on inclusion in the EEA Agreement. Negotiations are under way for the revised ETS. We hope they can be concluded if not for long. The Renewables Directive has great ambitions for the EU’s increase in renewable energy production. The EFTA/EEA countries Norway and Iceland provide a completely different starting point from all EU countries. The share of renewable energy is well above the EU average. It is therefore natural that we consider all aspects of the implementation of the Directive in the EEA Agreement. Both Norway and Iceland have had exploratory talks with the Commission. In 2005, which is the starting point for the 2020 target calculation, Norway’s renewable share was 58,5 pst. It's good to thank you for 50 pst. in 2020 as laid down in the calculation method used in the EU. Since the share of renewable energy in Norway is already so high, we also have less leeway to phase out fossil energy than EU countries. In one of the most nearby areas of renewable energy conversion, the power sector, almost all energy in Norway is already renewable, while European countries have a lot to do. So we have to find a solution that makes sense based on the situation we're in. The government is further working with Iceland in an EEA context. Research cooperation between Norway and the EU is good and broad. This facilitates the EEA Agreement. As in Norway, the EU prioritises research on global problems: climate, energy and resource scarcity, health and ageing. Norway participates in the EU Framework Programme for Research, Technology and Demonstration Activities. We are now halfway into the 7th Framework Programme. This is the largest programming effort in the EEA. It is also the most global research cooperation Norway is involved in.The Ministry’s evaluation of Norwegian participation in the framework programmes for the period 2002–08 shows that it provides good benefits for Norwegian research. In particular, Norwegian researchers do well in areas such as climate, energy and food, and Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises participate in programme activities. We have started the preparations for the 8th Framework Programme for Research. The planning of the next programme will start seriously in 2011. For us, it is important to go out early on with our priorities for such a new programme. We must have a commitment that meets both Norwegian, European and global needs. The Ministry of Knowledge has now launched a wide-ranging consultation with the Norwegian research communities, health companies and industry and has a dialogue with the other Nordic countries on this issue. Through the EEA Agreement, Norway also participates in the EU Lifelong Learning Programme – LLP. It covers everything from kindergarten and school to vocational training, higher education and adult learning. Our participation in this programme gives Norwegian students, as well as students, teachers and others involved in education opportunities for support to stay abroad for individuals and groups, as well as for educational cooperation with one or more foreign partners. So finally, the agreement on maritime demarcation and cooperation in the Barents Sea and the Arctic was signed in Murmansk on 15 September. It will be submitted to the Stortinget and the Russian State Duma for approval before it can enter into force. I will therefore return to Stortinget in connection with the presentation of the proposition. The agreement is firmly anchored in international law and creates predictability and stability for the exercise of authority and the right to have the resources of the previously disputed area. The agreement gives rise to considerable interest in Europe and beyond, as an illustration of how countries in the north follow the instructions of international law in addressing outstanding issues. We can now see that our efforts to strengthen border cooperation with Russia and to develop cooperation in the northern seas provide results and a good basis for further follow-up. Earlier this month here in Oslo, Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov and I signed an agreement between Norway and Russia, the agreement on simplified border crossing for border residents. This is a mechanism provided by the Schengen Agreement. To date, the agreement is the last in a series of measures to facilitate the crossing of the Norwegian-Russian border. It implies, when it enters into force, that residents of the Norwegian and Russian border areas may be issued with a border resident’s certificate to an extent of 30 km. It allows crossing the border and staying in the border area of the neighbouring country without a visa requirement for up to 15 days. The border residence certificate will not give the right to take up work in the border area of the second country, but I see this as a first step towards further improvement in the travel and employment opportunities of border residents. Both of these agreements I have now mentioned create increased predictability and driving rules in the north, help improve relations between Russia and Norway, and further erase the gap between East and West. What was formerly the border where NATO met the Soviet Union is now an area where development and cooperation across the border are speeding – now also with agreement on the border at sea. The establishment of such driving rules and common solutions between countries may take time and be painful. Getting to an agreement on the divider line took 40 years. Finding common rules and solutions often requires comprehensive compromises and balances between different considerations. Developments in the EU over the last few years have created or strengthened tensions between countries and between needs. It is difficult for 27 countries to agree on common policies that affect the lives of half a billion Europeans. It is demanding when comprehensive solutions need to be found immediately, such as the crisis package for Greece. However, it is essential for us that the EU countries succeed in their efforts. For us, this is the bottom line: politically and economically, we are served by the success of the EU countries. It's in Norway's interest, and that's why we want to do what we can to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e419	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. No objections have been raised to this proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e437	On 16 June 2008, the Nordic Ministers for Foreign Affairs asked the former Council of State Thorvald Stoltenberg to submit proposals to strengthen Nordic cooperation on foreign and security policy. At the same time, the Foreign Ministers appointed two contact persons to assist Stoltenberg in this comprehensive and important work. Stoltenberg and his employees made several round trips to the Nordic capitals and had conversations with politicians from government parties and from the opposition, and with a wide range of professionals. On 9 February 2009, there was a comprehensive report, which was not so large in number but was nevertheless extensive in relation to the ‘order’ that the Foreign Ministers had given to Thorvald Stoltenberg. The report contained 13 very precise and important points that I feel can be of great importance for future Nordic cooperation. The report has been discussed in depth by the Nordic Foreign Ministers and Nordic Ministers responsible for preparedness and rescue. The matter has also been at the heart of the Nordic Council, and it has been the subject of the Nordic Association. When I recently attended the Nordic Council's session on Iceland, I experienced a very great commitment to the Stoltenberg report, and I registered a great deal of willingness to move forward with the work outlined in the report. I am aware that it is the Norwegian Government and our foreign minister who have the greatest pressure on this matter, but I feel that there is a great will for action in all the Nordic countries. In recent years, the Nordic Council has addressed issues related to several of the points in the Stoltenberg report. The Nordic Council has taken into account in its discussions the changes that an expanded security concept has brought about since the end of the Cold War. In this context, both global aspects of the issue and issues of social security and traditional military issues have been discussed. I think we can establish that it is both a desire and a need for closer Nordic cooperation, and that what may hinder this must be clear of the road as soon as possible. The fact that we have Nordic countries that are not in NATO and others that are not in the EU should not be an obstacle. We're Nordic, good neighbors anyway. However, the question relates to the willingness of such cooperation to address the very specific measures. My intention of this interpellation is, of course, to get answers to the questions I have raised and that take me up. At the same time, I think it's important to focus more on this topic, and I think it might be useful to get a debate and good input from several staging representatives who are involved in this important topic. I see clearly that the Stoltenberg report's proposals are large and complicated and require the time and effort of many, but the more important it is to keep the pressure up all the time. I'm not going to try to prioritize between the 13 points outlined in the report, all of which are very important, but I want to highlight what I think is the most urgent, and on which there must soon be agreed solutions. These are questions I have previously highlighted both in Stortinget and in various Nordic contexts. This is linked to climate change and to the rapid changes we are now seeing as a result of these changes in nature. Point 3 of the Stoltenberg report deals with marine surveillance and Arctic issues. It is proposed to establish a Nordic monitoring and warning system in the Nordic seas. As a starting point, the system shall be civil and targeted at monitoring the marine environment, pollution and civil traffic. The report indicates that countries manage large seas, but with climate change and ice smelting, these areas will be much, much larger. In the wake of this, there will be increasing activity in the northern seas. New ice-free areas will open up new routes between Europe and the Pacific via Arctic waters, and we will see increased oil and gas activity. I am now recording a more comprehensive debate on the potential for increased oil and gas production in the northern regions, but there is little focus on increasing ship traffic in the northern regions, and this may result in a risk of accidents and pollution. Let me say it this way: I'm not so worried about what increased oil and gas production will bring in the north of negative conditions, but the shipping traffic that is already there, and that will grow sharply in the time to come, should worry more than me, if not soon more surveillance and preparedness will be put in place. I'm going to claim that fixed oil and gas installations in the near vicinity represent such a major pollution hazard as those ships that operate with different types of cargo, and which are becoming increasingly common in many new areas. We also need to be able to set ourselves up so that we can make good use of the opportunities open to new activities and to settle in the north. In other words, we have to be able to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. I would like to commend the initiatives that the government has already taken in this regard, inter alia. through the development of competence in Tromsø. I would also like to highlight the establishment of the comprehensive monitoring and information system BarentsWatch, which is now underway, and which will have its operating organisation in Tromsø regarding the open part. After what I understand, a start will happen in just one year. And as I understand it, a closed operating system is to be developed in parallel and connected to the maritime traffic centre in Vardø. I think these are very good measures, but once again I would like to note that this is something that is urgent, and that must not be subjected to excessive delays in the time that is coming. Linked to this one point in the Stoltenberg report are also several other points in the same report, which together will form a whole that will result in greater security of life and health, and which can protect the environment in a very good way. I look forward to the Foreign Minister's reply and to the subsequent debate on this very important report, which focuses so much on our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e475	Yes, we get that answer right away, because the next speaker is Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e478	Thanks to the representative Arnesen for a topical and important issue, which was given due attention, as he himself mentioned, during the Nordic Council's session on Iceland earlier this month, namely the follow-up to the various proposals in the Stoltenberg report on Nordic cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy. The debate in Reykjavik illustrates how the report has succeeded in achieving one of the objectives we foreign ministers had when we ordered it, namely a desire for more dynamism in Nordic cooperation and the change of words. First a few words about the backstop, if I can call it that: changes in the geopolitical balance of power, new EU membership, EEA Agreement, NATO partnership, climate change, new Arctic shipping routes, oil, gas and mineral extraction – all are examples of factors that affect the need to rethink and strengthen Nordic cooperation on security and foreign policy. The obvious thing is that many of the barriers to such cooperation from the cold war have now been raised. The common challenges we face regionally are clear, and the desire to respond to them is clearly expressed. At the same time, we are basing the different relationships between NATO and the EU in the Nordic region. The mission of Stoltenberg was to provide a wider horizon for foreign and security cooperation – to look ahead a little in time and to be more evocative than governments can do here and now. Thorvald Stoltenberg complied. He proposed twelve specific proposals and, in addition, a general proposal for a Nordic declaration of solidarity. Already at the 2009 Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting in Reykjavik, all the proposals of the Stoltenberg report were discussed. A joint Nordic declaration of this meeting identified the proposals to be prioritised in the short and medium term. This was the case with proposal 1, on civil and military crisis management, proposal 2, on air surveillance over Iceland, proposal 7, on defence against digital attacks, proposal 10, on cooperation between foreign services, and proposal 11, on military cooperation. In preparation for the Foreign Minister's meeting now last in Reykjavik, we reviewed the status. It shows that we have made good progress in the implementation process. In the case of Nordic cooperation on civil and military crisis management, proposal 1, all Nordic countries are committed to strengthening international support for stabilisation and reconstruction in post-conflict situations. We are all contributors, with military, police and civil representatives in charge of, among others. UN, OSCE, EU and NATO. As small countries, with limited human resources, we can take better advantage of each other's expertise, and we can streamline our contributions by being interconnected. We are now working to strengthen the cooperation and complementarity of civil and military crisis management. In the short term, we are working for more common Nordic training of personnel for international action. At the same time, we launch a Nordic study to look at our common Nordic experience from international operations. We also intend to strengthen Nordic police cooperation in connection with such operations. Militaryly, there is established cooperation between the Nordic countries on the training of staff personnel and observers for international action. With regard to proposal 7 on digital security, countries agree to establish a Nordic communication and competence network against digital attacks. Such threats are becoming increasingly widespread, and it is important that Nordic countries, such as leading IT nations, discuss this. Economic and technical implications for the establishment of such a network will include, inter alia: had to be clarified. The Baltic countries will be invited to participate as soon as possible. With regard to proposal 10, on enhanced cooperation between foreign services, we note that there has already been a significant increase in contacts between departments. Concretely, it is now put up, among other things. to: better organisation of the co-location and placement of our diplomats in the embassies of other Nordic countries; design of guidelines for joint Nordic honorary consulates; development of common procedures for applications for provisional travel documents; division of work for the admission of biometric data in relation to passport applications; and introduction of common procedures for the registration of Nordic nationals abroad. We will also further develop cooperation with a view to leading one Nordic representation in crisis situations to take responsibility for Nordic citizens in third countries. At the same time, we strengthen professional cooperation in the capitals and at the outdoor stations, including: through several joint Nordic reports and analyses. So to proposal 11, on enhanced Nordic defence cooperation: this cooperation is constantly developing, and in many ways it has been the strongest catalyst for enhanced cooperation in other sectors as well. Developments over the past few years with closer cooperation on foreign and security policy, enhanced cooperation on training, planning, exercises and procurement — yes, not only within NATO but also between Nordic countries — will continue, including in the coming years. We, as others — look only at the recent French-British cult on defence cooperation — experience that the increase in costs means that no country can afford to maintain national and expensive structures alone. Nordic military cooperation is followed by the Nordic Defence Policy Cooperation Structure Nordic Defence Cooperation, established by the Defence Ministers in November 2009. This is extensive and spanning the entire breadth of Nordic defence cooperation. Norway has chaired this in 2010. In some areas, defence cooperation has actually gone beyond what is contained in the Stoltenberg report’s proposal. Collaboration on combat aircraft drills is a good example. A key objective has been to strengthen Nordic cooperation in international operations. In this field, there are several areas of cooperation in the ISAF operation in Afghanistan. We work closely, among other things. on the supply, transport and training of Afghan forces. In addition to Afghanistan, the Nordic countries cooperate on capacity building in East Africa and security sector reform in Western Balkans and Ukraine. Furthermore, we look at how we can cooperate on contributions to UN-led operations. Efforts are also being made to strengthen capacity cooperation, particularly on the land and air side, where the potential for cooperation is greatest. In the light of experience gained in the Nordic logistics cooperation in Afghanistan, it is working to further develop forms of cooperation in logistics that can be used in future operations. I note the representative's focus on proposal 4, and can confirm that it also has our attention. There is Norway in the front when we are now developing, among other things. BarentsWatch and the Tromsø environment. The last proposal, No. 13, in the Stoltenberg report deals with a Nordic declaration of solidarity. The proposal for such a declaration is exciting because it challenges us – and some traditional thinking – about what Nordic solidarity actually involves. We're used to Article 5 in NATO context. This is still a pillar of Norwegian security policy and will be confirmed and made clear at the NATO Summit in a few days' time when the new strategic concept is to be adopted. The Nordic Foreign Ministers agree that the debate on such a declaration of solidarity should not be hastened. A general but clear formulation was adopted when the report was first discussed in spring 2009. The debate on how to shape a more comprehensive Nordic declaration of solidarity challenges established truths and reflects the consideration of new realities. The Nordic region faces security policy challenges that require reorientation and enhanced solidarity. Nordic solidarity is deeply popularly anchored. Translating in political terms, such solidarity will also reflect new security policy realities in the north without compromising the respective obligations of the countries within the EU and NATO. However, it is a modern paradox that the NATO country of Norway today has clearer solidarity obligations to countries in southern Europe than to its neighbours Sweden and Finland – and vice versa: EU countries Sweden and Finland today have clearer obligations to the same southern countries through their EU membership. The debate in the Nordic region should therefore be about how we can express solidarity commitments that are realistic, feasible and in line with our other commitments. It is important that the Nordic countries discuss these issues further, and that is the kind of debate that the Stoltenberg report invites, and to which the representative today has taken the initiative in such a good way. Exposure in national Parliaments is absolutely crucial and in place. The debate on a Nordic declaration of solidarity will help to lift the practical Nordic cooperation in the future, and will contribute to the mutual dependence and ownership of the Nordic neighbourhoods for which the Stoltenberg report aims. In very many areas, we have common interests in our neighbourhoods. From the Norwegian side, we will therefore continue to participate actively in these talks as an expression of Nordic solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e535	I thank the Minister for a full answer and good information. I think the answer shows that the government has pressed pressure on this matter, and that the Stoltenberg report is very timely and predictable. I also think this shows that the Nordic countries, with their geographical proximity and good dialogue, need an even closer cooperation on matters that to date have not been so much cooperation. The Nordic countries are small separately, but together we have a significant size in terms of land, population and resources – not least we have a very strong economy together in the world context. Therefore, Nordic cooperation must also be developed in new areas, including the dismantling of unnecessary barriers. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Stoltenberg delivered, and I am pleased that the implementation is well under way. I also think that the work that is now taking place, which is anchored in the Nordic region, is good, as well as looking beyond the Nordic borders; it concerns both contacts with the Baltic countries and international operations. I am also very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is so concerned with point 13 of the Stoltenberg report on a declaration of solidarity and the thoughtful attitude of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on that issue. I also think the paradoxes he pointed out here are important to bring with him. I look forward to the debate, and I hope it will produce recordings that can be useful in the further work both for the Foreign Minister and for the rest of us here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e550	As I said, we asked Stoltenberg to think 10–15 years in advance and be bold. At the same time, we recognise that there is a rapid pace of development in many areas, and that the challenges in Europe are great and not easy to predict. But I think the sum of them points towards the Nordic countries having an interest in cooperation. This defence cooperation is based primarily on a material interest and cooperation on training, procurement and training, which small countries need in a high-cost time. Now, in the field of European territory, other countries are doing the same. This development must continue. Our challenge as elected representatives will be to look at what is the political implications of such a development, and also to recognize what has happened after the cold war in the form that barriers are lifted away. We should remember that it was taboo to debate foreign and defence policy in the Nordic Council as late as the early 1990s. Then the question is, what arrangements reflect the needs of our time? The government’s position is that we can make significant progress without compromising the commitments of Norway, Denmark and Iceland in NATO and the commitments of Denmark, Sweden and Finland in the EU. How, then, do we express solidarity in the Nordic region in 2010 to the 2020s? It's different than when the big debates started in the 1940s and 1950s. I believe that through debates like the one we have today, and with close contact with other Nordic parliamentarians, we can help raise some of these issues further. Just because we said that Stoltenberg should think in a 10- to 15-year perspective, we should not be hasty. For it is important to get the leading environments in the various sectors, so that they feel that this solidarity approach actually reflects interests and that it is possible to deliver. In empty solidarity, there is not much warmth and joy to pick up, and that also applies between countries. That is why the debate at Reykjavik was important. This debate is important, and I would like to encourage Members of this House to also have contact with their Nordic colleagues in order to keep this debate alive. It's important for it to be taken further concretely, and it will play back on our ability to mobilise resources and the willingness to cooperate on the other 12 points. In particular, it is important to be able to illustrate that cooperation will be resource-saving. I think all governments will increasingly be concerned about that in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e564	A thank you to the inter-pellant, who again addresses a very important topic that will affect Norwegian foreign and defence policy for a long time to come. In the debate on the development of the north, issues of civil society security and security policy are becoming increasingly important. These are not just military challenges — ice melting and, as a result, new pathways as well as increased pressure on oil and gas extraction require a new approach to the north. Today’s challenges range from major natural disasters and resource-exploitation accidents. We need to cooperate with other concerned and implement the necessary measures to ensure that new activities, for which ice melting opens, do not create undue risks to the environment and safety. Thorvald Stoltenberg's report to the Nordic Foreign Ministers has helped to raise defence and security policy and the political debate in the Nordic context. Together with the government's announcement New building blocks in the north, the report provides a good basis for new initiatives and efforts. Stoltenberg recommends the establishment of a Nordic monitoring and warning system in the Nordic sea areas. It is a civil system aimed at monitoring the marine environment, pollution and civil traffic. With the large sea areas we manage in the Nordic region, it is absolutely vital that we ensure an overview of what is happening both at sea and below sea level. When the marine monitoring system is in place, Stoltenberg recommends the establishment of a Nordic maritime effort unit consisting of elements from the coastguards and rescue services of the countries. Such a unit shall be capable of being deployed both in the Baltic Sea and in the Barents Sea. Opening up the Atlantic to the Pacific via the Arctic increases the need for monitoring and assistance in the area. In addition, Stoltenberg proposes the creation of its own disaster unit. This shall strengthen and complete today's national response facilities and shall also be responsible for coordinating Nordic efforts in the event of a crisis. Objection to the proposals in the report has been that it will require significant investment. But this is an argument with the opposite sign: precisely because the proposals will require so much both economically and in the form of human resources, it is important that the Nordic countries join forces on these challenges and tasks we have in the future. The report's latest proposal, which has received particular attention, concerns the idea of a Nordic declaration of solidarity, that each country undertakes to respond if a Nordic country is subjected to external attacks or undue pressure. This, of course, challenges the old thinking that our NATO membership is the only support in a crisis situation, and, as the Foreign Minister also mentioned, NATO Article 5. Here, of course, we have to spend time. We have different approaches to EU membership. We have the old tanks, the NATO box, the neutrality box, Finland with its connection, etc. We have to spend time going through this. But that we need each other, and that we have to act in solidarity, there's no doubt about it. As a member of the Foreign and Defence Committee, I recently attended some military stations in North Norway. It was a pleasure to see that active planning, active training and the purchase of defence equipment were now on the agenda and that the Nordic countries are now implementing this in practice. So here we see that we have already started well. Our partners have a lot to contribute. It's a force. The law of the sea is the undisputed framework. Coast Guard States have primary responsibility for the management of Pol Sea resources. Predictability and common driving rules are thus crucial in these areas in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e590	I also want to commend the interpellant for addressing an important question. This matter has been discussed, in part at least, here in Stortinget earlier. It has also been the subject of debate in the Nordic Council several times. The advantage of the Stoltenberg report is that it is simple in form. It's short. It is very specific in its content. It is practical in content, and it therefore outlines 13 points that all Nordic countries should have a great interest in being implemented. Not very long ago, here in the Chamber, we had a debate on Nordic cooperation and the government's annual report on this cooperation. Then I called for more concrete clarification of Nordic cooperation, and also that the Nordic Council should work on issues that more specifically affect the lives of the inhabitants and conditions that we can see more quickly. The Stoltenberg report is precisely such a matter which is very concrete in its content and on which we should be able to see results relatively quickly. After the debate on the Nordic cooperation that we had here in Stortinget, we have had the annual session of the Nordic Council, in Reykjavik, where foreign ministers were also. We had an interesting foreign and defence policy debate. The session in Reykjavik was, in my opinion, the most successful session we have had in the five years I have been a member of the Nordic Council. That also promises good for the debate we are going to have with our Nordic colleagues in the years to come. Some reason why I feel that the session was so successful is that at the session there were some individual items that were concrete and put on the agenda, and that there were good debates around. I think the Foreign Minister had a very good account of the status of the 13 points that Stoltenberg made in his report. When such a report is presented and there is a relatively large consensus between the Nordic countries that this should be carried out, the question is how long Parliamentary we should expect it to take before concrete cooperation is implemented. Now I heard that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said on several of the points that cooperation had started well. I could imagine that the interpellant, possibly the foreign minister, commented on this in his forthcoming speeches, and that the Nordic Council as a forum at some point in time, if not too long, perhaps in a year or two, asked for a written statement from the Foreign Ministers on which of these proposals were actually implemented. I am aware that it will take a relatively long time to implement some of these points and make them work in practice. At some point, however, we should set clear deadlines for implementation by the Nordic Council. Of course, on this issue of declaration of solidarity, we support it. The question is what is its actual content in relation to the status quo today. Clearly, if a Nordic country is attacked today, it would be natural for the Nordic countries to set up anyway. It is clear that the concrete nature of such a proposal will contribute to greater Nordic cohesion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e605	I'll also give praise to the interpellant to travel an important theme. We have a tradition of strong, dynamic and trusting Nordic cooperation. It also bears witness to the Stoltenberg report that you want to continue. There are 13 proposals in the report, and 12 of them are seen as relatively uncontroversial, but with some practical obstacles, which I know the foreign ministers are working on. Let me therefore add some comments to the 13th proposal, specifically defence cooperation and declaration of solidarity. I've been attending several conferences on this topic for the past six months, and it's a strong commitment to these issues. I think it's important that we start at the right end. The prerequisite for success in closer cooperation is that there will be a need from below – not as a top-level project, but as a result of real needs in the defence of the different countries. There is always a risk of making relatively large political programme declarations that cannot be implemented in practice. It's important to avoid in this context. You have to be sober, not overly ambitious, but yet you have big enough ambitions to realize it. There are examples of concrete areas of cooperation today. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has sailed these flying exercises. It is one day a week that Norwegian F-16, Swedish JAS Gripen and Finnish F-18 practice together – one day a week. We also know that in the Norwegian NAD, i.e. Norwegian Aeromedical Detachment, we have eleven Swedish technicians in Afghanistan, which is a prerequisite for our NAD mission to be completed. In addition, there is a Norwegian-Swedish cooperation on Archer artillery. So in many areas it has developed concrete cooperation. Nevertheless, I think we should be aware of the situation in the various Nordic countries now. The Swedish have seen the declaration of solidarity as something far more than the other Nordic countries. They have gone further in wanting this declaration of solidarity and also making such declarations to the other Nordic countries. It has been very important for the Swedes, and it has been repeated in many contexts. Denmark, on the other hand, shows little interest and has made strategic choices targeting the United Kingdom and the United States. So they show little or no interest in Nordic defence cooperation. Finland has a completely different defence from Norway and the other countries. They have not been through the same modernisation process as the other countries. Iceland, for the time being, expresses great scepticism for everything about Nordic cooperation, because they did not feel that Nordic cooperation was the way it should be during the financial crisis. There's one thing we've discussed many times here in the Chamber, and it's not hard to agree on, either here or in the national parliaments of the other Nordic countries, that there's probably a different view of it than what Iceland has. Nevertheless, I noticed something that the representative Tore Nordtun said in his post. He said that the issue of a declaration of solidarity challenges old thinking in relation to NATO. Well, NATO is our only security guarantee. I haven't heard or seen anyone wanting to challenge or change it, so to call it the old stuff of thought, I must say I think is something special. I would also like to stress that for Norway as a NATO country, it is extremely important that we do not dispose of in a way that puts our NATO membership in doubt. In my opinion, one can say that if it feels like a safety vacuum in the Nordic region, it must be filled by the fact that non-NATO countries become NATO members and that non-EU countries become EU members. I would strongly warn against the idea of getting full solidarity or a full declaration that did not cost either NATO or EU membership of the different countries by establishing a third level that would be competing with the other two. That is why it is important to look now at the integration that is taking place. There are very many non-EU countries that are more integrated into the EU than many EU countries, and similarly on the NATO side. Finland, for example, which is a non-NATO country, is very well integrated into NATO. So the fact that non-NATO countries and non-EU countries are actually taking a full step and becoming members of the corresponding organisations and participating in the cooperation between the EU and NATO is therefore the solution if it is perceived to be a security vacuum in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e633	I would first like to thank both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the interpellant for their interesting answers and for an important interpellation. I would like to summarise this with the fact that the theme that was long 'not allowed' to discuss in Nordic cooperation, foreign and security policy, now in many ways the driver and the most interesting theme in the Nordic debate and in the debate on Nordic cooperation. Of course, I am very positive about the Stoltenberg report, but also about his follow-up, which is now happening. I thought the Foreign Minister was going through it in a very good way. It is important to debate the follow-up to these questions, and it is not least important to implement many of the proposals, which are good, and which are under work. It is also very important that we continue to work from the Norwegian side and the Nordic countries on the question of a Nordic declaration of solidarity. Sweden has gone further than the others. We should do the same from the Norwegian point of view, and it must be a goal to move forward with it from the Nordic side. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, namely, the very essence of the foundation itself, namely that it is special with Nordic solidarity that we have common interests and common values in many ways. We have common interests related to defence cooperation and the challenges in the north, in relation to Russia, among others, but there is also a common popular anchoring in a common culture, a common sub-publicity, and even common values between the Nordic countries. I would like to make a comment that one thought it was difficult with the slightly different assessments that were made with Norway on the one hand and Denmark, Finland or Iceland on the other: A get to try Romania then, if one thought it was a terrible distance from Denmark! So I thought we'd think even further in the years that come, when it comes to Nordic cooperation. We have common values and common interests that can increase interest in defence and security cooperation, but also our role in the global image gives me strong arguments for closer Nordic cooperation on it. Let me briefly explain that. Firstly, in international politics, the Nordic region stands for some common values where we often promote positions in the same direction. In international human rights work, in matters of other liberal values and in matters of disarmament, there is often a common position, or rather a common position. But then we also have a common economic experience and a relatively similar economic model, which is now a huge interest in international, whether it is in the world's economic forum or that the Foreign Affairs Committee could see that it was, on our journey in Asia recently. And using the interested political to be an actor in the international economic debate is also important. Now it's like the Nordics actually have some cooperation when it comes to this, for example. within the IMF and the World Bank, together with the Baltic countries. We could have that in other contexts too. I also think a lot of people underestimate how strong a voice in the Nordic region will be at international level. Our economy will be the eleventh or twelveth largest if we see him internationally, and by virtue of quite a common political stance, we can play a heavy role. But there is also another reason why Nordic cooperation can be of greater interest globally in the future. For approx. For 40 years, NATO made it impossible for Nordic cooperation to have a heavy dimension. Then the EU took over to make it impossible for a few years. But everyone who wants to see now knows that neither NATO nor the EU will be the dominant actors in global international policy for decades to come. Important, of course, but new states, new regions, a new global image appear, and if we want the Nordics to play a heavier role, it's a huge space for both value and economic. So I just have to end by saying that I see very positively that so many parties and such a large size now end up having a political thinking in that direction SV has been in this area for many decades. The Conservative Right is somewhat more reserved – it lies in the nature of the party, I would say. But it is positive that the Nordic countries now have a more prominent role in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e651	The last post, by the representative Solhjell, tempts me over the ability to score a cheap political point. I'll leave it. I believe what we have seen in this area is the result of a change in the world, the Nordics have changed, and Norwegian policy has changed – also the role of SV in Norwegian policy and Norwegian foreign policy. Now leave it. I want to link some thoughts to the interpellant, which I think is very important. One is linked to Nordic cooperation, the other is linked to Norwegian defence and security policy. There has been almost a revolution in the Nordic agenda in this area. If you look back just 10–15 years, it was not allowed to talk about security policy and foreign policy in the Nordic context. Today, we experience that foreign and security policy is perhaps the area where it happens most, and where there is most dynamism in Nordic cooperation. It's a pleasure, but it also tells us something about the world and the Nordics having changed. I would like to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs for having taken the lead on the basis of the Stoltenberg report initiative and now the report's recommendations in finding out what is common Nordic benefit in foreign and defence policy. A lot of concrete common Nordic benefits have been found, which I will not go into here, which have been thoroughly affected both by the inter-pellant and the foreign minister in their contributions. But it is a clear signal that it is now time to fully lift foreign and defence policy into the Nordic cooperation between governments and between parliaments. I therefore believe that the time is ripe to assess whether we in the Nordic Council of Ministers should have a Foreign and Defence Policy Council as we have in other key policy areas, and would ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to assess that issue more closely. Then it is gratifying to record that much is happening in practice; it concerns both crisis management, civil and military, preparedness, exercise, etc. What the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence affected, namely point 13, the Declaration of Solidarity and Defence Cooperation, is, after all, the most demanding of the areas affected by the suspension of the Stoltenberg report. Nevertheless, on the part of the Christian People’s Party, we believe that this is a point that should be pursued. I have a different starting point than the representative Eriksen Soreide. I believe that if something is to happen in this area, all countries must become members of the EU and all countries become members of NATO, an effective stop has been put in place to ensure that something is done at all. It may well be that that's what Right – I don't think so, but it will be the effect of such a conclusion. What, in my view, must be at the bottom of the matter is a fundamental and mutual respect for the fact that countries have opted for differences in relations with NATO and the EU, and one has to ask: what can be achieved by complementary cooperation, given that countries have different forms of association? The Stoltenberg report points out that such possibilities actually exist. From our point of view, there should be no doubt that Norway's form of association with the EU and Norway's membership of the NATO Alliance are fundamental prerequisites for the granting of pre-emptive rights in relation to Nordic cooperation and its development in this area. But it has not been said that this is incompatible with some kind of Nordic solidarity. We want to see that idea developed further. We support the government's work on this, in dialogue with the other Nordic countries, and I am sure that the Norwegian Government will show the necessary respect for the different positions of the other countries and the necessary loyalty to our own position.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e664	What made me speak today was Bendiks Arnesen's call to participate in the debate and make recordings. There is a lot that has changed in Nordic cooperation since I grew up in the 1970s and had my first foreign trip to Sweden – exotic as it was when I went to Sweden to camping. Today, you cannot move around Oslo without a good introduction to the new Norwegian dialect Swedish! I would first like to comment on that with defence cooperation and a declaration of solidarity, which the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee also touched on in its statement. And I just want to say that I could sign on to all the representative Høybråten said in that context. I think the Højbråt had a very good post. As I hear the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee say, we should work together on very specific issues: we should participate in Afghanistan and stand up for each other together, we should just not say it out loud. I think that is a passive strategy. I think that a declaration of solidarity within Nordic cooperation really is to say what we would do in a crisis situation, that we would stand up for each other. In many ways, you can say that Nordic cooperation has been just like Ronny Deila did in the Power Plant: you have managed to make gold out of graystone! And I want to link a comment to Arnesen's points around the maritime industry. Because it's clear that there's a concern: what's going on now, and what's going to happen in the future around shipping in the north? Sometimes I've been thinking, is it going to be possible, in the vast sea areas that we're talking about, in the Arctic Ocean, in the Barents Sea, in the Norwegian Sea, i.e. in areas of thousands of square kilometers, to have a preparedness that makes life not lost if there's an accident? Is that actually possible? If you look at the maritime traffic in those areas, you can divide it as follows: it is the inhabitants themselves who live and live in those areas, for example. on Svalbard. They might be the ones I'm least concerned about. They live in a harsh nature to day, they know how to deal with it, and they usually know how to behave afterwards. Then you have the adventurers, like Børge Ousland, who travel around to demonstrate climate change and that thing. Some of them may not expect a standby if something happens, or they are at least well trained to be able to take care of themselves in many ways. You also have kayaking paddlers who, of course, get help from the employee when the polar bear comes. But the adventures are a different category. Then you have the large tourist ships, which may have between 20 and 3000 passengers, who sail daily around Svalbard. And then you have the international commercial shipping that has now found new sailors from Asia to Europe. Ten-twelve ships have probably gone there this year on a commercial basis. I want to say – to get to the point: Yes, we need Nordic cooperation, we need new monitoring systems, and we need better navigation, so that it is possible to have up-to-date maps of these waters. We also need the Nordic Council and we here to follow the work of the International Maritime Organisation, because I believe that looking at safety and preparedness in the north, you have to be able to save yourself first and foremost. That is a fact, and that is some of what I also believe the Nordic Council delegation and the Nordic Council should be involved, namely the work of the International Maritime Organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e679	It is easy to agree with both the representative, Solhjell, and the representative, Højbräten, when you start to say that perhaps the most interesting thing about Nordic cooperation is now foreign and security policy. I would also like to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the work he has done both to facilitate the Stoltenberg Declaration, and not least to try to find even more common interest and common benefit in a foreign and security cooperation at Nordic level. For what the foreign minister said was that Stoltenberg was asked to think for 10–15 years in the future and at the same time to be a djerv. It is thus tempting to say that I wish the government would have wanted to do so here in Norway too, not only when it was about Nordic cooperation. Because that mouth in, just 13 points were where the majority of them were not only concrete but also practical, which promises very well for their follow-up. And I expect a quick follow-up, both in relation to the Nordic Council and in relation to Nordic ministers, and that Stortinget is also kept constantly informed about what is going on. It is worth noting that the Nordic region as a geographical area is very large, but at the same time sparsely populated. This means that from a security and defence point of view, it is both very expensive to exercise and defend the area alone, and also to exercise powers. None of our countries will have the opportunity to manage economically the technology that we are now facing. It is worth taking a tour of the defence cooperation between the United Kingdom and France, two allies and former rivals over a long period of time. A budget cut of dimensions is provided in the United Kingdom, which also demonstrates the importance of public opinion in the United Kingdom in finding common arenas, in this case with France. I think that if you had asked the plain British just a few years ago if it was possible to have a carrier cooperation with France, the share that answered yes would have been very small. The same would be true of the French side. I think it is not only important, but also desirable to see a much closer cooperation on the Nordic side – in addition to what we see today in the field of fighter aircraft, in addition to what we see in relation to artillery systems. To a much greater extent, we need to look at planning, training and further procurement of both civil control systems and not least military systems. We see climate change with all clarity in the northern regions. I am very pleased that the interpellant – which is to be praised for taking up the theme – also attracts ship traffic and the enormous possibility of shipping, but not least the formidable backside of a disaster that an accident in the northern regions will be. There is no doubt that the more ships that go especially east along Russia, the greater is the possibility of accidents. This is an area that will have varying iris ratios for a long time to come, making it very risky to travel in the area. But nevertheless, the economic reasons for choosing that particular ship's trail will be so great that we will see a large increase in traffic. And I fully agree with those who then want closer Nordic cooperation. But above all, I want closer Nordic and Russian cooperation in relation to both control mechanisms and rescue tasks. Let me end by saying that from the Right – I experienced that, among other things. The representative Solhjell and, in part, the representative Højbräten also expressed doubts about this – we say a clear yes to increased Nordic cooperation. We welcome it, and we are active proponents for it. But that doesn't mean that we want or are going to escalate our NATO exposure – on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e694	I think it is an important matter that the interpellant has traveled here today, and I also think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has given a good and complementary response to the challenges we face. I was so lucky to be present at the Nordic Council for the first time, as an alternate, and I have to say that there were very good meetings. Now I don't have a prerequisite to comment on the previous meetings, but I think it was focused on a lot of important things. I want to take a little bit of what concerns military cooperation. I agree with the report that the Nordic countries should strengthen military cooperation, both in terms of transport, sanitation, education, materials and training. Several of these areas are also mentioned in the report to the Finnish, Swedish and Norwegian Defence Managers, and the starting point for these proposals is the large and increasing cost of acquiring modern defence technology. We have to take that seriously. These developments have led to individual units becoming so small that they fall below a critical limit. In such a situation, it is natural, for example. for small countries, to assess even stronger cooperation on, inter alia, acquisitions, maintenance, exercises and not least training. The alternative to such cooperation could be a development where the small ones remain alone and the medium-sized countries lose the ability to hold their own, credible defence. This is a situation we have to take seriously. I think the report is good in many areas, and it also touches on things that are important to focus on in a Nordic perspective. So a little bit about declaration of solidarity. Nordic governments should have a mutual security policy — a declaration of solidarity — in which they are committed to clarify how they would react if a Nordic country were subjected to an external attack or pressure. This is important in such a context. I should also like to touch on another issue that the interpellant raised, which many have touched on here today, namely the debate on the possible increase in oil and gas production in the northern regions. I think there is very little focus on the increased shipping traffic in the northern regions and what it can lead to. That is why I think it is important to update that debate even more. I'm not so worried about an increase in oil and gas production and what it will bring with it, but I'm worried about the shipping traffic that is already there and will continue to grow in the time to come. I think that, as the interpellant was also involved, more should be concerned. I might also call for a stronger commitment to the environmental protection organisations. I'm going to claim that fixed oil and gas installations in the near vicinity represent such a major pollution hazard as those ships that operate with different types of cargo, which is becoming increasingly common in these areas. We also need to be able to set ourselves up to make good use of the opportunities open to new activities and to settle in the north. When we look at housing, I assume, without covering it, that the situation is similar to other places like in the Nordic countries, that you become more and more centralised. People move out of the northern areas and into more central urban areas. If I don't remember correctly, it's actually about that. 9 pst. the population of the country lives in the northern areas or in the northern part of Norway. I think that's a cross of thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e707	There have been some references to debates both in the Nordic Council and in other contexts. I've also had the opportunity to participate there. So to the representative, Solhjell: When he expresses his enthusiasm for now discussing security policy in the Nordic Council almost freed from NATO cooperation, I must remind you that it is precisely because Finland is now out of the sphere of interest of the former Soviet Union, which just made it impossible for the powerful neighbour to discuss defence and security policy. So, from this point of view, there are signs of normalisation between these countries. It is also true that Europe has been exceptionally well served by its two major security systems throughout the post-war period, namely EU membership – for those with it in full – and the Atlantic Pact, NATO, which Norway has been in since 1949. So there are two safety systems that have served Europe very well together. That's why I'm a little worried when some speakers, both from the Workers' Party and SV, say that, especially at a time when the global security threats are quite intrusive, suddenly find pleasure in leaning on local security arrangements. There are some — perhaps also the inter-pellant — who are a little bit top-notch in their description of what can be achieved by developing a Nordic safety system. Then I get a little worried, because the historical experience is not good at all. In modern times, therefore, two countries, if we stick to the North, have been occupied by a central European power, another has been attacked once by an Eastern European power power and has also fought another war. I remember the Red Army standing on Bornholm another year after the end of the war. If we also draw the experiences of the three Baltic countries, which we should definitely do in a Nordic perspective, they have 70 years of experience in integrating into the Soviet system. I would also like to take the opportunity to report to the Baltic Council for Stortinget, where I had the pleasure of participating on behalf of the Nordic Council. These countries, which are now relatively new members of NATO, place their full trust in Article 5 of the Atlantic Charter. They are not as enthusiastic about declarations of solidarity as they may be about the extent to which this guarantee extends. Then, too, guarantees and declarations of solidarity that overlap will weaken them, so that the sum is less security than they could have involved individually. I think we're going to put a lot of emphasis on that. If you think, and that was also Right-wing speeches by Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, that there is a need to strengthen security cooperation in the Nordic region – many of us say that it works well with the two security systems we have today – and if you say that it is a vacuum, then of course the answer is that those who are not yet in the EU should join, and those who are not yet in NATO should join. Because then we have two systems that already work very well together. As this debate has run off from farms, I must say, in particular from the reference to our current NATO relationship as the old good of thought, old tanks, and that various alliances must not prevent us from having these statements between good neighbours, that in the light of this understanding and what expectations have also been expressed in relation to the 13th Stoltenberg report. the point of a Nordic declaration of solidarity, it would have been unbelievably clarifying for the Great Britain of Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre had come up here and said that this declaration of solidarity is simply not a good idea, not because it is borne out of some bad purpose, but simply because it derails from what is important in defence and security cooperation in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e722	I would like to thank both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the representatives here in Stortinget for a good debate, and also thank you for the very good reception of the interpellation with all those who have spoken. The Foreign Minister's signal to the representatives of the Magnificent to keep this debate alive in the time to come, I think everyone has understood and will take part in the further work. I also think that the debate has been exciting throughout the area in a good way, and with good input. I agree with the representative of Kielland Asmyhr that this year's session in the Nordic Council was very good. He says it was the best in his year in the Nordic Council. I would say it was the best in my nine years in the Nordic Council. I believe that the debate on the Stoltenberg report and the related questions were strongly contributing to such a lively debate at the Nordic Council. I therefore believe that this debate contributes strongly to the vitalisation of the Nordic debate and Nordic cooperation. I think the representative Eriksen Soreide had a lot of interesting and important points, but I'm not of those who see that it's a big problem that the Nordic countries have different positions in terms of NATO and the EU. Cooperation in the Nordic region on these issues appears to be nothing but important cooperation. The representative, Tetzschner, says that I'm maximum in my formulations. Yeah, maybe I am, but I don't see any contradictions in active engagement from each country, from the other members, while cooperating on these issues at Nordic level. I will not force all Nordic countries into the EU and NATO to cooperate more closely between the Nordic countries. I agree with the representative, Højbrätten, that otherwise in the world, change means that we in the Nordic region must work even more closely together. In fact, I believe that Nordic cooperation has never been as important as it is now, when we look at the world around us, and so I also interpret the representative Højbrätten in what he said. Thank you again for a good debate. This is probably a theme we get plenty of opportunity to get back to in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e739	Thank you again for the inter-pellant and thank you for a good debate. I think it's an interest and a curiosity about what's now happening in the Nordic region, in this room, which is important and promising. Short for this with shipping: I fully agree that it is a central theme. It is also a subject that we must pursue fully in the Arctic Council, which is now developing binding legal areas for search and rescue, including: So, to say it a little bit eaten, it's a pleasure to be able to disappoint the representative Tetzschner. He does not receive the clarification on the platform he asked for, namely whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs is putting forward proposal No. 13 dead. What he gets, on the other hand, is a deepening of the need to continue the conversation about what's in it, and what can be common interests. And it is not until the five Nordic countries feel that this is a safe platform, that they will move on with it. I think the politically interesting thing about this debate is how the Right has approached that issue – as the only party in this Chamber, with the perspective that if everyone becomes a member of the European Union, we will solve this, and everyone becomes a member of NATO. You can take that as your point of view. I personally share that view for one of the countries with regard to one of the organisations. But as an approach to security policy here and now, I think it's static, and if it's the interpretation of conservative policy, I think it's retrospective and not forward looking. Other conservative politicians in the Nordic region, namely the foreign ministers in Sweden, Finland and Denmark, have a somewhat more searching relationship. With regard to the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs, he emphasises the major changes that have occurred in Sweden. The wording currently used by the Swedes is in the direction that Sweden cannot be indifferent or neutral if one of the other European or Nordic countries is attacked. Some would argue that it's kind of natural that you don't want to be unaffected by it. I would say that in all our discussions on this declaration of solidarity by the Norwegian side, Article 5 is established. There is a bottom line in Norwegian security policy, and it is going to be repeated and reinforced at the Lisbon meeting in NATO this weekend. But it is interesting that our Swedish and Finnish friends are quite sophisticatedly integrated into NATO operations already, as Norway is in EU operations. On the Finnish side, I also experience an interest related to this, but also there a desire to discuss it further, so that we have a anchoring and can meet correctly on the day we can develop it further. For the Danes, the fact is that they have reservations about EU security cooperation on the Danish side, which sets a special framework around the Danish situation. As far as Iceland's reaction is concerned, I do not share the view of the representative Eriksen Soreide that it is negative to all Nordic. On the contrary, we meet there with an interest in going on with it. In sum: we're going to work on this question, have debate on it, not hasten us, seek anchoring. To the representative, Højbrätten, the question of a separate body for foreign and security policy: I think the Nordic Council should come back and have opinions on that. As I said in Iceland, we already have a good contact with the Bureau that ensures a anchoring – but like new thoughts about that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e762	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e778	The Kashmir conflict is in many ways a forgotten conflict. The world's TV viewers and readers know that it exists, but they care little, and the journalists are struggling to find new angles to the conflict. However, there is a very important conflict. Without the Kashmir conflict being resolved, there will be no peace between India and Pakistan, both of which are nuclear powers. The two neighbouring countries have fought two warriors, one mini-war and several near-wars over the area, and both today claim the area. The importance of peace between India and Pakistan can hardly be exaggerated. Without peace, it will be difficult to remove the war hazard between India and Pakistan. Without peace, the suffering of the civilian population in Kashmir is likely to continue. And without peace, finding a peaceful solution in Afghanistan will also be a turning point. The Kashmir conflict is about something more than India and Pakistan. It's about the cashmere, including probably a majority who want self-government or to become part of Pakistan. It is about their human rights, which are constantly broken by militant groups, or — to a greater extent — by Indian security forces. These representatives of the world's greatest democracy are fast on the trigger and unyielding to defeat the slightest form of resistance in their struggle against militant supporters of Kashmir's independence. It is therefore extra pleasant that there is a broad political commitment on the Grand Duchy of Kashmir and to resolve the conflict. I am delighted to lead the Kashmir Inter-Political Committee on the Stortinget, with the participation of all parties. In my leadership, I have Snorre Valen from the Socialist Left Party, which is a clear expression of the broad opening up of the Kashmir Committee. For the Committee, it is a task to strengthen the knowledge of Kashmir in the Norwegian political environment and to promote a fair and lasting solution to the conflict in Kashmir. Norway must actively contribute to the international community doing what it can to resolve the conflict. That's why I look forward to this discussion here in Stortinget. I hope the debate can focus on what we can do now. Let me repeat my core message: ‘Since 1989, the conflict of control over Kashmir has led to the death of 80 000 to 100 000 people. Local leaders in Kashmir have stated that the conflict in the region can no longer be resolved through bilateral talks between India and Pakistan, and they have asked the world community to play a more active role. An increasing number of observers also point to the relationship between the situation in Kashmir and Afghanistan. Many claim that it will be impossible to create stability in Afghanistan before resolving the issue of Kashmir’s future.’ My question, then, is what the Foreign Minister's assessment of the conflict is, and the opportunities of Norway and the Nordic countries to contribute to finding a solution. I want to underline our starting point. We know the United Nations resolutions of 1948 on Kashmir, and the importance they place in bringing an end to armed strife and instead having the dispute over Jammu and Kashmir settled through a free referendum. The UN stressed from the outset that continuing the conflict could threaten international peace and security. We base this on and regret that this UN peace recipe has not been followed up in such a way that the conflict is resolved today. I would like to see a more active role on the part of the United Nations in this work ahead. But we also believe that the major acts – and other countries – can make a positive contribution to supporting the work of the UN. A few days ago, the president of the United States, Obama, was on an official visit to India. It was very exciting if he would then create a movement in the Kashmir process. Based on what is publicly known, it doesn't seem like the United States took the initiative. A clear wish of the parties could make this possible, but unfortunately such a situation did not exist. We believe it is in the interests of both India and Pakistan to resolve the Kashmir conflict. It will strengthen the opportunities for these countries to meet other major challenges they face. For India – which has ambitions to become a member of the UN Security Council – the resolution of the Kashmir conflict will be a great advantage. India is the world's largest democracy and will receive credit for a solution that opens the borders and guarantees the human rights of the Kashmiri people. For Pakistan – which has major internal and large border areas against Afghanistan – the resolution of the Kashmir conflict will mean that it will be much more able to invest resources in economic and social development that benefit Pakistan most and promote political stability and increased security in the Afghanistan border area. It is also important for the international community to resolve the Kashmir conflict. Not least, it can provide better conditions for concerted action in the fight against terrorism. Former President Bill Clinton once called the Kashmir conflict the world's most dangerous conflict. He did that for good reason. Millions of people in Kashmir suffer because of the unresolved conflict. Many are dead. Life's still going down. We must show solidarity with the people of Kashmir. The unresolved conflict also threatens peace in the region. Both India and Pakistan are large countries with significant military capabilities. The risk is extra big because the outbreak of a new war in the worst case could trigger the use of nuclear weapons. In addition, the unresolved conflict is a brake pad in the fight against terrorism. The Kashmir conflict is a very delicate issue both in India and in Pakistan. Kashmir was never an integral part of India, said the Indian author Arundhati Roy. This resulted, inter alia, in: in that the opposition party Bharatiya Janata Party went so far as to demand that the author be thrown into prison for incitement. The author's criticism was also about the actions of the Indian authorities in a state where over 100 people have lost their lives in anti-India protests only since June this year. This week the Indian Minister of the Interior said quite rightly that Roy is not going to be arrested, but only the claim in itself says his. It is not enough to recommend to the United States and President Obama to address the Kashmir conflict when he is in contact with the leaders of Pakistan and India. And others have to figure out what they can do. And it's our duty and our task to ask us what Norway and the Nordics can do. Last week I had a meeting with Pakistan's new ambassador here in Norway. He pointed to Norway as a peacemaking nation that has contributed very positively to many conflicts. What can Norway do to resolve the Kashmir conflict? Finally, I would like to underline a point that can easily be forgotten. The Kashmir conflict must not be attempted at the head of the people of Kashmir without their participation. They too must be involved in a process that will lead to a fair and lasting peace settlement. We condemn all violence, torture and terror that perpetrate innocent people in Kashmir. We're impatient, and we want to speed things up to give them a better future. They've been waiting too long for a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e825	I would first like to thank Mr Hareide for an interpellation on a topic that is not often promoted in the debate, but which is equally central – for the people in and around Kashmir, for support groups here in Norway and for the complex and conflict-filled region of Kashmir. I would also like to commend the representative for a good, profound question, which also contained a lot of analysis, to which I would like to join. Kashmir has been in conflict between India and Pakistan for more than 60 years and has given rise to several wars, and, as the representative said, has been one of the most dangerous conflicts the world has had to deal with in recent years. After some years of greater stability and positive development, the situation has worsened since the summer. As the representative described, the violence has increased since June of this year. In the period from June to September, more than 110 civilians were killed in the Indian-controlled part of Kashmir. Many of them were young people. I share the interpellant's concern about this development. The Indian authorities, too, regret the situation. Norway suggests that human rights standards should be followed by all countries, of course also by India. Young people throwing stones shall not be confronted with sharp shots. At the same time, it is worth recalling that we have equal expectations that human rights are fully respected in Pakistan as well. The background to this current situation is complex: terrorist groups have been training in Pakistan-controlled Kashmir for a number of years. They have crossed the de facto limit, the so-called control line, and performed actions in Indian-controlled Kashmir. This has happened in periods of support from the Pakistani army. India has built up an extensive military presence in Indian-controlled Kashmir, and Pakistan an equivalent presence on its side of the border. There is great frustration among Kashmirn population over a political situation that seems to be stuck. There is also considerable unemployment in Kashmir, especially among young people. The new thing in the fall's riot is that these have mainly occurred locally in Indian Kashmir. In addition to the conflict affecting the people of the region, Kashmir is also spearheading the tension between the nuclear powers of India and Pakistan. That, of course, makes the conflict extra dangerous. Norway follows the situation in Kashmir, not least through our embassies in New Dehli and Islamabad. We discuss the conflict in our conversations, both with authorities and others in both countries, which I myself have done during my visits. The Embassy in New Dehli has addressed the situation in Kashmir with the Indian authorities, both at central level and with the state authorities. The embassy took part in a joint Nordic delegation to Kashmir in April this year. Political issues were then discussed — including the conditions for human rights — with both representatives of the state authorities and the police. In these discussions, we have called on both parties to seek to resolve the conflict by peaceful means and to help avoid new waves of violence, and that the wishes and views of local peoples must be given great importance in a future solution to the conflict. We have faith in such visits that draw attention to the conflict and hold local and central authorities accountable. We have also stressed that Pakistan and India must work towards normalising their general bilateral relations and developing contacts and cooperation between the two countries, regardless of the battle for Kashmir's future. Increased cooperation between India and Pakistan will help the economic development of both countries and could help build trust between them. Although I fully share the concern about the situation in Kashmir, there are also some positive features: firstly, the spiral of violence now seems to have waned. The Indian Prime Minister, Singh, has repeatedly made it clear that the only way to lasting peace and development in Kashmir is through dialogue. A delegation of representatives of all key Indian Parliamentarians, including opposition parties, visited Kashmir in September this year. An eight-point peace plan has been presented by the Indian authorities following this wide-ranging delegation trip. Although not all parties in Kashmir are satisfied with the plan, it represents, in our opinion, an important step in the right direction, that is, back to the dialogue track. The release of prison youths who have participated in demonstrations and rock throws is another step in the right direction. Furthermore, a negotiating group consisting of representatives of civil society has been established. Some of the separatist groupings do not want to talk to these representatives, but it is still too early to cancel this new dialogue track. Secondly, negotiations between India and Pakistan at the overall level have started again. These were launched in 2004, but were put on ice after the Mumbai terrorist attack in November 2008 — an estimate that was planned and carried out from Pakistani territory, and that includes, among others, are linked to groups that have operated out of Kashmir. Over the years, these negotiations have resulted in positive, trusting measures between India and Pakistan. We now have hope that India and Pakistan will seize the opportunity to use this negotiating trail to move forward in solving the outstanding border problems, which go beyond the Kashmir question itself. Thirdly, international human rights organisations seem to be able to visit Kashmir again after the area has been closed to these organisations for some time. The Human Rights Watch organisation visited Kashmir with a delegation in August this year. Nor should we underestimate the influence of Indian media. The situation in Kashmir is discussed daily, and all information helps to inform the public and the debates in this great democracy India about both challenges and possible solutions. So the sum of this is that we get to hope that the parties are based on the positive development that, after all, is tracking, to create a lasting peace in Kashmir and a lasting peace between India and Pakistan. And if this wasn't up, directly advertised, during Obama's visit, we're well-known that the U.S. administration has this high on its agenda in the dialogues with India and Pakistan, respectively. In the past, I have said clearly in this Chamber that the international community – including Norway – must do what we can to encourage a positive development in India-Pakistan relations and a final solution to the country's territorial conflict. At the same time, it is the countries themselves, India and Pakistan, that need to take the necessary steps to resolve the conflict. A solution cannot be imposed from the outside. Pakistan and India also have an agreement that a solution for the whole of Kashmir — on both sides of the border — will have to be found through bilateral negotiations, the 1972 Simla Agreement. There are currently significant differences of opinion as to what should be the future of the original Kashmir. Today, Indian Kashmir has democracy and elections, within the framework of the Indian state. However, the original Pakistani-controlled Kashmir is divided into three: firstly, Gilgit-Baltistan, which is integrated into Pakistan, secondly, Azad Kashmir, which according to Pakistan is an independent Kashmir, and thirdly, which Pakistan has given to China, Aksai Chin. At the same time, both Indian and Pakistani Kashmir accommodate separatist groups who want independence for a collective Kashmir. It is argued from India that their willingness to enter into negotiations with Pakistan is conditional on their willingness to prevent Pakistani territory from being used to plan and carry out attacks against India. The negotiation process is therefore fragile. However, there are no alternatives to such negotiations, and the international community must fully support them. This also applies to the UN, to which the representative was addressed. Finally, the inter-pellant points out that many claim that ‘establishing stability in Afghanistan would be impossible before resolving the question of Kashmir’s future’. It is clear that the conflicts in the Middle East, Iraq, Afghanistan and Kashmir have had, and have, a mobilising effect on some groups in the Afghan conflict. We have seen that radical Islamists have fought in several of these conflicts. And we can also see the traces of the Kashmir conflicts lifted into the Afghan territory and formally fought there as part of the fighting also between India and Pakistan. But when that is said, I think we should be careful to conclude that peace in one region, or in one of these countries, is directly dependent on the solution in another. A positive development in one or more of these conflict areas can certainly contribute to a certain degree to mitigate the conflict in other areas, but there is no automatic approach here. At the same time, we can only wish for peace in these areas and be sure that it will be psychologically important in a region characterised by many conflicts. But the causes, as I have pointed out, are many and complex. I also discussed the issue of Afghanistan and regional stability with my colleagues during my journey to the region earlier this year. Finally, on Norway's role: In the case of negotiations, my experience of travel in the region has been that I am often encouraged by Pakistani representatives that Norway should take on a mediation role between Pakistan and India. The clear call is just as clearly met by a clear message in India that this is a bilateral issue. If you're going to play such a role, if you have assumptions for it, you're going to have to want it from both sides. I feel that India is very clear that it is the bilateral track, the bilateral political contact, that needs to get results here. Nevertheless, Norway will be committed to contributing in the way that we can, although there is no basis for any Norwegian involvement that brokers or facilitates in this area. We also contribute in contact with the countries of the region, and not least with the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e874	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very good report, and in particular what the Minister of Foreign Affairs concluded by saying, that Norway must contribute in the way that we can in this work. I think that is very important. Then I thought it was a good deal that also addresses some of the issues associated with this, including: the significance of the Kashmir conflict for the unrest we also see in other parts of this region. I think it's interesting, when we know about the focus and the attention that Afghanistan gets, to see the lack of interest that this conflict has. I would also like to raise another point, because I noticed that the Foreign Minister used the word 'parties'. It is easy to say that it is the parties that have to resolve this conflict – and it is in the explanation given by the Foreign Minister that Pakistan has shown a willingness to find a peaceful solution. They have also pointed out, as the Foreign Minister himself said, that Norway can play a role, while India points to the bilateral conflict. Then is my question to the Foreign Minister: Is there a particular responsibility on the one side to come to the negotiating table and show greater will? Then I'm just thinking about India. So to, as I was also going to, Obama's visit. I'm glad that the U.S. administration takes this up, and it's possible that this matter was also up in the internal meeting. Obama also publicly stated that the United States would not take on any special role, but appealed to the parties themselves to make progress in the matter. I think there is a need for a stronger international press, especially against India, but also against Pakistan to find a peaceful solution. I want to point out that while time goes by, it is also important that we get to work along – let's call it – a humanistic line. I am thinking of practical measures to improve the life situation, security and human rights of those living in the area. I think Norway must, as the Foreign Minister says, do what we can. I think there is now a special responsibility on India to come to a stronger negotiated solution in this conflict, and will the Foreign Minister challenge it: is there now a particular responsibility on India in this conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e889	I'm not here and now in a position to, and not willing to, point to India with a special responsibility. I want to use the wording that the parties, and then I believe India and Pakistan – and I also want to stress the importance of drawing with the people of Kashmir – are responsible. Listening to Indian representatives, you can get a very systematic case that exposes India's terrorist challenge, Pakistani illegality, which puts Indian security forces to great test. Similarly, Pakistani productions which refer to the lack of momentum towards the clear status of Kashmir and the use of violence by the safety authorities can be listened to. I believe that pointing out that one of the parties has a special responsibility actually weakens our ability to push both parties. I think what's the way to go now is two tracks. One is that what I interpret as a clear will from the Indian Prime Minister, namely to continue the dialogue between India and Pakistan and get it into a broader and more committed, deeper political path, must continue – hopefully without the interruptions that the Mumbai terrorist action led to. It must not happen again. At the same time, Pakistan must demonstrate in practice that groups do not emerge from Kashmiri areas, which again affect India. So, both parties have a rich agenda to address on each side to create both trust and prosperity. So I think, as the representative says, it's important to have international attention on the topic, in the UN, in a regional context and in relation to the United States – but also other actors in the region. This reminds me a little of Afghanistan; there is no solution to the particular conflict without neighbouring countries being involved and building up under it. So, yes, a responsibility for the parties, but I don't think it will serve this development that Norway chose one of the parties and said it had a special responsibility. They must work together to get this issue closer to finding a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e898	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for putting the Kashmir conflict on the Storting agenda. It is a conflict that affects the regional balance of power. There is a conflict of several Northmen with a background in the region with concern and interest. There are two reasons Kashmir is calling for an international commitment, which both the inter-pellant and the foreign minister have been involved in. One reason is the conflict itself. For nearly 60 years Kashmir has been a conflict area, with three warriors, a strong military presence and repeated frictions and confrontations between India and Pakistan. The conflict undermines the fundamental human rights of the 10 million people living there. There's an assault, a lot of people have lost their lives, and others have just disappeared after being arrested by armed groups. In addition, many have been hit humanitarianly by the instability that has led to the conflict. A peaceful solution will lay the basis for giving these people dignity back. The second reason is that the conflict contributes to the strengthening of conflicts in the region. As the interpellant pointed out, the instability in Kashmir contributes to instability in Afghanistan. It is both Indian and Pakistani presence in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is also becoming an arena for the conflict between the two countries. The Pakistani Foreign Minister's spokesman has explicitly claimed to have strong evidence that India is using Afghanistan against Pakistan's interests and to destabilise Pakistan. In turn, the Indian authorities see a clear link between repeated attacks at the Indian Embassy in Kabul and Pakistan's intelligence. There is also reason to question whether Pakistan is doing enough to deal with the space they provide the Taliban in Pakistan territory. The argument about a dangerous India makes it easy for Pakistan to argue why they should not have better control over the Afghanistan crossings. Of course, it is not that a solution in Kashmir or Afghanistan will have an automatic impact on the conflict in Afghanistan, as stated by both the inter-pellant and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. To that, the conflicts are too complex. The mistletoe between countries is deep. When last year the Foreign Affairs Committee was in Geneva and had a lunch meeting where, among other things, the Pakistani ambassador was present and the theme was disarmament, the Pakistani ambassador claimed that India is now arming itself to wage war against Pakistan and China at the same time. It says a lot about how deep the mistrust and the mistrust are. Conflicts help to reinforce and complicate each other. I think we all share the impatience after reaching a peaceful solution for Kashmir. But I would like to stress, as did the inter-pellant and the foreign minister, the importance of a future solution being anchored in order to have legitimacy. It has a bearing on its sustainability. This means that it will not be lucky for Kashmir’s future if a third party assumes a self-appointed role without ensuring that this has the necessary anchoring. There are three parties to which it must be anchored. It is the people of Kashmir in all their diversity – Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs and Christians – as well as the authorities of Pakistan and the authorities of India. Without this anchoring, an international pressure on propulsion will be unsustainable, and I think we should warn against that. We have had some experience of how demanding it is – yes, almost how impossible it is – for others to resolve conflicts for them, without it being anchored, and that the parties will. That is why I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that there is no alternative to talks and negotiations between India and Pakistan, and that is why we must encourage and support these talks. It's an important way to go. But the degree of success depends on the genuine willingness of both parties to get help in these conversations and on the fact that the parties consider the help that they wanted, unhindered and lost. In parallel with encouraging conversations, we can of course contribute on the ground level. This is done by providing support to international organisations such as the Red Cross Committee and the International Crisis Group, which are following developments and reporting on human rights violations, and by supporting the South Asia Free Media Association, which is working for the transparent flow of information to help increase mutual trust between the parties. In sum, this is a small but important step in the right direction of a peaceful solution for Kashmir.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e917	I want to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic. Until 1947, Pakistan was a part of India, and India was a British colony. In the context of decolonisation, it was decided that the area should be divided into two. The part where the Muslims were in majority became Pakistan, while the Hindus got India. Kashmir was given the choice of joining either one or the other of the two new states. The largest area, called Jammu and Kashmir, had mainly a Muslim population, but was then ruled by a maharaja, which was Hindu. When it became known that the maharaja had the desire to join India, there broke out riots in the Muslim part of the population, and the maharaja asked India for assistance. India intervened, which led to the Muslim community receiving support from the Pakistani, and there was war in 1948. The UN negotiated a ceasefire agreement in 1949, and the area was divided into two – one Pakistani and one Indian controlled part. The United Nations observation team arrived in Kashmir in January 1949 to monitor the ceasefire agreement. The observatory is still there, and since 1947 the two countries have fought at least three wars over Kashmir. The conflict in Kashmir and the various actors involved constitute a regional security complex where several of the world’s major acts, such as India, China, Pakistan and Iran, meet. In other words, it means that the conflict and the actors cannot be seen detached from other conflicts in which the same parties are involved. It makes it harder to come up with a solution, but not less important, because both Pakistan and India are nuclear powers. India has officially stated that they consider Kashmir to be part of India, based on the maharaja's consent to join the country in 1947. India further claims that Jammu and Kashmir are granted considerable autonomy in the Indian Constitution, and that the area is a naturally integrated part of India. Pakistan claims that the Maharaja that handed Kashmir over to India in 1947 was not a leader recognized by the people, and that Indian troops were in Kashmir before the truce agreement was signed, which was a violation of this. Pakistan believes that the people of the region must choose their own way, and has repeatedly accused India of human rights violations in Kashmir. When Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari declared in October 2008 that the freedom fighters in Kashmir were terrorists, this condemnation triggered both internally in Pakistan and in Kashmir. According to international human rights organisations, both the Indian military, the Pakistani military, militant separatists and various terrorist groups have violated fundamental human rights. A study conducted by Doctor Without Borders in 2005 concluded that the risk of women in Kashmir being exposed to sexualized violence was higher than in any other part of the world. Those responsible for these abuses should be held responsible for their untruths. President Obama wrote the following in an article in the magazine Foreign Policy in July 2007: ‘I will encourage dialogue between Pakistan and India to work towards resolving their dispute over Kashmir.’ Despite this, the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State, Robert Blake, stated in 2009 that the United States had no intention of appointing a Special Envoy in the conflict, but that countries had to arrive at a bilateral solution. President Obama's recent visit to India confirms the strong links between the two countries, but the United States has been and is also heavily dependent on Pakistan to succeed in Afghanistan. Over the past ten years, the United States has provided Pakistan with both military material and financial assistance to combat terrorist groups in the region. Pakistan is using US support and assistance as a buffer against India, but this is an intention that is not shared by the United States. Pakistan uses military groupings to push India to the negotiating table, while India uses terror as an argument for not negotiating. India was not particularly engaged in Afghanistan until the millennium. This changed around 2002, when the country began to expand hydropower along the Indus River, on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. India, like Iran, also provides assistance to Afghanistan. Pakistan is interested in strategic depth and regards Afghanistan as a possible backbone of the Kashmir conflict. Thus, the country is very concerned about India's increased activity in Afghanistan. According to the Indian Ministry of the Interior, 2008 was the least bloody year of 20 years, with 89 deaths against 1,413 deaths in 2006. Since a safety fence was listed along the divider line, the number of violent estimates has decreased considerably and the number of tourists in the area has increased since the establishment of a separate bus route in 2005. I am not reaching the whole point I had intended to make here today, but it is undoubtedly so that the Progress Party supports the views of Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre that this must be resolved primarily between the parties, namely between Pakistan and India.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e950	Author Ahmed Rashid writes in «Descent into Chaos» that ethnic, linguistic and regional nationalism has split the country into several. It's not a problem to agree entirely. Going back to 1947, it was almost a matter of course for the outside world, following the ethnic and religious majority, that the area would become Pakistani. But as the representative Liljeroth briefly explained, it ended up becoming Indian, thanks to, among other things, The maharaja was Hindu, and not least that India's leader was Nehru from Kashmir. The civilian population of Kashmir suffers. The population lacks fundamental rights. You see a lack of security. You see extensive human rights violations, and while India as a nation has 10 pst. economic growth, there is far too little prosperity and growth in Kashmir. When we take a historical perspective in this area and related to the Afghanistan conflict, it was just fear – the fear of Pakistan – of having an attack on the flank that led to support the Taliban in Afghanistan at first. India has more soldiers in Indian-controlled Kashmir than that of foreign soldiers, both in Afghanistan and Iraq, combined. It puts things in perspective a little bit as to which powder barrel you're talking about here. When Perwez Musharraf joined so strongly in the war on terror, and not least in what became a war against the Taliban, there was also something that was not followed up at all levels of the Pakistani power apparatus, either within the secret services of Pakistan. In India, 750 million has been invested. dollar and promised another 450 million. dollars to Hamid Karzai, who is also a strong Indian, to the country and his government. India is Afghanistan's largest trading partner, and for Pakistan, it has been a countermeasure that India has now opened consulates in both Jalalabad and Kandahar. Looking further at the attack at the Indian Embassy in Kabul in July, a bombing attack that killed 41 people, the U.S. Security Service says they have evidence that Pakistan's Inter-Service Intelligence Directorate was 'involving', as they say. In an interview Joe Klein did with President Obama, Obama pulls out the role he wants to play, and also sees that the United States can play a role in the region. I think it is time for the United States to want and play a role in the area. He then says – and now I release this from a verbatim reading – that the essence is that one looks at the possibility of a special broadcaster, that one appeals to the Indians as a coming economic superpower, and why then carry on with Kashmir in this way. Pakistan is argued that it is better to focus on its own northern areas where there is now free-coupled control and where these are tribal areas that effectively control the Taliban, Al Qaida and others. My approach is that the people have to decide. The civilian population suffers because the situation is as it is. This is an area that, in line with Africa, has got a ruler on a map, and the boundaries were as they were. There were coincidences that prevailed. Few areas are as beautiful as Kashmir. Few areas have greater opportunities for growth and prosperity through tourism, but safety needs to be taken into account. The parties themselves also need help. That help can be given by the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e969	It is a very important interpellation the representative Hareide is promoting, and I am very pleased that this conflict is giving room for debate in the United Kingdom. The conflict in Kashmir has a very long history. It really extends more than 60 years back in time, and it involves three of the world's nuclear powers. Norway also has a very long history of commitment to the situation in Kashmir. In fact, Norway’s first peacekeeping effort in the UN context was the deployment of Norwegian officers in Kashmir to monitor the maintenance of the ceasefire between India and Pakistan. Today, the involvement is held up by several groups and a separate group on the Stortinget, as the interpellant leads. There is no need to take a light view of the human rights situation in Kashmir. That's essentially what I want to talk about. None of the provinces of Kashmir is considered free by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. Serious human rights violations are being committed, and the prospects for a solution to the conflict are challenging, even if there is a flash of light in between. In Indian-led Kashmir, about 400,000 people are internally displaced. Refugees cross the borders both ways and, according to human rights organisations, tell a story of constant fear, hopelessness and widespread acts of violence and threats of violence. A 2005 study conducted by Doctor Without Borders shows, as the representative Liljeroth pointed out, that women in Kashmir are among the most affected by sexualized violence worldwide. 11.6 p.s. of the asked states that they have been subjected to sexualized violence. A number of incidents are reported in which soldiers enter people's homes and commit acts of violence and rape against civilians. The use of sexualised violence in a conflict is at the absolute low level of instruments, and it must be expected that sovereign states, and especially democratic states, will refrain from such actions and do what they can to prevent them and punish those responsible. That has unfortunately not always been the case. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has previously criticised civilian deaths and the lack of freedom of expression and the right to political organisation in Indian-led Kashmir. I share the foreign minister's view that human rights violations should be condemned wherever they are committed in the world, and by whom. All parties to a conflict are responsible for preventing human rights violations and violence. Here everyone in Kashmir has a long way to go. It is unacceptable to accept the formation of groupings operating as an extended arm for the interests of a party in a highly conflicted area. I believe, however, that everyone also agrees that there is a special responsibility on the part of democracies to respect fundamental freedoms and rights. That is what lies within the concept of 'democracy'. Today's situation, in my view, is not compatible with India's ambitions for permanent membership of the UN Security Council, and one could probably also claim that it is beneficial to comply with previous Security Council decisions on the conflict. So it goes without saying that there is no solution to the conflict in acts of violence. Then the strong feeling of hopelessness in the population must be combated. It requires a strengthening of legal protection, freedom of expression and political rights for the inhabitants of Kashmir on all sides of the borders. It is important that Norwegian representatives promote this view in their meetings with representatives of national and regional authorities in the region. Secondly, a solution to the conflict presupposes that Kashmirns are no longer treated as, or experienced themselves as, chips and wasteballs in a major political game. That requires not only an end to oppression and violence, but also a negotiated solution between Pakistan and India reflecting the people's own wishes. The civil groupings in Kashmir must be part of the dialogue leading to a fair and peaceful agreement, for that is the most important prerequisite – a negotiated solution that creates confidence in the people of Kashmir. This population has little experience of trust in government and power apparatus. Such trust building is equally time-consuming and difficult to achieve as a negotiated solution between Pakistan and India and requires as much follow-up and work. Here, Norway has relevant experience, and Norway can make positive contributions, I think. It is in everyone's interest that a fair peace settlement be achieved in Kashmir, and until new UN decisions take place, the starting point must be for everyone to comply with the previous Security Council resolutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e992	The Kashmir conflict is often referred to as the forgotten conflict. There is definitely no reason to forget the Kashmir conflict. There are strong forces involved, and it is therefore gratifying that the representative Hareide places this issue, this conflict, on the agenda of the Stortinge. We have to remember that India and China and the other countries in the region have nearly 3 billion inhabitants, i.e. 40 pst. by the population of the world. The nearest countries are involved in this conflict. We often say that India is the world's greatest democracy. It is important that we do not use either this debate or our approach to this in any other way to decide for or against India or Pakistan. But we note that, in addition to the world's greatest democracy, we also find some of the world's greatest dictatorships in this part of the world. The situation in Kashmir calls for world attention. Violence and violence against civilians take place to an extent that is totally unacceptable. That's why the world's society is facing a big task. Norway should therefore engage — if necessary, more internationally, in particular through the United Nations bodies, so that the situation in the area can be followed more closely than today. In this way, it will also be clarified whether the world society can commit itself more severely to India and Pakistan. As regards the main actors, India and Pakistan, in the Kashmir conflict area, a security guard listed a few years ago along the divider line has led to a decrease in the number of violent estimates. In fact, this has also led to an increase in the number of tourists in the area, especially after the creation of a separate bus route five years ago. India and Pakistan, according to the Indian think tank Council of Research on International Economic Relations, have a bilateral trade potential equivalent to over 11 billion. USD, while current trade with Pakistan is only about 1.65 billion. So USD, that's one-sixth of this. A study carried out by the two Norwegian researchers Eriksen and de Soysa in 2009 by NTNU and PRIO shows that economic freedom, such as: is measured in the Annual Economic Freedom of the World Index, which strongly combines better protection of human rights. More trade and economic relations between India and Pakistan can thus contribute positively to an improved relationship between the two countries, and not least with regard to the relations between these two countries with the Kashmir conflict. It can be boiled down to – as we know from many other conflicts in the world – that countries with extensive economic cooperation often have a much higher threshold for conflict than those who isolate themselves. In conclusion, I would just like to reiterate that the Progress Party is satisfied with the way in which the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs approach this problem, and he has our full support.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1009	As the representative Knut Arild Hareide pointed out quite correctly, it is commendable that there is now a group, which has been called a committee, here on the Stortinget working to increase the knowledge of this dangerous conflict, which many of my colleagues have been involved in. It is also commendable that Knut Arild Hareide has today dragged the matter into Stortinget. It's part of this group's work, and it's affordable. There were many good aspects of the conflict, or bad aspects, to say so, but that the conflict was at all brought into the Chamber, is good. I'm going to try to take a couple-three moments on why the Norwegian parliament, the government and not least we, as a society, should be better involved in this conflict and spend a little more time on it. Firstly, as many have been in the past, the human rights situation in the Indian controlled Kashmir has unfortunately been critical. Many international organisations, Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and others, have criticised violations of human rights. In particular, women have been affected. At one point, there were up to 800,000 men under arms in Kashmir, and human rights were violated. Women were particularly exposed to it. They were directly affected by it. The sexualized violence was too great, and in addition, very many men, husbands, sons and fathers, were killed. This meant that women had to take the burden. There is no well-functioning welfare state in Kashmir – in line with many other countries – and when the man goes away, life becomes very difficult for these women and for the children. So there's a lot of money in both countries going to upgrade the military and equipment. This money is needed in the welfare community in both countries, and in Kashmir in particular. As the Foreign Minister was inside, unemployment is very high. This may become a full-scale conflict at any time. There have been trends, up to several times over the past 30–40 years. That's why it's important that we spend time, increase our knowledge, and get to know this. I would like to say that the Kashmir group here on the Stortinget and also other magnificent representatives should perhaps go to Kashmir, to both sides of the line, to learn about the conflict. So many people have been in this part, about who's responsible for this, whether we can interfere with it, or whether the parties themselves have to solve this. It is quite right that the Foreign Minister was also in, that in 1972 there was an agreement between Pakistan and India to resolve this together. But then 38 years have passed since this agreement was concluded. 100,000 lives have been lost. A lot of women have been raped. Many children have been affected by the conflict. The conflict between these two countries cannot be resolved bilaterally. Then it might be time for the international community to say yes, here we're going to do what we can, and that the pressure on these two countries is increasing to resolve the conflict. First of all, it is the Kashmiri who must be the target group here, those who suffer every day in these two countries. I think we should do a bigger job there. Then there's something that I've also been about and determined: violation of human rights, no matter who does it, it should be turned down. Pakistan has to do its part of the job, so that the rebels don't get in. But it also has to be understood that when there were at some point 800,000 men under the weapon in Kashmir, you can't say that it was just to tackle some hundred, maybe a few thousand rebels from Pakistan. It had to be a dawning, wide, local uprising in Kashmir that required 700,000 to 800,000 men under the weapon. Some should begin to understand that the Kashmiri people in the Indian part of Kashmir are not satisfied with the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1027	I would like to thank you for a very good debate, for a lot of good contributions, yes I would say that I can support all the contributions that have been made during this debate. It has also been good to experience something other than debates on tolls, on something that may be a little more important in this Chamber. Just putting this conflict on the agenda, which many have referred to as the forgotten conflict, and seeing how important he is, I think this debate has done well. I feel that no one is saying that this conflict must be resolved by the parties. But that there is a need for a clearer international pressure to get it done, I think it's important. I want to bring forward what Mr. Svein Roald Hansen so well stated, which is just the case with the third party and the people who live in Kashmir, that a solution that we want to be a peace solution must be built on their premises. They must be involved in this. They're the third party into this conflict. I also want to bring forward what Peter Gitmark brought up, the role of the United States. There's been a bit of a different signal from the U.S. administration, but I'm totally in agreement with what Gitmark says, that here the U.S. has the ability to play a stronger role. Someone asked me what I put in the role of India. Then I want to repeat what I said, because I think it's important. It is important for both India and Pakistan that we resolve the Kashmir conflict. For India, which has ambitions to become a member of the UN Security Council, a solution to the Kashmir conflict will be a great advantage. India is the world's largest democracy and will receive credit for a solution that opens the borders and guarantees the human rights of the Kashmiri people. I also mentioned the meaning of this conflict for the region as a whole, especially in Afghanistan. There is no doubt that a solution here will contribute positively, both because of the challenges we face with terrorism in the region, and because this area is a place where terrorism is unfortunately growing today. The role of Norway has been drawn up. I am therefore pleased with what the Foreign Minister says: Norway must contribute as we can. I also understand from the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this is a conflict that the Norwegian foreign service follows closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1044	Let me again thank the interpellant for raising this question. Then I'll ask a counter question, like summation. Why on earth are Norwegian parliamentarians in peaceful Oslo, in peaceful Norway, concerned about this conflict up in the mountain regions of the region we have now spoken about? Why do we spend time and commitment on it, get involved in the conflict, get involved in it? Well, it's for the simple reason that it affects a wide range of people with whom it's easy to get close to and – let's say – experience. It builds on the fact that we have a political understanding of the importance of this conflict for a much broader pattern of conflict in the region, and, in the last sense, as magnification and government, we perceive that developments in Kashmir can actually also affect our own security in a world so much connected. From that analysis we can lead back again to the fact that there is an involvement in Norway, among many Norwegians, in this room, again in its own groups and also in the government, to do what Norway can to help bring this conflict on to the right track. I think that much of the analysis here today has been good, in the sense that the parties' responsibilities are underlined, in the sense that we have an international right to focus on this. There is another debate on whether involvement in the internal affairs of other countries is involved in issues relating to human rights, refugees, abuses, the spread of unrest and terror. No, we can't view it as interference in internal affairs. It is actually matters for the region and for the world as a whole. I can say that in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at our embassies in the countries in question – they are more than two – but especially in India and Pakistan and through the various international forums in which we participate, we will continue to focus on this conflict and have contact with the Storting about it in the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1055	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1069	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 624]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1085	Proposition 141 L for 2009–2010 is an aggregate proposition with proposals within a range of themes. The position of the Judicial Committee is unanimous. The Committee considers that the proposals will strengthen legal certainty and also contribute to more effective criminal proceedings. Chapters 3 and 4 deal with the grounds for appeal in civil and criminal matters. The Supreme Court has held that decisions to refuse appeals from convictions promoted under the second paragraph of Section 321 of the Criminal Procedures Act must be justified. The Committee therefore unanimously supports the government's proposal for this to be legislated. This will help to strengthen legal certainty and also ensure that Norwegian law is in line with our human rights obligations. The Committee also supports the need for justification to be regulated for appeals in civil matters. In Chapter 5, the Government proposes to lift the requirement of consent from the targeted to remote meetings in prison extension cases and in confession cases. There are opportunities today to implement remote interrogations, but the Committee believes it is a greater potential than is being used today. Police spend a lot of time and resources on transportation to and from prison meetings, and this also poses a certain safety risk. The Committee therefore supports the Government's proposal to remove the requirement that long-term residents have to consent to long-term detention by extension. At the same time, the Committee stresses the importance of some restrictions on the legal certainty of the objectives. This applies, for example, in the case of full isolation, where ordinary court proceedings are to be used, and where ordinary court proceedings are also to be conducted each time 90 days have elapsed since the expiry of the term had the opportunity to present its case in an ordinary court or tribunal meeting. Chapter 7 addresses the follow-up to the Fritz Moen case and the NOU that was handed over in 2007. The acquittal and the criminal charges against Fritz Moen were a waker to the whole of Justice-Norway. Moen was subjected to a double murder of justice, and it is important that we, as politicians and all parts of the criminal chain, learn from the history we have seen. Today, the Stortinget is presented with a comprehensive review of the recommendations made in NOU 2007:7 Fritz Moen and Norwegian criminal justice. Many measures have already been taken and much has been done in recent years to strengthen legal certainty. Among other things, audio and video recordings have been put in place in connection with police interrogations. We've had a DNA reform that's still giving us more hits. We have also received better training from interpreters, to mention some of the measures. Today, the Stortinget is invited to make more legislative decisions to improve legal certainty, and many of the legislative proposals are a direct consequence of the review of the Fritz Moen case. The Committee supports all the amendments proposed in the Criminal Procedures Act, including: that it is explicitly stated that a particular reason for appointing the defender may be that the intended person is disabled or in another mental or physical condition which indicates that there is a specific need to appoint the defender. As politicians, we have a responsibility to do everything we can to avoid the conviction of innocent people and the conviction of the guilty. It is a unanimous committee that supports all the proposals. But let me also stress that laws alone are not enough. In a criminal case, human factors are also involved. Unfortunately, we can never guarantee that anything similar can never happen again. The public body that went through the Fritz Moen case came up with a sharp criticism of the police, prosecution authorities and the role of the courts. The importance of continuous focus, increased awareness and more knowledge cannot therefore be stressed enough. It is therefore a unanimous judicial committee that recommends all the proposals made by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1116	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 624]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1132	Prop. 151 L addresses several changes related to the Administrative Act and the Penal Code. As the rapporteur on the matter, I would like to highlight two main issues. It is the processing of personal data in criminal matters and the transparency of pardons. The first main theme is the privacy of convicted offenders who make a conviction in criminal matters. The starting point for this amendment has a special history. It all started at Ila prison, where one inmate noticed that several of the inmates were immersed in their prison records. One day he asked one of the guards why he spent so much time reading these folders. He replied that he thought it was exciting because many of the prisoners were mentioned in the media. Another day he asked another guard if he thought it was morally right to sit and read in these folders. Then the guard was irritated and reminded the prisoner that he was a custody prisoner and would not care about this. Prison inmates are natural enough to observe much of the day. Observations shall be documented in writing. In addition, large amounts of sensitive personal data are recorded on everything from growing-up and sexual orientation to drug problems or diseases. It is important to have this overview and the observations and assessments in prison. However, prisoners found that all members of the criminal justice system had unrestricted access to information about all prisoners throughout Norway through the COMPIS computer system, regardless of whether they had any connection with these prisoners or not. The inmates at Ila experienced this as an offense and decided to do something about it. Even though they were convicted and sentenced to detention, they felt that they were entitled to ordinary human rights and that the Law on Personal Information also had to apply to them. I fully agree with the prisoners in that. The prisoners were heard after a long fight. And to make a long story short, the prisoners' struggle resulted in the government now proposing to regulate the processing of personal data in a new chapter of the Penal Code. Sensitive data on prisoners shall be accessible for the future only to persons employed in the criminal justice system who are directly in need of them. Rules are introduced on who is responsible for the processing of personal data, the purpose of the processing and on whom criminal services can obtain personal data. A unanimous judicial committee thus believes that privacy will be strengthened both for the convicted and their relatives. The second main theme concerns the transparency of concession cases. When Stortinget dealt with new public law through Innst. O. No 41 for 2005–06, the government was asked to review the existing legislation on pardons, and then to come back with proposals on how to implement more transparency in such cases. It is a general belief that a certain degree of transparency in the treatment of acknowledgment cases contributes to the legitimacy of the acknowledgment institution in order to be able to function. The difficult balance is, of course, what information can be published without infringing privacy. Penalties may lead to the waiver of the sentence or to a reduction of the penalty. Alternatively, a person who has begun to pay his penalty may not be able to pay the penalty, or the penalty may be converted into a probationary sentence. E.g. justifications for admissibility may include: are of a health or family nature and must be said to be of a particularly sensitive nature. A unanimous committee endorses the government's assessment that the right of access to appeals shall relate to information relating to whether or not a named court or fine has been pardoned and the reaction to which it is acquitted. The justification shall not be made public. Finally, I would like to say that it may appear as a paradox that the same proposition proposes changes to the laws that strengthen the privacy of convicted persons in the processing of personal data in criminal matters, while another bill proposes greater transparency, which is at the expense of the data protection of the convicted person. However, with greater transparency in the granting cases, it will be possible to help maintain the trust in the granting institution. It will in the long term be essential for those seeking a pardon.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1155	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 628]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1171	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1180	The institution of asylum shall ensure that persons who have been persecuted are able to seek refuge in a safe place and to ensure that they are properly treated. It is both a moral and legal duty for Norway as a country and for us who live here to be able to offer it. The vast majority share it as a natural, principled starting point, but different conditions make it possible to put it to the test. If the institution of asylum is used and used to commit crime while staying in Norway, the institution of asylum loses legitimacy. Proposalers are concerned that there has been a ‘significant increase in immigration into Norway’ in recent years and that ‘some asylum seekers have been recruited into criminal activities and commit criminal acts while waiting for the asylum application to be dealt with’. According to the proposers, this is due to the fact that the government has had too low a ‘threshold to grant asylum seekers a residence permit for several years’, and that therefore ‘it may seem that many groundless asylum seekers have come to Norway just to commit crime and without a real hope of staying here’. Proposalers address issues related to a recent Supreme Court judgment in which an asylum seeker was sentenced to 18 days' conditional prison for drug retention, while district and law enforcement had sentenced the asylum seeker to 21 days' unconditional imprisonment. In the light of this decision, the proposers propose that the Storting should ask the Government ‘to submit proposals for new provisions of the Penal Code which set out the ‘undermining of the institution of asylum’ as a matter of personal punitive action’. It has been a short time since the penal code was dealt with in Stortinget. Neither from government nor from enlargement was there at that time expressed the desire to introduce this kind of criminal aggravating moment in relation to what is now being addressed. The proposal does not discuss how a general rule of ‘undermining the institution of asylum’ is to be applied in practice. Nor does the proposal distinguish between those who deliberately use the institution of asylum to commit crime and those who commit crime while seeking asylum, without it being planned from the start. In the view of the majority of the Committee, there is a shortage, and the majority of the Committee assumes that there is no possibility of different penalties based on nationality or asylum status compared to Norwegian citizens. In the case-law referred to in the proposal as a background, it is also stated that if it can be proved that the sentence has come to Norway under the pretext of asylum for the purpose of converting drugs into profit-making goods, such a criminal offence would tend to have a more professional character to which it would be relevant to look in the criminal investigation. It is therefore possible, under the law in force, to emphasise in a criminally sharp direction that a person has come to Norway under the appeal of the institution of asylum to commit crime, if this can be demonstrated in the specific case. This was not the case in the referring Supreme Court, and there is an important reason why the majority of the Committee recommends that the proposal is not supported. However, for the Right, we have noticed that the overall level of penalties for selling less quantities of drugs has been reduced over time. There is reason to ask questions about the extent to which this is reflected in the fact that people seeking asylum are more encouraged to commit crime by the fact that such acts are generally punishable less than before, and that this may be an unintended effect on the part of the legislator. The right, with the support of the Progress Party, also questions whether the reduction of criminal sanctions for this type of crime poses challenges for sending out criminal asylum seekers. We believe that the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act must be constantly sought to correspond to the provisions of the Criminal Code in relation to a desire that the institution of asylum not be abused. In conclusion, therefore – once I have the floor – I will take up the minority proposals of the Right and the Advance Party in the vote: ‘The government is asked to explain whether the downward adjustment of the level of penalties for some drug offences poses challenges related to sending asylum seekers who commit this type of crime more quickly, and to promote any proposals to remedy it. In parallel, the investigation is requested whether the penal code should be amended and that the use of the asylum institution should be regarded as a criminal aggravating factor under criminal law.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1200	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1203	There is broad consensus in the Committee that we must combat all forms of attempts to exploit the institution of asylum to commit crime. I just want to confirm that this is a maximum real problem in Oslo areas. At Akerselva, Lower Grünerløkka and Greenland, the Oslo Police report that only this year hundreds of people have been involved in the sale of drugs while they have been asylum seekers. So there is no doubt that the issue that the proposal concerns is real and present in Oslo. There have also been cases in Bergen – and probably also elsewhere in the country. However, there is the question of how the judiciary is going to attack this, which is being discussed here. What is referred to by the rapporteur in the position and by the majority is that, on the one hand, in the above-mentioned Supreme Court judgment, it is exacerbating if, under the appeal of the institution of asylum, crime is committed and this is given a professional character, and of course even more so if it occurs repeatedly, and if it can be considered as part of a form of planned crime. There is no doubt that when it happens in the manner described in the Supreme Court judgment, and is elaborated in the Minister of Justice's reply to the committee, it will be criminally sharp. It's in the law today. However, on the other hand, the Supreme Court also states that when the considerations cannot be proved, individual offenders must be punished individually — assessed on an equal footing regardless of background and the state of the Norwegian community. It's about the general idea of similarity, which I can see is that all parties on the Storting are concerned with defending and standing by. The question is how to maintain the general idea of equality that lies in human rights, which is in the position of our legal system and our legal certainty at all, and combine it with taking action in this area that will work. Then we and the majority believe that it is more right to view the law of foreigners as a tool. As far as the Foreign Affairs Act is concerned, the Government has now submitted proposals for extended residences for those who commit crime and are asylum seekers or are residing there illegally, and for those who lie about identity, and in cases of avoidance, etc. A number of measures have been proposed to intensify our instruments of detention for those who abuse the institution of asylum for crime and for fraud with ID. The proposals to this effect will be promoted in the context of the Foreign Affairs Act. There is also a proposal on the Return Directive now in Stortinget, which also mentions criminal atrocities in relation to having provided incorrect information in foreign affairs on IDs, etc. The question in this case is not whether we should do anything about this, whether we need better warrants, whether it is an important issue, but how to at the same time uphold our principles of equal treatment, and address this problem of equal treatment of people in the judiciary. Penalties should be tightened up when someone has committed professional crime under the auspices of the institution of asylum, and otherwise it should be dealt with by means of intensifications under the Foreign Affairs Act, as if not too much time will be encouraged for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1218	There are two issues involved in this proposal. One is the increasing crime among people who are initially seeking asylum. The second is the asylum institute, which we are concerned about is getting little legitimacy, and that the status is being powdered. There is nothing that has happened just in the context of those who exploit the institution of asylum to commit crime. It has been seen for a long time that many who seek asylum in Norway may not have any real reason to do so. It's also going to be pretty early. But then you get to stay on a different basis. It is worrying, in the view of the Progress Party. And then, of course, I see that there is also a disagreement in the Committee on whether we have had an increase or not in the influx of asylum. With all due respect, that's a question of what time to start comparing. However, there is no doubt that since 1999, when Justice Minister Aure and Bondevik I opened the doors, there has been a significant increase in Norway, with the peak year in 2001 and almost the same number also in 2009. Then we have a decrease this year in relation to 2008 and 2009 – that’s right – but what are we going to compare with? I still believe that the influx of 10,000 asylum seekers to Norway is far beyond what we can handle. For example, the normal number in Norway if we are to compare ourselves with other countries. Denmark, which has made a lot of other restrictive measures, would be down to 2000–3 000, which is where it is. Maybe that's what we should have compared ourselves to. Then it is quite right from the list that we have received from the Council of State, which is attached, that the Government has put in place a lot of measures. But that's what's a bit of a point, that there's not enough with one action. There are plenty of approaches that overlap with each other to meet the kind of challenges. I noticed that the representative Bøhler said that this was a very real problem. The starting point of the Progress Party when we have a very real problem is that we have to attack it with all possible means to stop the problem. Here, the Committee and the Government say that the means of action promoted by the Advance Party will be of no use. Now I'm not going to predict the future, but I think – I'm sure – that there are people who come up with better thoughts some years in time. We would try this out. My starting point and that of the Progress Party is that if asylum is sought, that responsibility must also be taken. If asylum has been applied for in Norway and during the time when the application is being dealt with, criminal acts should be stepped up by a few. The best thing would have been an automatic expulsion immediately after committing a criminal act when applying for asylum. Then I think it becomes more technocratic when you defend yourself that the principle of equality applies. It is not that the Nordics who may have to seek asylum in Norway should be treated differently – there are only so few cases of this, I think. But I am absolutely sure that if a Norwegian had applied for asylum in another country, for example. Denmark, at least I would have accepted that there was an aggravating provision if this Northman who was seeking asylum committed a criminal act. That's the principle of equality for me. It is the aim of this, to prevent crime during the long term of treatment of an application. But I record that one is more concerned about the technical and is not so conscious of meeting these challenges, which are unlikely to disappear on the basis of all the measures government has taken. I don't believe in that. My starting point is: if you do not have real grounds for seeking asylum, you are also initially in a situation where you are an illegal immigrant in Norway. I will end by promoting the proposal of the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1237	The representative Per Sandberg has promoted the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1240	There are between 40 and 42 million people in the world who are on the run and who are seeking asylum and protection. They seek protection from violence, sexualized violence, from torture, from persecution, because they have wished for democratic rights that we in Norway take for granted. 40-42 million people! Most of them are cared for by their poor neighbouring countries in Asia and Africa. Some very few of them are able to come and knock on our door, and then they will be treated with the dignity that people are entitled to. That is what is the starting point of the SV when we deal with everything called asylum applications and all the challenges associated with asylum seekers. The legitimacy of the asylum institution shall be high. It is crucial for the SV and for this government that the institution of asylum has a high level of legitimacy, precisely because there are some 40 million people in need of protection. For them, the institution of asylum must have a high level of legitimacy both in Norway and in other countries. I would like to add, just in a small note, that it was very interesting to hear the Progress Party’s ‘roaring’ care for the asylum institution. Perhaps the Progress Party should think a little about the fact that the Progress Party has some responsibility for decreasing legitimacy around the asylum institution in the way they talk about both asylum seekers and the asylum institution. Then I go on: precisely because the institution of asylum needs to have a high degree of legitimacy, we must be very strict that those who come to the country on one's behalf to abuse the institution of asylum must be taken and punished, and that is to be punishable. It has already been established by the law. It also establishes the Supreme Court. Thus, we see no intention of introducing a new criminal order into the applicable law. We have the instrument that we need. We believe that this proposal is in the process of weakening the legitimacy of the asylum institution. It is quite right that very many of those involved in drug sales along, for example: Akerselva, has asylum seekers' background. But from there to conclude that all asylum seekers, or very many asylum seekers, are criminals and are in the country just to commit crime, are wrong. There is no SV to join. And then we also have to think – and this is no excuse, for having settled it already now – that part of those who are not covered by any system in the country, which is irreversible, who have no residence in the country, who have no work permit in the country, who have no place to go home, who cannot go to Nav to get help, who cannot go to the healthcare system to get help, in their despair, can finally be dragged into crime. I said this is no excuse, but for us as a society, it's important to understand why a lot of people commit crime. Preventing crime is and should be an important factor for us. For SV, it is important – again – to have established that the asylum institute must have a high level of legitimacy. That's what SV does to maintain. This type of proposal actually helps to weaken this legitimacy. That is exactly why we reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1255	The asylum institute is important. All the previous speakers have stressed this. It is important for people with a need for protection that trust in this system is not undermined. Therefore, if the aim is to commit crime in this country, it should be reacted to by the institution of asylum. This must be met with effective legal instruments. As the last speaker said, these actions should not be excused. There's no reason to apologize for this kind of crime. We have to have more thoughts in our heads at the same time. The Christian People’s Party does not consider the proposal of the Progress Party ‘to make the ‘undermining of the asylum institution’ an aggravating circumstance in criminal law’ to be a good procedure. Firstly, it must be absolutely fundamental in our criminal system that there should be no discrimination based on nationality or asylum status. Secondly, the proposers do not distinguish between those who deliberately exploit the asylum institution for planned crime and those who, for other reasons, commit criminal acts while their asylum case is being dealt with. Another aspect that is also not mentioned applies to those who are forced to commit crime. In fact, the theme of trafficking in human beings is also an issue that needs to be taken into account in matters like this. So to proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. Of course, the Christian People's Party is concerned that it is being cleaned up in the open-minded drug turnover that occurs in some places in the larger cities. An assessment of whether a reduction in the level of penalties for drugs and crime has recently had an indirect effect on the possibilities of sending asylum seekers committing such crimes would be useful. An assessment of today’s legal status regarding the planned exploitation of the asylum institution for crime as criminal aggravating factors to be codified or entered in the legal text may well be in place. In any case, we support such an assessment as is requested in the Progress Party and the Right's proposal, No. 1st@item: inlistbox We are going to support it, but we are going to vote against proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1270	The proposal by the representatives Jensen, Sandberg and Amundsen to make ‘undermining the institution of asylum’ an aggravating circumstance in criminal law represents something absolutely new in my view. The proposal would result in acts committed by a person from a circle of persons, in this case asylum seekers, who may have implications for the image of those persons in society, being penalised more severely than similar acts by persons who do not belong to the same circle of persons. If we were to go into this, it could be challenging for many other types of people. The starting point for all criminal measures is that equal acts are to be punished equally, but that, in the circumstances, there may be an opportunity to focus on aggravating or mitigating circumstances. If we were to impose stricter penalties for offences committed by asylum seekers than for offences committed by other citizens, we would impose an additional penalty on asylum seekers solely because of their asylum seekers’ status – without being linked to specific and individual circumstances of the asylum seekers concerned. I believe that is the wrong way to go, and I am therefore pleased that the Right and Christian People's Party also points to the fundamental concerns of this proposal. At my discretion, the representative Sandberg is not prejudiced, that this should be almost a technical adjustment. Having said that, I agree entirely with the proposers that it is important to protect the institution of asylum. I note that the rapporteurs have noted the high focus of the government on shipments, and that the Committee has taken note of the government's measures to limit the number of asylum seekers without any need for protection and to transport those who are refused asylum applications. I may be a little disrespectful, but sometimes it's actually more important that we get an out-of-carryer than getting 60 or 90 days in jail. Professional exploitation of the institution of asylum may be penalised by more stringent penalties under the law in force, because the general rules on the reinforcement of criminal sanctions for organised and professional crime could then apply. This is already reflected in the penal code of 1902 and in the case law, and is made clear in the Penal Code of 2005. However, the general rules on professional and organised crime are not linked to citizenship or group membership – that is not the aspect to be addressed with stricter penalties. It is the professional aspect that is to be met with stricter penalties. The Party of Progress and the Right proposes to investigate whether the exploitation of the asylum institution should be legalised as a criminal case. In my view, the status of professional exploitation of criminal measures should be irrelevant, and there is also a risk that such a provision could distort the understanding of what is to be regarded as organised crime. Why should professional exploitation of the asylum institution be penalised more severely than professional use of tourist visas or professional exploitation of Norwegian citizenship – or professional exploitation of neighbourhoods, for that matter? If the purpose of such a criminal tightening is only to ensure that the person is deprived of liberty pending his return, the Foreign Affairs Act already provides for the authorisation of imprisonment if there is a risk of escape. I believe it is in principle wrong to take care of foreign-law considerations by eroding the principle of equality of criminal law. Penalties and criminal proceedings must be the same for all. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee so clearly expresses the fact that there is no possibility of different penalties based on nationality or asylum status compared to Norwegian citizens. The representatives of the Progressive Party and the Right have also asked the government to explain whether the downward adjustment of the level of penalties for some drug offences poses challenges related to sending asylum seekers committing this type of crime more quickly. The objective conditions of the law for expulsion are not linked to the level of penalties, but to the criminal penalties for criminal offences. In the proposal on the implementation of the Return Directive in Norwegian law, it is proposed, inter alia, that it should: must be able to pay attention to whether the foreigner has been penalised when assessing whether there is a risk of avoidance which may give rise to detention under the Foreign Affairs Act. I also point out that the department is working on the follow-up of a letter of consultation on extended permits for the detention of foreigners under the Foreign Affairs Act, and I will come back to Stortinget as soon as a final proposal is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1291	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1295	I would like to challenge the Council of State. When you talk about asylum, asylum and asylum seekers in all other contexts, you talk about the individual – the individual’s rights, the individual’s rights. But now I notice that not only the Council of State, but others also, talk about not having criminal sanctions, because you're an individual in a circuit. Then I ask myself, what has happened so that we cannot introduce that kind of law because you belong to a circuit, belong to an ethnic group, belong to one of the many nationalities who collectively seek asylum? Do you have to change all the other laws now, including the Foreign Affairs Act, in relation to the fact that you belong to a circuit when applying for asylum?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1300	I feel that both foreign and criminal law are individually oriented. The rights to be measured, when assessed, against the need for protection and asylum, are individual rights and individual obligations. The same applies to punishment. To a very large extent, fortunately, it is individually directed, because we know that we need to achieve an individual preventive effect, or insofar as a general preventive effect, but in particular the individual preventive, is absolutely essential to measure it on the basis of the individual relationship. Now, when you say that ethnic background – as I understand the question – is going to form the basis for some kind of reaction, I'm actually getting even more frightened. That would be dangerous both in the field of international law and, in particular, in the field of criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1307	I record that the Council of State deliberately wants to misunderstand. I challenge the Council of State: Now that you've decided – according to what the Council of State says in its statement – that you can't have penalties in line with what the Progress Party is proposing here, because you belong to a circuit, it's going to be something completely new. Then my question is, is it going to be continuous now that you're not an individual, but you belong to a circuit, and that's why we have to draw up punishments, criminal laws and penalties based on the fact that you belong to a particular circuit? That's what the state council said. It's quite new that you're now going to start imposing penalties on the grounds that you're a single individual who belongs to a circuit. That's what the Council of State said if I didn't get it wrong. Then it is not the Progress Party that proposes anything. But I challenge the Council of State: should this also apply in other areas of criminal sanctions, new criminal law, to assess which circuit you come from in order to get the right level of punishment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1314	I guess I'm not asking that we punish on a personal basis, and what kind of background you have. It's the Progress Party that's asking for it. So it's the Progress Party that has to answer if this is going to be a new practice that is going to spread in other circumstances. I don't understand how the representative Sandberg can ask me that question. I have always said, both in my post and to the extent that in my work for a long time, that we achieve the most by punishing that is individually directed. Luckily, the court judges and judges meet the defendant face to face, and measure out a punishment from the individual situation within a given framework. After all, it is the Progress Party that proposes to focus on the kind of circuit from which you come and which in this way has to answer whether it will have consequences in other areas. In my opinion, I am more anchored in a liberal legal tradition than the Progress Party is now pretending to do, by thinking that it is the individual to be seen, that is the individual to be called upon, and that is the individual to be given rights to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1321	First I want to say that I think it's good that it's often the Supreme Court and not the ones of us who are standing here, who are going to do the technical things. Then it could be quite leaky, I think. But in any case, in 2008, the municipality of Oslo was in the situation that they did not have any advice other than renting in weights along Akerselva. Of course, it had a connection with the policy we were in, which was cancelled just before the 2009 elections. Now we are told that the situation is the same again, that there is an increasing incidence of drug sales along Akerselva. Is the Council of State concerned about this development, and what does he intend to do to ensure that we do not get the same situation as we had in 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1328	This situation has troubled us over time. There has been a reason why it has been decided to deploy manpower resources against this – there is no doubt that the Oslo police have done so – and also to establish police posts. In addition to getting a lot of criminal cases — we have seen hundreds of attacks related to these environments — we also need to be able to think about other types of measures that help us to prevent more from doing so. That's why I've been busy with two things. The first is that the foreign sector and the justice sector need to communicate better and have faster procedures, so that they are picked out and treated more quickly — and often reject their asylum applications because they are very largely groundless, and then they have to return. You have to get up the number of shipments of just these. I'm happy and very proud that the Foreign Affairs Unit of the police is delivering as good results as you do this year, because I think there's a lot of general and individual prevention in that people actually see that the consequence of that kind of activity is that you're being sent out of the country. We're reaching the targets this year, and we might get higher too.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1335	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1340	During this great period, the Progress Party is going to show a great deal of commitment in the field of justice policy – I think those in this room have noticed so far – and that is because the Progress Party will be the foremost exponent in creating a safe Norway. There we're going to be creative, we're going to be offensive, in the proposals that we're going to promote here in this room in that way. Unfortunately, I have to say that we do not see the same commitment from the government parties. The justice policy of the government parties is marked by rigidity and a lack of courage to think again and take any chances. I say that because we are constantly seeing a number of representatives from the red-green parties, including the first Vice-Chairman of the Committee, Jan Bøhler, who is still out in the press and is expressing a policy that can be seen to be close to that of the Progress Party. However, when the Progress Party makes proposals here in this Chamber – we would suggest that it should be a much wider majority for – yes, the same representatives do not support those proposals. If we are to look at what has been said in this Chamber so far today, then the representative of Bohemia has said that there is a major problem with the sale of drugs from asylum seekers here in Oslo along Akerselva. The question is, what do Bohemia and his controversies do in such situations? The situation is getting worse. The Progress Party has not proposed that any particular group should be penalised, that is in relation to an act, in relation to abuse of the confidence gained by being able to come to Norway and apply for asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1351	I thank the representative of Kielland Asmyhr for his attention. It's important to keep up with what's said. I have described the situation, as I know very well, as serious. The Council of State has described police operations in the area as being strong. It is without a doubt – several hundred people are arrested. There's still going to be an update of those numbers from the police in Oslo. However, it is a system problem that is linked to being treated for crime and being an asylum seeker. Then we need changes to the Foreign Affairs Act in order to be more able to use detention – could make it serious for the foreigner's cause in relation to the Foreigner's law to commit crime. Those proposals have been in consultation with the deadline of 6 October and will soon be promoted by the Grand Duchy. That's the lead I think is the right principle, which the Council of State was also in. We must not erode the idea of equality in the law when we are going to achieve something that we all agree on, in terms of getting instruments that work better in this area. You also have to try to work together in Stortinget, I think, when you describe a problem that is right to address, and not necessarily go into what people are after, in a wrong way in terms of the instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1362	There's no problem for me to admit that here there's a lot of balance in relation to the similarity idea. That's why the lines I had with the Council of States, also very interesting, because either I misunderstand the Council of States or then the Council of States misunderstands me, or maybe we both want to misunderstand each other. Who knows? But my point is, if it's the case that the proposals of the Progress Party here are interpreted as meaning that we want a penalty tightening for a circuit, for a group, then there's someone who's read this proposal that a certain man reads a certain book. Then there is a desire to go away from the content and intentions of the proposal. If it's the case that you can't have tightening criminal provisions for individuals belonging to a circuit or group, then we're out of business. We have tougher criminal regulations today, not because you belong to a circuit, but because you're in a circuit. Public officials in different, very important positions take advantage of the situation to commit criminal offences. That's sharp. Let's do a couple more examples of that. That is why I have called upon the Council of State to do the same: it cannot be that we cannot make proposals in connection with the criminal law that is tightening up in relation to the crime that is being committed. It can't be that we can't do that because you belong to a circle. It'll be completely impossible. Then I also think it's strange what the representative from SV, Chaudhry, says, that the proposal to punish the abuse of the asylum institution is worse than that someone abuses the asylum institution by committing crime. Yes, if you have that starting point, I understand that you're voting on this proposal. I hope and believe that the rest of the committee does not agree with that opinion. It is also a little strange, even in the case of the representative Chaudhry – and others have also said it indirectly – that there can be a tightening of criminal sanctions today, but it must be planned. Then it has to be professional. That's all right. But when it's not planned, it's not professional, we can't have a penalty. In order to implement the principle of equality, the proposals of the Progress Party are the right one.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1373	It's possible I have a bit of a hard time for it, but I don't think there's so much disagreement here, really. There are three options here: one is that you want to codify the practices of the Supreme Court now. That is what the Progress Party is proposing, as far as I understand. The second is that one does not want to codify the practices of the Supreme Court. It's the variant of the government parties. And then it's whether to consider whether to codify the practices of the Supreme Court by incorporating it into the criminal law. That is what the Right has proposed, with the subsidiary support of the Progress Party and with the support of the Christian People's Party. So I feel in a way that the debate that is now being reconstructed between the Council of State and the Advancement Party here now is quite interesting, because the proposal for the Right is actually to build on what the Supreme Court has suggested, and see if you will possibly use the same model as you did in the last reading of the Penal Code – that you codify parts of the practice that have evolved over time. Otherwise, I think it might be a little useful that we define what is the real crime scene here, because now it sounds like it's the asylum seekers who are responsible for about all the crime that happens in this country, and that's not really it. When we talk about the major crime challenges, there are quite different groups of both Nordics and others with a foreign background – who are not asylum seekers but mobile offenders in the EEA and Schengen areas – that are the big challenge. So I think we're going to try to separate a little bit, so that not everything is freshened together in a big pot. Then I would like to give some support to the representative of Kielland Asmyhr as regards the Labour Party's judicial policy, because it is a challenge – also for the Right – to follow up on what the Labour Party really believes. When the first Vice-Chairman of the Judicial Committee takes a look and often has a media play, that's okay. It's just that there's a different policy going on than the one that's voted on in here, so you can wonder what's really the Justice Policy of the Workers' Party. I choose to deal with the Council of States, because it usually tends to be the way he wants it to be, and it might be natural. But it is a challenge for the opposition and others to take on what is the real policy, because it does not always appear that the first Vice-Chairman of the Judicial Committee and the Council of State are well coordinated enough. It's a challenge when we're actually going to debate issues, see what's government policy, and what's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1387	I thought I would try to sit still, but I choose to take the word anyway because this is an important matter for us. There's just two things I want to say. I very much agree with the representative Oktay Dahl when he now says that there is a lot of semantics here as regards the difference in what the parties actually mean. In the judgment in question, the Supreme Court has also held that the use of recourse to the asylum process as part of criminal activity can be used as a criminal act. All the government parties, and also the representative of Bohemia, have contributed well to the fact that we have received additional pressure on this. We've been together there, so I think it's a little unfair that you're now trying to reconstruct that there's been some battle in the Workers' Party's fraction attached to this. The action in Oslo has just had elements of more staffing, it has been given, several attacks, we have seen that – the hundreds of them – the expansion of police posts, faster processing and more deployment. I believe that the last thing, getting people transported out, has a significantly more general preventive effect than 30 or 60 more days in prison. That's what I think we're going to worry about. This investment in that spectrum has produced results over the last few years, and that is precisely this effort the representative of Bohemia has been a figure person for. You've heard the recordings that have come, and you've made good politics out of it. So in this area, I actually think you've moved in. I feel the need to say that, because we have also found quite good tools. So now it remains to be extended access to detention, and that also applies to this group, so that first of all you have to ensure that you have an effective transport. I'm a little surprised when there's so much focus on how long the punishment will be here in Norway from the Progress Party. I thought maybe one was actually more concerned with getting faster process and forced deployment as soon as possible, that it would contribute to crime prevention here in the country and also have an influence on how many come here to commit criminal acts, among others. under the cover of being an asylum seeker.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1394	I think the Council of State is again deliberately misunderstood if he tries to present it as if the Progress Party has a focus on punishment and punishment alone. For it is a party that has for a long time criticised a very naive and clever asylum policy, which, not least, this government has practised, and a lack of initiative to get back in place – there has been a improvement in recent years – that is precisely the Progress Party. This is part of the big picture, and it is actually about what is in the proposal of the Progress Party, namely respect for the institution of asylum as such. And then it's not as simple as the representative Chaudhry is trying to do this to, when he says that the asylum institution should have a high degree of legitimacy. The problem is that there is nothing we decide in Stortinget, that the institution of asylum should have a high degree of legitimacy. There is a perception that exists out there, and for several years, with a lack of governance in the field of asylum that this government has stood for, it is a falling respect for the institution of asylum. It's a fact. When people come to Norway, they abuse the right to asylum in this country, and even commit criminal offences, they obviously help to undermine the institution of asylum. It shouldn't surprise anyone. So it's the result of a misguided policy. Some adjustments have been made in recent years, but the challenge is still enormous. We are once again experiencing, as is also said in this debate, the emergence of drug crime along Akerselva, which is largely committed by criminal asylum seekers. It is not the same as saying that all asylum seekers are criminals. No, of course not, but asylum seekers are extremely overrepresented in some areas of crime. It is again a fact, which in turn contributes to the fact that respect for the institution of asylum as such at full speed is on its way down. So that is the position of the Norwegian people. That is why I say that if the policies of the Progress Party were based, it would have been clear and clear that those who do not have a right to protection should be returned to their respective countries of origin, and that those who abuse the institution of asylum, who commit criminal acts while in Norway, should be punished and sent back and should not have the opportunity to go out on the street and commit criminal acts again, yes, then the same institution of asylum had a higher status, because then it would have been known that only people who were actually persecuted, who came to Norway and sought a place of refuge. But I note that over five years of red-green mismanagement in this area, we unfortunately have low respect for the asylum institution of the Norwegian population.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1401	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 629]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1417	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1426	The matter concerns, as I said, a proposal for a representative to combat organised crime, something that this committee has been very concerned about and has had on the agenda for a long time, for example. on the journeys undertaken by the Committee both domestically and abroad. The majority note in the vote that a big message on organised crime is to be provided and that several of the proposals in the vote have been implemented, are under development or have been evaluated. The minority, i.e. the Progress Party and the Right, look forward with great pleasure to the big message to be presented on organised crime, expecting a wide-ranging debate on the various measures. The consensus that the fight against organised crime is important is reflected in the vote in which the Document 8 proposal is not rejected, but is proposed to be annexed to the Protocol. As I said, there is an overall committee that sees the importance of combating organised crime, so on later occasions we can discuss the means and what to do to combat crime. The Progress Party agrees that organised crime is not uniform. As it says in the setting, it is multi-species, complex and cross-border. This makes the fight against this type of crime demanding. Anything else that makes it demanding is that organized crime evolves quickly. To put it that way: the innovation is great in the organized criminal environments. This makes it difficult to be in advance, which you have seen repeatedly when so-called new crime appears in Norway. It is therefore very important that one exchange of information with other countries. The information provided to the Norwegian police in this exchange must be processed and disseminated as quickly as possible. It is important that all stages of the police action receive new information on developments in organised crime. The proposals put forward in the vote are an important instrument in the fight against this type of crime. The fact that some of the proposals according to the government parties have been evaluated, as it says in the vote, given what I mentioned earlier about innovation in the organised criminal environments, should not be a reason why they are not current and can be scrapped. In addition to these proposals and the measures proposed, if any, in the RAP, it is another instrument which is at least equally important, if not more important, namely that one has policemen to prevent, investigate and arrest criminals, whether organised or otherwise. In other words, in addition to training more policemen, there is also a need to set up posts and then hire police officers. In that case, increased appropriations are needed; there is a need for an increase in addition to what is eaten up by wage and price increases. New posts will, of course, include: the positions in which newly-trained policemen can apply and not least be employed. Finally, I should like to draw your attention to proposal No. 6 in the setting. That is an important proposal. Because at least part of organised crime is very important to interact with local authorities about the tools that can be able to address and combat organised crime. In this context, it will also be important to inform and inform municipalities about developments in organised crime, especially in the so-called 1 pst environment. It is important that municipalities have the opportunity to know what is happening, and to take the steps they can with the law in hand, in order to prevent new environments from establishing themselves. The undersigned looks forward to the consideration of the planned roll-out message and will, at the end of the day, promote the proposals on which the Right and the Advance Party stand together in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1449	The representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen has made the suggestions he referred to, which are included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1452	It is useful that we get a round here in Stortinget in advance of the promotion of the important news of organized crime, because this is very much about the core of the crime scene in Norway. If we're going to say something about status, it's probably that we've achieved important things on some points, where we also see that there's a lot of work to do in the future. In order to take a first point, repeat crime: we have seen that strong pressure has been put on established gangs, such as the well-known A and B gangs in the Oslo and Eastern regions. There's been a strong pressure on MC crime. We've discussed it a lot here in Stortinget. A strong pressure has been put on the mobile profit criminals, where the gangs who have operated around the country have been followed much more closely and better by the police, and where the number of cases of mobile profit crime this year has fallen sharply in most police districts as a result of a reinforced effort. We have seen that rolling up the heavy research environments in Norway has been successful in extending the NOKAS case. But there have now been new environments that we have seen that have made estimates of a number of goldsmiths' stores. This shows that we still have major challenges. We see the cases of trafficking in human beings in Norway and the number of cases that have been convicted, where there are problems in arranging cases, and where there are problems in rolling up these networks. We also see that organized crime takes new forms. The Committee included: on visits to Sweden and discussed this with the Swedish police. They pointed out that organized crime today doesn't necessarily take the form of very solid, hierarchical patterns in gangs, as we traditionally know it from MC gangs, A gangs and B gangs, but that there are also flexible constellations of people in which you acquire skills depending on the type of crime you go into. If you, for example, new forms of crime in the field of economic crime, data crime, etc. may be introduced by established persons in organised crime to find competent persons they use to move into new areas, such as: skimming. So we still have a big job to do, even though we've been focusing heavily on organized crime in Norway for a long time. Some of the lessons learned include: in the National Audit Office’s report, is about better coordination between police districts: who should start, how should we cooperate? There's the arrangement called ROK, which has $18 million. the availability of cooperation projects, improved performance and more coordinated action. We have long discussed the measurement criteria for the police in relation to this type of effort. This requires cooperation across the police districts. Who should be awarded points within the traditional measurement criteria can be problematic. It is underlined that cooperation is to pay off, to achieve cross-cutting results. It will also be reflected now when the Police Directorate is working on new measurement criteria – which will certainly be dealt with properly in the paper on organised crime. An important issue addressed by the proposers concerns the law and practices in relation to organised crime. It's obvious that these environments can be so harsh that it's hard to witness, and more and more people are being deterred from witnessing. You cannot be known to the counterparty when you have given information about them, tips, etc. There may be very serious threats to those who do so — both here in Norway and in any home country, where appropriate. When it comes to looking at ways to deal with the new crime, I think it is important – as also mentioned in the letter from the Council of State on the Methodological Control Committee – to be aware that we need better rules to protect informants and witnesses, and look at the legislation in this regard. When Kripos went through 1,400 cases of organized crime that had been solved, they pointed out that in 60 p.m. of which data storage was essential for the purpose of proving the case. It is also crucial for Stortinget to discuss what a new data storage law should look like in the light of this, etc. So we can take a lot of lessons from the fight against organized crime, and we will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1467	The organised crime in Norway is increasing, and the violence perpetrated by organised criminal environments is increasing. We see increased use of threats and conscious games of fear of creating work peace for the organized criminal environments. The police tell us that the financial and money flows in these environments are increasing, and last but not least: the organized criminal activity is being better organised, and it is becoming more boundless – all in all a development that gives cause for concern. This is a development that we've known for a long time. The right has addressed this with increasing efforts to combat organised crime many times. And in repeated debates here in the main hall and in public space, we have heard from the government parties that the answers are largely about meeting this over two axes: above the budget – with reference to previous year’s budgets – and in existing projects under police control. From the Right, this is not enough to meet the challenges of increasing organised crime. We have called for a broader approach, we have said that we cannot afford to get away from this development, and we have pointed out that the police – even if they are doing a great job – are not alone in meeting this. We have to meet it in a much larger community. The right-hand side also thinks that we can't have the status quo as a strategy, we have to think differently. That is why this right-wing document promotes the proposal for 8. Organized crime is an increasing social problem precisely because, as I started with, crime itself is of course a major problem. But in addition, we see that in parts of these criminal environments – at least we see the hint – shadow societies on the side of democracy live by their own rules that they override the rules of democratic society. We hear from the police that organized crime is growing into the legitimate business life of Norway. We see an increasing black economy linked to organized crime. And the last thing we can read about, most recently last week, is that these kids in the South, down to 15 years old, have been pressured into their crime as a result of drug debts to Hell Angels. We need to tackle this in a much broader way than what has been done up to now. It is also precisely what the Riksrevision points out in its framework-salted criticism of the fight against organised crime. The right's proposal is based on three fundamental pillars in the fight against organised crime. Firstly, we need a broad – much wider – social effort against organised crime than today. Secondly, we need to have a strategy that is more and more marked by following the flow of money and attacking the driving forces behind organized crime. The third and last factor on which we base our proposal is a broad effort to prevent organised crime. We've heard about the coming big shot. We meet it with joy and expectation. We're going to focus on cross-political cooperation to meet this challenge, but the prerequisites are that that cooperation rests on the three mentioned pillars. That is why, of course, we are addressing the further debate, but not least the forthcoming big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1480	Crime is a serious social problem. It is a challenge and a threat to our social order. It is a problem for democracy – as the previous speaker was inward, absolutely correct. Crime is a problem for well-being and for people's health, not least. Having a fear of being exposed to crime, having a sense of insecurity and living with real insecurity is a direct threat to people's health. If crime is organized, these things are even more enhanced and even more undesirable in our society. Past speakers have been very thorough on important aspects of crime that need to be combated and that are being combated in our society today. Trafficking in human beings is another important element that must be combated. It's people who are being subjected to gross crime. People are forced into begging. We know that people are driven to Norway, among other things, and are forced to beg against their will to make money on them. Serb crime is another piece that threatens society as a whole and must be combated. My colleague, Jan Bøhler, from the Workers' Party, was in it and put forward a good deal of measures that have been taken, and mentioned the efforts that the police have not least gradually taken against crime. And then the government has promised a complete message about how we're going to fight organized crime. This means that the government – not least the government – is committed to fighting crime. Yeah, it's not just the opposition that's concerned about this, it's us, and the government is. It's a common goal, we have a common society. It must achieve common objectives and joint efforts. I react a little to a comment that says in the case, where the opposition parties write the following: ‘These members believe that the government has had a too passive approach to these serious developments in society.’ Sometimes it's a bit embarrassing that government parties will have to ram everything that's been done in the last five to six years we've been in government. But when the opposition promotes this kind of comment, we have to say that in just the last five to six years, we have increased the justice budget by 6.6 billion. kr, nominal. There's a lot of money, and there's an increase in excess of the price rise, that a representative from the opposition here wanted. Agreements have been concluded, and it is being kept away, with foreign powers in terms of the transport of prisoners to their respective countries. The police are strengthened by civil status, the court is strengthened, criminal justice is strengthened, and we have also strengthened the law on violence, in the case of gross violence, in the case of killings, in the case of violence in close relations, etc. So there's a lot of things that are done. But that doesn't mean we're satisfied – absolutely not. We know that there are challenges. That is exactly why we say that we want to send a message. Superior lines are to be drawn, and the opposition and the whole of the Storing are to be drawn to find the right solutions to the challenges facing our society and many other modern societies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1496	Organised crime exists in most areas of society, and combating such crime is part of all the good police work done around the country every single day. At the same time, organised crime stands out because it is cross-border and more difficult to stop. Organised crime can only be limited by extensive, often international, cooperation and high police priority. That's why I'm glad that there's a good job in limiting organized crime, and for the government to present a big message on the topic. This should be the overall strategy the proposers are asking for. There is little doubt that this type of crime is designed to exploit weak aspects of society, and that it is engulfing ever-new areas that can bring great profits to criminals. Limiting organised crime places great demands on cooperation not only between different agencies but also between actors in the public and private sectors. Business needs to be aware of this and have a zero tolerance to cooperate with criminal environments. The large increases made by the police in their budgets call for the money to be spent in a way that gives the most return to society in terms of increased security. This work shall be based on the operational analysis presented by the Directorate of Police in April, a crime study on a fact-based and knowledge-driven criminal policy and continued efforts on competences, supervision and control, equipment, ICT and police methods. The representative, Mr Bøhler, was unable to avoid entering the Data Storage Directive. I am not going to take that debate now, just pointing out that the police already have major and far-reaching instruments in terms of access to electronic communications. I think one can find many solutions to this issue among those most affected. The operation without frontiers, highlighted by the proposers, is tailor-made for its impact area, with measures adapted to the crime to be tackled. Both cooperation and the methodological book are instruments that were introduced in a new way when Westfold experienced an increasing crime committed by Eastern Europeans. I have met the chief of police in Rogaland myself and received a briefing on their work against organized crime, among others. in the motorcycle environment, the MC environment. The work of the police must have a solid local anchoring, and they must have room for action to resolve matters based on their local knowledge. Organised crime often has a major feature of foreign criminals. Therefore, it is important that the government remains steadfast in its practice of transporting non-residents without a residence permit and quickly exposes criminals who have completed the zone or who can zone in the area of repatriation. I would also like to refer to a proposal to amend the Foreign Affairs Act which extends access to the detention of foreigners to be sent out when they have committed serious crime. On Thursday, the Grand Duchy shall examine a proposal to limit the right to uphold the right to uphold the law of popular protection when the only connection with the Kingdom is the criminal act. This will allow fewer foreign organised criminals to establish themselves, stay and thus commit crime in Norway. When the criminals succeed in taking security away from people, they have taken away people the most important thing in life. I am therefore pleased that there is a broad consensus in this Chamber that a person should have a great deal to do with organized crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1515	The threat from organised criminal environment has increased in recent years, especially due to increased intrusion of foreign criminal actors. At the same time, the authorities' efforts have not been sufficiently targeted and coordinated, as pointed out by the National Audit Office. The last time in the evening post today, there is a little talk about how the prostitution environment in Oslo's streets is spreading, where more and more women from the Roma are prostituted. One is concerned about whether minors are being exploited. A clear trend in the prostitution environment shows that more and more of those who are prostitutes are foreign. More and more of the people who have had the hope of coming to Norway have been dragged here by cynical backers who exploit girls and women. They had a goal of coming to Norway, but still had to prostitute themselves instead. The same is true of beggaring. This is why the efforts to stop the criminal backers before prostitution and trafficking in human beings are incredibly important, and it also needs to be intensified. Efforts against organised profit crime must also be intensified. The twenty-iraida we've experienced in the last few years is devastating to people's security. The police here point to a clear link between the organised begging and the organised winning crime. We have to give the police a better chance of breaking that particular link. That is why we also need to give the police better opportunities to intervene against begging. In the past, a representative has been involved in the crime in South Africa, where an increasing number of younger criminals are linked to the organised environment. It is a challenge in this matter, where one sees that child protection is without some tools. But when the connection is as extensive as it is against organized criminals, it is an extra challenge for child protection to manage to break into the environment. Seeing that young people are recruited into such a tough environment is a major challenge that I know that both the Council of State and other government councils have warned that they will address them. I just want to remind you that there is an extremely important job to tackle. The proposal from the Right contains good measures for a more holistic and coordinated fight against and prevention of organised crime. The Christian People's Party reports that the government has reported a big deal about organized crime. That's good. But unfortunately, I agree with the proposers and have to say that the government's efforts in the field are not good enough. We need a lift. The Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the proposals contained in Document 8, with the exception of proposal No. 4, on own departments for foreign nationals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1530	Before commenting on the proposals, I would like to stress my satisfaction that representatives from the Right – and also others in the debate – in this clear way are actively contributing to raising the focus and also proposing measures against organised crime. The time has come. The available trend and threat assessments show that the organised crime is growing. Therefore, efforts need to be stepped up both here and in other countries. I would also like to agree with Mr Werp's representative who was up in the pulpit and said about the scope of the measures. That's a prerequisite for success. We can't just pick out one sector in society to attack organized crime. We know that organized crime is incarcerated and degenerate in many ways. There is a broad argument in the measures. But we also know that we should be able to prevent and also prevent those who are being taken from actually going out again – whether it is young people from South Africa or adults from other countries – we are totally dependent on bringing with us the chain of sanctions in this. Now we have a good opportunity to promise this, and the Stortinget will be invited to debate when the announcement about organised crime is to be addressed. For the government, this – the big message – is the opportunity to have an overall ‘wide view’ of the effort. In proposal No 2 proposes the establishment of a permanent working party in the Ministry of Justice and Police to facilitate better judicial cooperation with the EU. To this I would say that we have different departments in the department that work closely with the EU. And we're totally dependent on that, whether it's criminal, court or police cooperation. But I think it is important to say that we have also established an international secretariat in the Ministry of Justice that coordinates much of this effort. I want to go so far as to say that the establishment of this secretariat contributed a lot to our focus on cooperation with the EU, and that we have also made concrete agreements, including: what we have in relation to Europol, Eurojust and Prüm, and not least the work currently being done to support the framework decision on settlement transfer. Then the representatives propose in proposal No. 3 to review the law to assess whether this is good enough to meet the challenges posed by organised crime. To that I would say that after the hearing in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, I got a certain impression that people were calming down that the criminal provisions themselves were sufficient to capture the organized crime. But then you have a review, for example. with regard to methodological use, which is crucial. There are many types of methods that are being debated after the decision of the Methodology Committee, but I would like to point out in particular the debate in which the Stortinget will be invited to participate, on one of the important methods, namely the possibility for the police to store traffic data. Those who work with the Operation Project, those who work with organized child abuse, and those who work with financial crime, have said – unisontly – that if we are to be effective in combating this type of serious organised crime, we must have access to traffic data. That's why I think it's perhaps one of the most important regulatory challenges facing Stortinget. I have told you what I think about the Data Storage Directive. I believe that this is one of the most important tools we have, and I still think it is strange that, among other things. The Progress Party, which has previously announced that they will be among the most active in combating criminal acts, until they have chosen to distance themselves from one of the main instruments of the police. As regards proposal No: 4, on the creation of own prison departments, I have said that we have that in mind in the ministry. I will return to Stortinget at the appropriate time regarding this. As regards proposal No: 5, on a strategy to prevent the recruitment of young people into criminal settings and gangs, the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss this in the context of concrete propositions coming next year, in addition to the debate that will be associated with the impact on children and youth. But I also point out that there is a considerable amount of work going on here, and I would particularly like to highlight the reproduction in Oslo, where good experience has been gained on how to prevent youth falling out. I also refer to the Good Forces Action Plan, which, on the part of the department and government, points to several strategies. So here we have many opportunities to discuss the suggestions put on the table, and in that way I won't close the door to any of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1549	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1553	The Council of State was in its intervention on some of the measures proposed, but he did not mention anything related to economics and resources. So my questions to the Council of State are really very simple: does the Council of State see a connection between increasing and better organised crime and resources? Does the Council of State see the need to increase police resources so that they have the opportunity to carry out their mission, in particular against organised crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1558	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1563	I would like to thank the Council of States for their commitment and, in my view, for their good work. It shows genuine commitment. So, of course, it remains to be seen what comes in the big message. My question in this line is perhaps one of the most fundamental, namely prevention, prevention of a very widespread – and that is my claim – naivety in Norwegian society about what organized crime is about, where perhaps the violence, threats and fear that is driving this environment ahead will not come to light. My question is: What role do the Councils of State see for the municipalities in the basic and preventive work here – preventing naivety, preventing recruitment into the environment, in the awareness of the rule of law as a prerequisite for individual freedom in society and that organised crime is a threat to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1570	Now I listened to Mr. Werp's main post, where he pointed out that this is more than just money. I just have to say it, sail if my answer in the previous line was very clear. We also need more money, and that's why the government grants more money. When I agree with the representative Werp in the reasoning that we have to look at how we spend the money, it is precisely against the motivation and the angle that it is added to the line. We won't be able to be effective enough to fight organized crime if we don't use, among other things. the efforts of the municipalities. This is not least about how to prevent very young people from being recruited. It may not be a primary task for criminal services and prisons, but I would also like to point out in particular the tools available at local level to prevent groups from becoming involved in the economy. As the representative pointed out, it is with the grant of donations, building licences, etc. good examples of how we can stop unwanted groups and prevent them from establishing themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1577	I have a challenge for the Council of State when it comes to the increasing problem before the prostitution environment, especially in Oslo. The PRO centre has come up with new numbers, which are not exactly positive compared to how many prostitutes there are in the country. One also shows that after 2008, there has been a dip in 2009, and several places are increasing in 2010 in the number of prostitutes. What also bothers me is that there are more and more of the prostitutes who are of foreign origin, and there are clear links that they are brought to Norway by cynical backers and organized criminals to run prostitution. One knows that the Sex Purchases Act is also an important tool, especially when it comes to attitudes, but one sees that the decline has not been as big as a desire. I have previously challenged the Minister for Social Action, but I would like to ask the Minister an open question – whether he has any suggestions and plans on how to enter, especially to stop the human trafficking that one sees itself now?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1582	I believe that several places in the country have shown that it is possible to go into quite complicated human trafficking issues, and we see a little variety of experience from police districts to police districts. This is one of the grips we have to look at in the big message: how can we coordinate this work better? There was considerable attention when the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee had its hearing, and I believe that both the State Attorney and the police director responded well in what can be done to get all the police districts involved. I can't go into everything here, but I also want to say, when it comes to the prostitute, it's never been like that -- it's not like that yet, and I hope it's not going to be like that -- that it's she, or in some cases he, who gets criminalized in many ways. She needs all kinds of social assistance, social assistance, to get out of it, and that's where we have tools, for example. The PRO Centre. And when the representative Ropstad challenges me, I'm going to challenge Ropstad back – and the Christian People's Party, who is in charge of the city – that you don't cut in this kind of social action that is just going to help the girls who are in a bottomless hopeless situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1595	I am going to make a concrete proposal, which I would like the Minister to respond to: Trafficking is human trafficking across borders, and in some way you have to get into Norway – whether it's by plane, whether it's by car, whether it's by ferry, or what it might be. Then we see that in many other countries, airlines have joined forces with the justice sector to set up a telephone number that one can call 24 hours a day if one suspects that there is trafficking, or human trafficking. For example, it's obvious in an airplane if there's a person sitting with three little girls in their ten-twelf-year-old age and these girls are not allowed to go to the bathroom without this person being present: then there are some bells calling a place with people working with them every day. In that case, it should also be possible for Norway, in cooperation with the airlines, to set up such a telephone number as can be called. I have been informed that the airlines are interested. Is this an interesting thought?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1600	I have registered that the representative Michaelsen has previously flagged this proposal as well. I believe that this is just the kind of proposal we need not just in the big news, but the government has announced that we are going to renew the plan we have against trafficking in human beings. I think it is a concrete and proper proposal, and I do not want to close the door for it. I would also like to invite the representative to further dialogue on this, what are the possibilities in this, because what we are facing in the field of trafficking in human beings – but also in some other types of crime, we see what we need – and what the police are struggling with is that we are not getting sufficient information and reports on what is actually happening. The law houses are ready. To get people to explain themselves about things, and especially those who are victims, it's hard. We can bring aid lawyers and support schemes and so on, but we need every possible measure to get reports in, including to put in place relief measures – not just punishment. So I don't want to close the door for that, and I think we need to evaluate it against the human trafficking plan that will be presented next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1605	With regard to the representative Werp raised in relation to cooperation with local authorities, it is a fact that a good number of municipalities feel that they are not being taken seriously. They experience some sort of state arrogance from different departments that don't feel that the municipalities really have so much to do with combating organized crime, even if they do. With regard to the new action plan, what can the Council of State indicate that there is a concrete change to be made in order to achieve better cooperation with the municipalities, so that they do not feel the arrogance they have felt for some years now with regard to how central authorities treat them in relation to the fight against organised crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1612	First of all, I want to say that if there's something I don't want to be, it's arrogant towards the municipalities in fighting organized crime. Among other things, one of my good experiences was: When the representative, Mr Werp, was rapporteur and we gathered some municipal forces – not to show arrogance, but to show what opportunities are available locally. This sounds very trivial, but it's perhaps one of the most important measures we're facing. So here's more of a question about how we can motivate and mobilise the municipalities. I believe that we need to clarify the homes and opportunities, and use every opportunity to do so. We have to include that in the writing work on the Storing Message. But, I mean, it's a key to achieving this, and it's using the police councils. And one possibility – I say this a little from the question – may be that there are more facts and tools for the police councils, so that these questions are discussed locally in the police councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1617	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1636	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1645	Norway is a small, rich country with open borders, because we have everything to do with the most open economy and cooperation with the countries around us. The back of the medal, of course, is that we also attract people we don't want here, it's aggressive beggars or criminals – mobile, or more stationary, for that matter. The police and the authorities were not well enough prepared for what more open borders would entail. Now we are trying to close the gaps as best we can within the framework of what is legally possible for a country that is not a member of the EU, but of the EEA and Schengen and various international conventions. Some things are also better in place now than before. But criminal services are struggling to deal with an increasing number of foreign criminals and everything that results from increasing pressure on employees and building masses. There is some babelic confusion, there is an increase in the level of conflict in some institutions and increasing professional challenges. The Council of State therefore has full backing in being the Council of State which, according to the media — unlike some other colleagues — is actively influencing Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the EU and international arenas. When Halden prison was adopted, and in the debates afterwards, all the parties of the Storting agreed that it was important for increased capacity on both doomsday and custody. When we dealt with the Criminal Service Communication, there was full agreement that Halden was in many ways a pilot project to create more effective habilitation and the possibility of repatriation of prisoners in society. Although we have had the impression in the last year through the media that there is a very big difference between the party of the proposers and the rest of the Stortinget, the story is not right, and is probably an example of something that is good in Norwegian justice policy; that we are together about a lot. A unanimous committee then also refers to the predominantly cross-political support that has been given to the development of the Prison of Halden and the expectations of better content of the settlement. The fact that there has been a positive part of Norwegian justice policy has meant that the project has also received international attention. A unanimous committee indicates that Prison Prison has been built to provide a particularly good follow-up during acquittal. Schooling, labour training and good opportunities for cultural and social recreation for prisoners are instruments for reducing reoccurrence crime and contributing to a life without crime after acquittal. However, with regard to the concrete proposal for relocation, the majority believe that there is a good deal of practicality that makes it easier to say than done. The majority also indicate that the figures are slightly different from those of the proposers, because there are about half as many foreign criminals at a given time as what was said in the media. Some of the people you want are actually going to be returned to Norwegian society, which means that the majority believes that some of the reasons for the proposal fail. The majority of the Committee therefore proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. However, on behalf of the Right, I would like to stress that we believe that the design of settlements for foreign criminals in Norway is one of several instruments to reduce the number of foreigners coming to the country with the intention of committing crime, insofar as we still believe that prison should actually act as a preventative measure. The right also believes that the statistical base — which is not so exciting, but is quite important — in order to identify the types of crime that foreign criminals are in for at all times, is partially deficient. It makes good planning and assessment of the measures to be taken in a timely manner by the Storting not having up-to-date information on them. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State to comment on what he intends to do to improve the statistical base, so that the Storting can make better decisions. With regard to the increasing incidence of violence against employees in criminal services, it is not possible that it is not reported routinely. With regard to violence against public officials, there should be no different thresholds for the staff of the criminal service and, for example: policemen. The burden on prison staff is definitely not less than it is for other public officials. In conclusion, therefore, I am promoting the minority proposals in the vote on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1664	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1667	On several occasions, the majority have recently debated the issue of foreign criminals in Norway. That's good, because we all agree that this is a big challenge. In this proposal, we are invited to consider a proposal from three members of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the immediate transfer of foreign prisoners from Halden Prison. I am a little uncertain whether the proposers believe that Halden prison should only be for the Nordics. In that case, I disagree with the proposal – that is also the whole working party group. I hope I am mistaken and would like to make a comment from the proposers on this. Prisons in Norway are to receive convictions and custodians regardless of whether they are Norwegian or not. We cannot discriminate against convicted persons on the grounds of nationality. In my view, everyone should have the same obligations and rights. I assume that the proposers are aware that convicted foreigners residing in Norway are to be returned to a life without crime similar to that of convicted Northmen. The fact that the proposers suggest that the standard in Halden prison is too good for foreigners worries me. I've spent a lot of time getting into the field of justice since I joined the Justice Committee last year, and I have, for that reason, among other things. In Norway, more than half of the prisons were visited. These visits have given me insight into what works well, and what can be better. As for the increasing number of non-residents, the employees inform me that they are largely in agreement with what they think are the challenges and what should be done. On what they think will be the right measures to meet these challenges, they say that they support the government’s proposals for action. They want more settlement transfers, expulsion decisions where appropriate, as well as an assessment of the establishment of their own prison departments. Not everyone agrees that own prison departments are the right solution, but more people still believe that this needs to be assessed – mainly for the following reasons: with their own offices for foreign criminals, they can enhance the competence of employees, both in terms of language and in terms of cultural understanding. In this way, the content of the settlement and the implementation of penalties will be better adapted to the needs of these prisoners than is currently the case. After all, all prisoners are to be returned to a society after an end of residence. This, I think, is a good reason and is the reason why I support the government's work in investigating its own prison departments for foreigners. But we need to assess the benefits and disadvantages of our own prisons for foreigners before we possibly implement them. As far as Halden prison is concerned, it is not right, as the rapporteur on the matter also pointed out, that it is 70 pst. non-residents there, as the proposers claim. The occupancy rate is currently around 37. As I said, I am uncertain whether the proposers believe that foreign criminals should be treated worse than Norwegian criminals. I hope that what they think is that a prison such as Halden Prison, which is built specifically for the purpose of rehabilitation to a life after settlement, should give priority to convictions to be returned to Norwegian society, including foreigners living in Norway. It is with the interpretation that we from the Workers' Party support the proposal to attach the proposal to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1690	On 1 April this year, one of Europe’s most modern prisons, Halden Incarceration, opened in Norway. The prison consists of an entire village, with eleven buildings and state-of-the-art equipment, activity and culture houses consisting of, inter alia, wood workshop, welding workshop, salmaking, assembly workshop, stone grinder, training kitchen, shop, library, training studio, own stage, audio studio for music recording, etc. etc. The rooms are liberal with their own bathroom and TV. Then why am I ramming this up? Well, because the whole purpose of Halden prison was to get to a prison with the emphasis on the rehabilitation of criminals who are going back to Norwegian society after the end of settlement. Now I have to admit that I personally think that it has taken quite a while to see how architects and consultants have been able to move freely. I believe that several settlements with a more sober level would have been the right one. But there's another debate. In the absence of prisons elsewhere in the country and in order to get rid of the settlement queue, the Halden prison has been given an accumulation of foreign criminals who are not to be rehabilitated but are expelled to their home country once the sentence has been completed. It goes without saying that inside prison walls there is an unnecessary high operating cost that is not adapted to the needs. We are aware that there have been some arrests to move more foreign criminals out of prison in Halden, but that is very close enough. We believe that it can be defended to set up own departments or prisons for this type of criminal in order to get them into other reconciliations and then preferably in their own countries. I record that the other parties in the committee provide reasons for allowing settlement and custody in Halden prison lack of space. Yes, it is true that there is a shortage, but then we'd rather build more prisons and set up new custody sites instead of placing foreign criminals in Halden, which thus takes the place of those who are much more in need and are to be returned to continued residence in Norway. I also refer to the Council of State's response in the previous case that we dealt with, document 8:137, on organised crime. I quote from the letter of the Council of State Storberget: ‘The fact that a large proportion of prisoners come from countries other than Norway presents several challenges for criminal justice, inter alia, related to language and cultural understanding. As Minister of Justice, I am concerned about the specific challenges that criminal services face with foreign prisoners. The Ministry of Justice and Police therefore assesses the organisation of its own prisons or detention centres for foreign prisoners, including the specific requirements for the competence and content of such units.’ But why ‘assess’? Why doesn't it say here that 'we want'? I believe that the Council of State in its letter to the Committee on this matter is a bit behind the objective when half the letter describes the measures taken by Norwegian criminals in Halden prison, even though the proposal for a representative primarily concerns the movement of criminal citizens who should not have remained in the country after the end of the settlement. It is also worth taking a look at how it is perceived by criminals outside Norway’s borders that our prisons have hotel standards and daily pay as part of the settlement. Police authorities, inter alia: In Lithuania, the media said that the Norwegian authorities were able to thank themselves for the fact that many foreign criminal groups did not see it as deterrent to criminal activity in Norway, as the settlement conditions were rather regarded as carrots than as punishment, and that the daily allowances paid correspond to an average wage in e.g. Romania and other Eastern European countries. Therefore, it is important that we step up our efforts to achieve more reconciliation agreements, so that Norway does not appear to be the ‘happy country’ to them for dishonest purposes. So a little reply to the representative Torve, who asked if the Progress Party wants Halden prison reserved for Norwegian citizens, or for Norwegians. That's not really what matters. The crucial thing for us is how one should be rehabilitated. One to return to the Norwegian community is assumed to have completely different needs than one to be sent out after a settlement. In that case, a more targeted effort must be made towards these different groups. It has nothing to do with treating one person worse than the other, but it has to do with the treatment and targeting of the measures and rehabilitation adapted to the individual criminal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1712	The President is somewhat uncertain whether the representative Michaelsen promoted the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1715	Then I'll take up the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1720	As a result, proposal 4 in the configuration has been recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1723	When Halden's prison opened in April, it represented a new age in criminal custody, where the main idea is to rehabilitate the prisoner for a good life without crime when he or she returns after acquittal. We're going to have a criminal service that both protects society from dangerous people, and that's going to let the finished zone out into society better equipped to live law-abiding than they were when they got into prison. This is the biggest challenge we have in criminal care today, because we know that so far the prison has been a training place for many people for further criminal activity. In order to ensure a good implementation of penalties, the environment needs to be organised for rehabilitation through school, work and leisure services. In addition, prison is completely new and will appear to some people to be luxurious. That's what the representative Michaelsen has been into. A similar debate arose when the Council of State opened up the ‘new’ Åna prison. I think the Council of State then gave a good response that is in line with our objective of humane and effective criminal execution. It is important to give prisoners who will change their criminal life pattern, a good starting point when they are released, so that fewer fall back into crime. Prisons should also be a good and safe job for the employees, and I enjoy far more prison officers such facilities as you have at this prison. In the case of foreign criminals, the government has taken important steps to ensure that those returning to their country of origin are returned as soon as possible, either through expulsion or acquittal. But I would also like to warn against the generalisation proposed by the proposers when they want to move all foreign prisoners, for the places in the Halden prison must also be able to relieve the care situation in Eastfold. In particular, cross-border crime and mobile crime are challenges that make the need for custody places in this area extra big. The transport of prisoners is resource-intensive and a significant safety issue. Prisoners are the police responsible for both the safety assessment of the transport and the implementation of the transport itself. For both police and criminal services, Halden Prison is a very important resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1740	The Christian People's Party has been a proponent to get Halden in jail. We are pleased that prison is a leader when it comes to giving them close and good follow-up during acquittal. Education and training are important in preventing relapses into a criminal career and in facilitating their return to society. It is important for all those who are going back to Norwegian society, including those who are of foreign origin. When it comes to those who are not going back to the Norwegian community, the Christian People's Party is aware that there are several agreements on reconciliation transfers in place, so that foreign criminals can zone more in their homeland. Otherwise, of course, it should be so that foreign criminals leaving the country after apologies do not receive a follow-up in prison that is appropriate for those to return to Norwegian society. At the same time, there may be practical reasons why foreign prisoners in Norwegian prisons are placed in Halden prison for periods, such as: to ensure closeness to the investigation or due to capacity problems. The Christian People's Party will therefore not vote for any of the proposals, with the exception of proposal No. 2, from the Right Party and the Progress Party, on measures to ensure that the elected members of the Criminal Service are informed and followed up. This is important, and it must be a priority task to ensure that the security and security of the members of the criminal service are as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1751	First of all, I will be allowed to express some surprise at the progress party's handling of the opening of the new prisons and the rehabilitations we agree on. I'm not going to use characteristics on it, it might break parliamentary terms, but it's like – as I recorded others were in it – that when the Stortinget discussed the content of St.meld. No 37 for 2007-2008 on criminal law, and once we have adopted future budgets, we have had the support of the Progress Party in all these matters. As soon as the TV light is turned on during the opening, whether it's on Åna, or it's in Halden, at my discretion, the argument comes out that you're really willing to turn on very important questions of principle and in very important actual questions – what this really is about – where the flat screens are going on, and how rehabilitation and getting down the crime is pushed far away. The voters get to judge a party that chooses to support the appropriations and political decisions here in the house, and once the action is opened, you fly away from it as quickly as it is. The four-man rooms, for example, with which we got rid of Åna, have been one of the major challenges we've had for many years, and it has meant a very bad way of making up for many, where young boys have simply been sitting on a four-man room and planned crime. So we're going to open this up, and we're going to be pretty close to the sheiks about it in the press. I just want to say that I think it's a kind of political activity that I think the voters – at least I hope – notice, because for the government this is one of the most important things we do. First of all, in the case of Halden prison, I will also reject the claim of the depositor that 70 pst. by the prisoners are non-residents. My reply to the Justice Committee shows that the total proportion of foreigners was 37,5 p.m., and by November 10 it was also about 37 p.m. Foreigners in Halden Prison. This is a prison for which we have high ambitions. We also experience that the other parties in the opposition, with the exception of the Advance Party, have high ambitions for this facility. Our goal is to get a prison that meets the ambitious goals we've set in the criminal services bulletin. I'm glad that Halden prison is just contributing to this. We see that the care situation has improved, sail if there is high pressure still in places. We see a significant improvement in the quality of the offer, and it also reaps international recognition. I want to take this opportunity now, since there have been many disputes and criticisms around Halden prison, to be allowed to praise the employees of Halden prison, who have made a great effort at the establishment and not least now in implementing the policy that is now taking place. In a short time, they have built up a prison that we can be proud of, not only in national contexts, but also in international contexts. In my opinion, the representatives of the population take too little account of the fact that foreign prisoners are a complex group. There are currently over 1,100 foreigners in Norwegian prisons from about 100 nationalities. Some of the foreign prisoners live in Norway. It does not reflect the Party of Advancement. Some will continue to live in Norway after the end of the sentence, and some will leave Norway. I therefore believe that the representative, among other things, Mr Ropstad. is about something essential: we need to adapt the content of the reaction based on the person we're facing. It is not natural to start a long educational programme with someone who will, for example: be in prison for 60 days, which shall then be returned to the country of origin. I'm confident that the police will actually do it. It is said that foreign criminals who are not linked to Norway should not be given priority to being admitted to the Prison of Halden. For this group, we put in place targeted actions, so that we can seize, judge and send them out of the country as quickly as possible. In this respect, I also refer to the interview of the representative André Oktay Dahl to increase the number of settlement transfers and reduce the number of criminals in prisons, which was answered here in Stortinget on 21 October 2010. There I explained a number of measures, including: the settlement transfer agreement concluded with Romania. Suffering about the number of settlements being transferred, as of today is too low, there is no reason to say that the government does not have ambitions in this field. Therefore, I do not support the proposal by the stockbrokers for an immediate transfer of all foreign prisoners from the Halden prison. It will not contribute to a reduction in crime, nor will it contribute to more effective criminal justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1772	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1775	The Council of State was committed to this settlement transfer agreement that Norway has now concluded with Romania. Now the Justice Committee, known to the Council of State, was recently in Romania. We felt a great interest from the Romanian authorities in implementing this agreement. The Romanians showed great willingness to accept their citizens who have committed criminal acts in Norway. Then my question is to the Council of State: To what extent does he see that this agreement will now be implemented, and how many do he see can be transferred in the next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1782	In terms of the number and settlement transfer, I dare not make any estimates. In addition, it depends very much on how long people are convicted, and in fact how many Romanians will come to Norway to commit criminal offences. I fully agree with the representative of Kielland Asmyhr that we experienced a great goodwill from the Romanian authorities when we negotiated this agreement. It was not obvious that we got a pass in such an agreement. We know how much pressure the capacity is down there, but at the same time we got to the agreement. It is also a good model of what we want in an accession agreement with the EU, where we remove the possibilities, which today, of refusing a settlement transfer, and where we open up to have deadlines for the proceedings. I am optimistic that at least the law and the contract work will now work. So after the Storting has adopted new legislation in this area, which is needed, we will be able to transfer more than what we get to do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1789	I think we can agree that there is a certain difference between the compensation of foreign nationals and Nordics with a foreign ethnic background, as to how these should be followed up and the progress in the compensation. That's not what I wanted to ask. We have seen that violence in Norwegian prisons has increased considerably, at least in certain prisons, and that measures must be taken to protect other prisoners and staff in Norwegian prisons. I assume that the Council of State takes this seriously, and that he will make his employees, his subjects, not be subjected to violence when they are at their place of work. What has the Council of State done in that way? What action will the Council of State take, and what has he taken to prevent Norwegian prison staff from being subjected to violence by the prisoners?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1798	The most important measure taken to reduce tension in prisons and violence against employees is not what the Progress Party wants: quality measures are included in the compensation; it is to give people the opportunity to education, housing, drug treatment and other quality help. We have good coverage to say, too much of the work done, is the dynamic security and security work in prisons. So I'm not sure the Progress Party should go so high on the track and say it's the party that creates peace and quiet in the prisons. It's also one of the important arguments we have to take with us when we're going to assess whether to set up our own units just for foreigners. So many of the employees in prisons and also the trade unions are warning against it. There is a risk of getting an atmosphere and situations inside prisons that cause more violence against, among other things. the employees and more insecurity also for the other prisoners. For me, it is a paradox that one part of this debate chooses to focus heavily on creating its own departments, where there is no offer that can help to slow it down a little and get other things to do in everyday life, and at the second moment, there is a call for measures to mitigate violence in Norwegian prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1805	I do not think what the minister here says about the fact that the Progress Party has turned around, can be undisputed, because it is actually not the case that we have turned around in relation to whether the media search lights are on the issues or not. It is probably the case in Stortinget that when a person treats an extension or construction of a new prison, such as the Halden prison, one relates to a framework, and that is framework budgeting. One doesn't go into it and says it's going to be there: we're going to have art for 6 million. kr, we're going to have tiled here or flat screen there, which are the words I understand used in the media. But anyway, the whole thing doesn't go in and say anything. There's a total enterprise being created, and a framework in the budget. One doesn't go in and add leads for what the content should be. As I said in my post, it was important to see the possibilities of getting more seats, with a good standard, absolutely good standard, but not that a person spends money in areas that you might not want when the checkout is scarce.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1812	It's strange to hear the Progress Party now. So you're going to be able to give 1.3 billion. kr to one of the largest investment projects in the justice sector, and then you run away and say, "We didn't know the content of it." I would probably, even if I was in opposition, be somewhat interested in what I was going to do and grant 1.3 billion. If I gave support to it in Stortinget. I might have been a little bit better at what this prison actually means, because it's been pretty clear all along, even in debates in the Storting, what kind of offers are going to be there, among other things. what the representative, André Oktay Dahl, pointed to in his statement, was given a broad review in St.meld. No 37 for 2007-2008. I believe that the Advancement Party must rise and take responsibility for the decisions that have been taken to make, and dry up for them. It would not only benefit the policy, but it would also benefit all the people who are being rehabilitated and not falling back to new crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1819	I'm not going to ask questions about tile laying. I'm going to ask questions about something that's really about whether we know what's going on, and what's not happening in criminal matters, and that's what I also mentioned in my report. The right-wing group sent a request to the investigation department here at Stortinget to provide an overview of the types of crime which groups, the nationalities of Norwegian prisons. What we got was that there was almost not that kind of statistics. It had to go back to 2006 to get the latest up-to-date figures. Now Norway is not alone in having a little overview of this, but it does make it difficult for us to have a real debate about who is in Norwegian prisons, and for what. Then I would like to ask the question: how will the Council of State ensure that we get better statistics so that we can dimension our supply better? I think that might be some reason why you can operate with 70 pst. foreign criminals, while the real number is 37.5 pst. Then it's either the media that misunderstands, or it's like the statistics that you have are too bad, and you can draw the wrong conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1828	I'm registering the Right Recording and the Right Suggestions. I believe that when it comes to the number of foreigners in Norwegian prisons, we have a good overview, where we have numbers running. We've been totally dependent on having that, for example. in order to intensify work on reconciliation transfer – not just how many we have, but where they come from. We also depend on knowing how long the sentence is. In my view, in the context of the news of organized crime, we must also address the question of how we can better analyse the crime that is taking place. I will now inform you in the debate that this is a proposal that I will take with me in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1834	I must first be allowed to say that I think the Council of State is playing very loud, especially because he criticises the Party of Advancement for not being more detailed in terms of demanding the content of the appropriations. This government allocates billions of billions every year. I'd like to see the magnificence representative from the position who is involved in the detailed management of the content and the interior of the institutions to which they give money. No one does, and the government also knows very well. But it's probably because this government has failed hugely in its billion investments in a number of areas, not just in this field. Then I must also be allowed to say that in the case of the Åna prison, the Council of State is trying to give the impression that someone in the Advance Party has been out criticising. No, it was the council itself that, under its appeal in prison, managed to send a message to me, without me present, that flat screens were cheaper than diaphragms. It was the state council that took up the flat screen issue, and not the Progress Party. I just want to end with a question: if it is the case that in the previous case you wanted to build your own prisons for foreigners, or at least wanted to assess it, why is it so bad that the Progress Party in this case suggests it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1843	It's unclear to me what the Progress Party really thinks, whether it's the flat screens and the interior that pose the problem in criminal custody, or whether it's the big features. The fact that you build a content-good offer, which has been well known to the Progress Party, that you get education, vocational guidance, drug treatment and the possibility of living, I thought it was the motivated Progress Party to propose to establish its own departments, not what kind of loss or what kind of TV it was. That's why I'm a little surprised that you're now distancing yourself from what's the carrybar of the prison content. Even when we opened up Åna prison, they almost made it so that the government had a new stupidity when they removed the four-man rooms. It has also had the full attention of the Progress Party over a long, long period of time that you wanted to grant money here in the house, and also have done so, to remove these rooms. Then I thought it was that you got exclusive, which was the problem, and that you got the standard you have, and not necessarily what kind of wallpaper or interior it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1848	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1853	I think it has been sad to hear from the State Council of Storberget in this matter, because it is obvious that he understands that he has a bad case. We now experience that the state councils and individual representatives of the government parties come up with undocumented allegations about the policy of the Progress Party. There are two main intentions of putting someone in prison. One is that it should be individual-preventive – that the individual who has committed a criminal offence understands that this is not a trick. The second main reason is to protect society. This is what the Progress Party is building on its criminal policy. I don't think anyone in this room disagrees that it's the main point to put people in prison. To say from the pulpit that the Progress Party does not want content in the settlement, that the Progress Party does not want people to be able to take education, and to claim that people should not be able to work in prison, should have been charged by the President, for that is a relatively unsubstantiated argument. But when we discuss how the implementation of penalties should be general prevention, it is quite clear that there will be a great difference between Norwegian prisoners and foreign prisoners. That is the issue we have wanted to address in this proposal for a representative. When foreign prisoners, who come from villages in Africa or from Romania, where the committee has recently been, where the standard of living is miles away from what you have in Norway, end up in Halden prison, where you get all kinds of offers – you get daily pay, you get three good meals a day, you get the clothes you need, and you get your own room with a bath – it is clear that you have to question how general preventive it is for that group. The Council of State said that foreign criminals going out of the country should not be given priority in Halden prison. Is it possible for the Grand Mountains here from Stortinget's pulpit to provide a guarantee in relation to that statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1866	In terms of the content of housing, rehabilitation and preparation for a normal social life, there is a cross-political consensus – the Progress Party included, if the Council of State is not informed about it. The Progress Party has repeated several times in this Chamber. The fact that, to my mind, the Council of State is trying to defend itself by attacking innocuously is, for my part, a confirmation that the Council of State is very uncertain about its process. We still have not received an answer. For the representative, Torve, it was out-of-date, yes, almost a violation of human rights, I realized, that you had to have your own atoning relationships for foreign criminals. But the Council of State said in the previous case that consideration is being given to organising its own prisons or prisons for foreign criminals. I see no difference, except that the government will only assess in this case, while the Progress Party will adopt. You don't want to discuss that. The progress party will have exactly the same rehabilitation, but we will have other reconciliations in terms of time and where the rehabilitation is going to take place. This government has released a number of criminals too early, says the Advance Party. Yes, this government has let people out in open atoning, free atonement and electronic atonement too early, believes the Advance Party. The government is uncritical of which groups get that kind of compensation. There is disagreement between the Progress Party, because we have a stronger focus on those who are victims and those who are exposed to criminal acts. We also have a stronger focus on securing society than this government. That is the political disagreement. But to come up with inaccuracies in this way as the Council of State does, which itself wants to focus on flat screens, gets to account for the Council of State. It's also quite right, as Michaelsen's representative said: we don't sit here on the Stortinget and decide what kind of tiles to have, whether to have your own bath, or whether to have flat screens or not. You've never decided that. That's why it's right to comment on it in retrospect. If it's the standard of Halden Prison or the Åna Prison that's the only right standard for getting good rehabilitation, yeah, then we have a lot of bad rehabilitation in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1877	The President will notice that on the screens that are on the walls here, it's sometimes 5 minutes, but it's 3 minutes' speaking time that's allocated to all of the people who are now given the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1880	We can start an evaluation of the impact of the new wetting plant in relation to all of the millions that have been used, but we can do that another time. I'm a little impressed by the ability to misunderstand each other so completely. It is that all parties agree that Halden prison is good. All lots agree that it was necessary to build it, both because of its capacity and content. So here you can get a solid debate about tiles or flat screens, whether you're in favour or against it. I honestly believed that both the Minister of Justice and that to now the largest opposition party could conduct this kind of debate without going into that kind of trench war. I think that, out of respect for the victims of crime and of respect for those who are in the Prison and perhaps are to be returned to society, we are going to hold the debate at a slightly more serious level. It's not to be typical right-wing arrogant, but I might sometimes think that we can try to say the same thing here as what we say in the media. The background that suddenly became a very conflict related to Halden prison was that the Nett newspaper called and asked if it was okay that older people had caught it, while prisoners were doing well. Everyone understands when you get that question, that there are several ways to answer that question, whether or not you should be on the premises for the question. So there were people who chose to be on the premises for the question and set them up against each other, while there were others who chose not to. That is the starting point for the debate we have had now. I hope that we can continue to be concerned about what we all agree on, namely that we will have fewer foreign criminals in Prison. We all agree on that. We also agree that we need to evaluate whether Halden Prison works better than other prisons because we have the quality of what it has. It'll be very exciting to see. Because if we, for example, data show that there is a higher relapse into crime by being in Prison, you can wonder if it was the right thing to spend so much money on it. But we don't know yet. I hope we can end this debate without it continuing to be a debate on flat screens or tiles. Because I'm actually assuming, even though we haven't discussed the colour of the tiles or how wide the screen should be, that there are competent people who have thought of themselves in the framework of the budgets, without politicians having to spend too much time discussing what is ultimately a penny. But then it should be said that in criminal matters there is a terrible little check on what the money goes to. There is almost no research on the results of the work of criminal services. It seems like everything that happens in Norwegian criminal care, lots of projects, the program business, is a big and well-kept secret, so we have to keep it as it has always been. There I think the Council of State has an important job to do, which he has also signaled. We need a more knowledge-based justice policy. But then we actually also have to be willing to acquire that kind of knowledge, whether it's statistics or research results, and get available knowledge, so that we may later adopt lower budgets, but with or without flat screens and tiles.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1895	I am not sure that the representative Sandberg has been in the room all along and listened to my entire post. From the statements from the pulpit here, it might suggest something else. He can't exactly blame the dialect either, because we have a relatively similar dialect. I actually had a prepared post, in writing, so I can repeat what I read about my own departments for foreign criminals. I pointed out that on my tours in prison, I have received feedback that not all employees agree that their own prison departments are the right solution. Several believe that this needs to be considered, with the following reasons: ‘With its own departments for foreign criminals, it is possible to enhance the competence of employees, both in terms of language and cultural understanding. In this way, the content of the settlement and the implementation of penalties will be better adapted to the needs of these prisoners than is currently the case. After all, all prisoners are to be returned to a society after an end of residence. This, I think, is a good reason and is the reason why I support the government's efforts to investigate its own prison departments for foreigners more closely."
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1907	I belong to those who believe that this debate is important, because during the last year we have seen that there has become a more and more debate about whether prisons should only be isolated, physical shells, where the offer should really be the worst possible, have been produced as, and much of the emphasis on quality in the settlement has been pushed aside from the political debate. That is why I think it is important that we take that debate and that it should come out. It can help us get a debate on something more than tiles and flat screens, which I am asked about when we open new departments. There are two aspects of this debate that I think are important and which I think the Progress Party ignores in the debate. The first is against security, both for the employees and for the other prisoners. What kind of environment do we get in prison – getting calmer, getting better security – if we create the kind of prison institutions I get the impression of when I hear the Progress Party out in debate? Prisoners say no. They say that many of the content activities that are now in Norwegian prisons — there may be a short course for those who are there for only 30 days — contribute to people being employed and taking it easy. I prefer it. When, in the same debate, this is precisely a matter of certainty, I think you should be able to confront them with what you have actually said just minutes before in the same debate. It is a political choice if you want this content statement. I experienced that the Stortinget was very wide-ranging around the staging message that was dealt with in the previous period about this. The other aspect that I feel that the Progress Party often draws forward is that it's kind of a mockery of the victims of crime to have it like this. It's just going back to look at what's quoted in the media. I have a completely different approach to it, and I have it because I have met many victims of crime. And they're really saying the opposite: we want a settlement that helps you not fall back to new crime so that there are more victims like me. It says many people who have been subjected to crime. I think it's worth listening to. So this unison presentation often of the fact that it is the toughest reconciliation conditions, without any particular content, that contribute to the satisfaction of the victims, in my opinion, is also wrong. That's why it's so important the work that's now done in the criminal care of the whole country, where you actually follow up a lot of what was in the big news – establishing the 11th sleep-stricken unit, providing education in all prisons, making it possible to live with housing consultants, etc., etc. It is a political consciousness, would action that we establish these offers, and I don't think we should shamble away with light political arguments, which may be timely when the TV cameras are turned on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1920	I have to say – and I said that in my previous post – that I am amazed at the approach of the Council of State in this debate, and I was not less surprised after the last article. I'm right behind the Council of State, so I've registered that he's been here in the Chamber for the whole debate. This may indicate that the Government believes that the Progress Party does not want any content in the compensation and that we are against the content of the compensation. It's not the Progress Party. But the Progress Party wants there to be a difference in the content of the compensation for those who are to be here in the country after the settlement has ended, and for those who are to be sent out of the country at first opportunity. There is a significant difference, and it would surprise me if the government council Storberget and the government parties believed that the two groups should have the same content of the settlement. That is why we have this debate. It is the whole issue the Progress Party wants to address by addressing this proposal on who is going to zone in Europe's most modern prison. So you're talking about this with the security aspect in prison. I have also been talking to employees in one of Norway's largest prisons. They say that within the prison walls there are about wild conditions, it is the prisoners who govern, and because of the government's budgetary policy in terms of criminal custody, there are too few employees compared to the prisoner groups that are there. It's a feedback that we in the Justice Committee have to take seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1927	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 630]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1943	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. It will also be suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1952	The Committee believes that there are many positive input and views in the proposal for a representative that we are now considering. All parties are concerned with a more targeted effort to reduce the number of young people who fall into a day-to-day pattern of debauchery, intoxication and crime. A number of the proposals put forward here by the proposers are part of a major interaction to succeed, not only in terms of prevention, but not least in terms of the government's responsibility for taking the right decisions. But only the parties of the Progress Party and the Right have so far joined in the concrete proposals made in the proposal, although I have now received a signal that the Christian People's Party will support most of these. The Committee is also aware that a legislative proposal will be presented in the spring of 2011 to include government parties’ policies. The Committee meets it with anticipation. The Progress Party believes that the causes of crime committed by children and young people are complex and complex. Therefore, the measures needed to stop the criminal activity must also be diverse. Experience has shown that the responsibility for poor behavioral children and young people has unfortunately been easy to powder. It is therefore particularly important in prevention to ensure that establishments with different competences and offers are familiar with each other and also cooperate. In this way, the most appropriate measures can be put in place at the right time for each young person. It is also a thought that most children and young people who commit crime have a history of child protection. Our responsibility as politicians must therefore be much greater to address the issue of prevention. Early efforts are widely used in the school sector, but this is really true of the whole growth of our children and young people. We know that someone in the kindergarten can already see negative behavior that could escalate if it's not caught early enough. An even closer cooperation between kindergarten/school and homes is the right way to go. Society as we know it today has different standards and more demands for individual young people than before. Most parents are out of work and do not have the same possibility of being close to the child, which was more common before. We also see that children and young people who come from socially weak homes, or from home beset by violence and intoxication, are often affected by this by solitude and social exclusion in their neighbourhood. Lack of follow-up, demarcation and confirmation means that these easily end up on the slope and out in crime. The reindeer replaces the missing family. Building the individual's self-confidence and strengthening the ability to master stands here central to being able to say no when other lures. Drug use will often be a fluke at first, until the individual has become addicted and does not manage without it. Therefore, we need to give clear signals that we have zero tolerance to all drug use, in order to provide a clear framework and limit to children and young people who need to deal with this to a large extent. Therefore, it is a great paradox that more children and young people who are under the care and responsibility of child protection make their first experiences of drug abuse in the period they are in contact with child protection. Therefore, it is not often enough to say how important it is to put in place a child protection system that works for the child, and which is much more capable of tearing down the barriers between the professionals and the institutions, so that there is a long-term work, and thus ensures that things are connected, so that no one experiences falling between two chairs. I would also like to highlight the importance of voluntary work carried out in the prevention of children and young people. There is no doubt that the efforts made by teams and associations around the whole country greatly contribute to the fact that we do not have an even larger group of criminal youths. The creation of different ‘homes of free will’, where children and young people can step in for adult contact, a pat on their cheeks or simply a little help for the homework, is worth gold in a regular everyday life. Let's give these organisations a framework that gives them the opportunity to continue working on the prevention work for children and young people. Finally, I must express my disappointment that no more parties have been able to support these proposals in the committee. Every week, new young people start a criminal racetrack. That's why you need action now, and not training. And then I also take up the suggestions that the Progress Party and the Right stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1982	The representative Åse Michaelsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1985	There is a broad consensus on the theme included in this proposal. It shall be apparent from the observations made in the opinion delivered by the Committee. The rapporteur has done a good job in obtaining that agreement, as the setting is shaped. There might not be any reason to use words like ‘threning’, etc. on the work we have had on these proposals. Here, the government parties have taken the matter very seriously, entered into each proposal, discussed what is being done, and how to proceed, actually conscientiously at each point, and were positive on all points subject to one point: increases in the amounts of the compensation law. That's the difference. This is probably one of the examples that the Justice Committee is also working together on a wide range of issues, and where the government parties, which may be normal, are aiming towards the big news that has been notified for a while about these issues, which will be on the spring side. I think that our feedback on all the proposals is so welcome and positive, and also the common position is that there should be a basis for this debate. I would just like to comment on some of the measures mentioned in the proposals that I think are particularly important. One concerns school work, proposal No. Three, about your own police contact. I think a lot of police districts are organizing an active work for each school. Some people use their own police contact, while some people work together on it. I think it's a very important task. Among other things, we have See now, drug sales to and from non-secondary schools, as reported from the Oslo area and elsewhere in the country. It is a very ugly and serious form of crime, where there is a great need to strengthen cooperation between school and police. There have also been reports. In the evening of Oslo, there have been some problems for the police to have access to schools as part of that cooperation, and that some principals have had a practice that has been a little difficult for the police to follow drugs into schoolyards. It is important to clarify, so that cooperation works well. However, in the same report, there were also examples of Vice-Chancellors who offered very good cooperation with the police on such measures. Because it is important both to prevent and to set limits when discovering such phenomena, even in our high schools. What is contained in proposal No. 7, on consent-based armaments, as indicated by the Council of State's reply to the Committee, it would not be a problem to implement today within the framework of data protection rules, etc., as mentioned in the proposal. I would also like to mention a matter which I believe is very important, and which is contained in proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox It mentions the mentoring system for criminal children under the criminal valender. We have mentioned in the Action Plan "Good Forces", the work of follow-up teams. The action plan proposes that we have a national spread based on some experience in the big cities with such follow-up teams. I myself have followed that work quite carefully at two police stations in Oslo, the Majorstien and Stovner. I've seen that with a follow-up team at Stovner around eleven children and young people who had committed a lot of crime there, with whom it was worked closely by the police for a long time, it was after two years only one of them, who had previously been quite hyperactive in terms of crime, who had come out on the glacier again. So it's useful to implement this kind of action, and it's absolutely right to focus on it, regardless of whether we call it mentoring or follow-up team. It's another thing I also see I can get time to focus on, and it's proposal No. 12, on the overall strategy to combat the misuse of cat. It is a matter that has been up in Stortinget on several occasions. If you go down to Greenland camp and see who buys cat and sits and chews cat, there's probably so many adults and adult groups. It is a very serious problem that develops in one environment in Oslo, to which many within one minority group are exposed. I fully agree that a better strategy should be developed for that group. The Council of State also warns that it will come back to this in the context of the anti-drug addiction measures dealt with in the Stoltenberg Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e1998	Justice policy is in many ways all that the Justice Committee is not directly responsible for. It's school policy, it's child protection, it's mental health, and it's volunteer policy. Then we might be able to focus on the need for more policemen who have time to do preventive work. I don't think that's going to happen, but we can do that on another occasion, because there may be employment problems there. I am very pleased that there is so much cross-political support verbally and in the form of a note, although of course I am of the opinion that the Right's policy in all areas is significantly better than that of the government parties, otherwise we would not have been different parties. The rapporteur has given a good account of the contents of the Right-wing proposal, to which the Progress Party has joined. I think that in part of the angle of incidence of how we're going to solve it more closely, we're going to see a very clear ideological distinction in the future between the opposition parties – four pieces – and the government parties. Then I will address something that is not necessarily mentioned directly in the proposals, but which is a prerequisite for us to do something with some of the young people that fall outside: a theme such as opening hours in the public sector. A lot of the young people and the kids that we can't catch have problems after 8 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox They have big problems all day, not least in the evening, but then adults are not available and present and can take care of them. Here, I think there is a very important ideological distinction, because here I believe I am familiar with an overall opposition that there is actually a need for more privatisation in the voluntary sector. We have employed more and more care workers – yes, and competence is important and good. But the question is, are you necessarily caring even if you are a care worker? There are now so many examples of children and young people who have fallen through for so many years, but who have only received help when they have come into contact with parts of the voluntary private offer, which unfortunately have been abandoned under the current regime. Then there is another issue that is important to the Right and a single greatness, that there is a need for a duty of professional secrecy reform, because it does not hold that so many children should have to experience so much negatively without having consequences for the professional, well-trained persons who have violated the rules of professional secrecy at their discretion. There I would like to congratulate the representative, Bøhler, who has said in the past that there is actually a need for some markings as to what kind of duty and responsibility you have as a professional with regard to children and youth that falls outside when you do not do your job in relation to them. Some of the challenges we address in proposals here, not least the debate we have on municipal structure, is up-to-date. If we are to get a confidentiality regulation that is for the benefit of children and young people, we simply need fewer municipalities, because some municipalities are so small that – I know – there are case handlers who refuse to do their job because they are afraid of the consequences of their own job situation. I think that is actually one of the most important arguments in the debate on municipal structure on the child protection side and in order to prevent more children and young people from falling outside. So in the case of child protection institutions, there is a paradox that there are still cases where the practice of a child protection institution would have inspired a care failure if one had been a parent and behaved the same way in setting limits for some young people. I note that the Swedish Children's Association supports the Right's proposal that more stringent coercive homes should be provided where necessary. We had an interpellation on the Right about one percent of the environments within the MCs, which are deliberately recruiting child-restraints to commit crime separately. It says something about the fact that this proposal also partly has something to do with combating organised crime, as it simply recruits the weakest in society. Bøhler was involved with this with police contact. It is quite right – we have similar situations in Akershus – that there are some principals who object to the police having an active dialogue with the youth. Unfortunately, there are some school leaders who are not aware of their responsibilities, and see that they actually have a responsibility for the working environment of students outside the classroom, so that the police can be made available, and that they can combat the increasing drug abuse that we see in some Akershus schools, like in Oslo. Finally, proposal No. 10: When the Right, together with the Advance Party, proposes a national preventive doping legislation, it is because the prevention work on doping is almost zero. Focus recently showed how to spend millions of dollars on organized sport, while the guys who are big on the outside, but small inside, get about no help, and the knowledge and the auxiliaries are minimal. I recommend that several titties extra on it, even if they do not vote for the proposals in the room today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2019	Good childhood means a lot to how we get it later in life. Children grow up with very different living conditions and face different challenges along the way. SV and the government believe that all children have the right to a good start to their lives, regardless of the starting point. That's why we need to catch up and help children who have mental and social problems or other challenges, and that has to happen early. Poverty, illness, social problems or lack of Norwegian knowledge give some children a lower starting point than others. It is often possible to see very early which children are at high risk of later problems. Many of these children are not followed up well enough. When problems are not discovered and taken care of early enough, they grow larger and become more difficult to solve. The parents are responsible for taking care of their children, and most people do this in a very good way. Nevertheless, for different reasons, there are children who need more help than their parents can give them. When the public fails in this area, the children with the worst starting point are affected. This is a main reason why social mobility in Norway is too poor. These children need to be seen and assisted as early as possible, and they need to be prioritised as when a 50-year-old experiences a heart attack — the necessary measures must be taken immediately. That is why I am so pleased that the prevention perspective is so central to the government's child and youth policy and criminal policy. It's good that all the parties on the Storing are concerned about this. As a number of speakers have pointed out, many of the measures in this proposal are either measures that the government has already implemented or are under way. One prerequisite for success in prevention is good interdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary cooperation. This presupposes that those working with children and young people have sufficient knowledge, for example: on the obligation and access to disclosure of information, inter alia: for the protection of children. Children and young people do not live their lives within sector boundaries. The sectoring of responsibilities and services increases the risk of fragmented and untargeted solutions. At the same time, coordination is a demanding exercise. It requires good time, clear cooperation procedures and not least the knowledge of others who have tasks and responsibilities in relation to children and young people. The SLT model, developed by KRAED, is a good example of successful coordination in prevention work for children and young people. In addition, there are some prevention measures that are not mentioned in the proposal for a representative, which we believe are absolutely crucial prevention measures. This applies, inter alia, to: ensuring good kindergartens, schools and leisure activities to ensure sufficient resources for child protection to invest in follow-up teams for young offenders to strengthen the control of sales and donations to balance living conditions differences in order to combat child and youth crime; I fully agree that children and young people who commit crimes must face rapid reaction and follow-up. In 2007, a sample was set up to look at the responses of children and young people aged 15 to 18 who commit criminal acts. The investigation presented in 2008 is now under follow-up by the government, and I look forward to dealing with it for spring. The basis for good prevention work is an overall commitment to a growing-up environment that includes all — where everyone is seen and where everyone is made use of their resources. To do that, we need local forces playing with each other. We need responsible politicians, and we need caring adults and engaged children. It deserves our children and our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2061	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is thus late. The stork will take a break in the negotiations until 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The first speaker at the evening meeting is Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2095	Fighting crime is a battle that must be fought in almost all areas of society. In order to avoid young people becoming criminals, early efforts are undoubtedly important. Prevention must provide all opportunities for developing and experiencing mastery in life. As the setting here shows, there is a broad consensus that an effort to prevent young people from becoming criminals is important. That's a good starting point for the further work. For the Centre Party, it is particularly important to point out that good prevention efforts need to include more instances. The school is an obvious hub in this work, but in order to achieve good results, it needs to interact between home, leisure, police, health and other public services. The proximity of these services is therefore important. Controversy depends on the knowledge of the community and the knowledge of each other's work before the crisis. As seen, the Centre Party’s commitment to good communities is the best measure in terms of crime prevention. Noise problems are often the gateway to a lasting criminal situation. The prevention of drug abuse must therefore be at the heart of public health work. The government, through the Stoltenberg Committee on Drugs, has an assessment of new interventions in the field of drugs. The report has now been submitted for consultation, with a deadline of 7 January 2011. I would like to make the proposal that the sample made when it comes to actively using the Internet: websites, blogs and online communities for a common approach to drugs. It's about meeting young people where they are, and thinking about how we can give young people the courage to make their own choices. At the same time, I believe that the Committee is very scrambled when they say the following: ‘The Committee believes that the criminalisation of use and sales continues to give clear signals from society that drugs are not accepted.’ I'm glad. Two areas outside the field of justice policy, which are nevertheless particularly important for facilitating good life, are child protection and measures against school dropout. There's been a lot of attention around both of these areas. More and more young people are being helped by child protection, but in order to provide good services, child protection needs to be provided with sufficient resources, good professional skills and stimulated for good cooperation. In the future labour market, it will be demanding for those with only primary education. In order to increase the individual’s ability to work, to earn income and to master his or her own life, it will be essential that more people receive secondary education. For society, this has been a huge gain. Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen said to the magazine Education April 23rd this year: ‘If we get 10 percent more to implement, society saves from five to nine billion dollars a year. Early efforts, better performance in basic skills and a more reality secondary school can deliver results in the long term.’» I believe that this work is not so advanced, but that it is important to have good efforts and a broad range of measures. I am pleased that an overall committee seems to share that opinion, although there is some disagreement about which measures are the most effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2118	Prevention must be a cornerstone of policy, not least in order to create safer societies, unless crime is committed. I would therefore like to commend the proposers for taking up several good measures to stop the recruitment of criminals at as early a time as possible. It is a fact that many today know insecurity because of increasing power and crime. Many could have been avoided by preventive work in the community and early efforts against young people at risk. It's a strange priority when we're around Municipality-Noreg world champions keeping track of our loved ones. It will ensure that you have parked properly and that you do not stand for one minute too long, while at the same time leaving a young person at risk to walk quite undisturbed without intervention. The police are at the heart of the prevention work. The Christian People’s Party wants a police force that prioritises preventive work and early efforts towards young people at risk. In this context, close contact between school and police is important. The proposal that each school should have its own contact with the police is therefore good. In that context, I would like to say that a preventive police force is a police force that is visible in the community. Unfortunately, the police’s own operational report for the period 2002-2008 concludes that fewer officials have become visible in the public order service. This is contrary to Stortinget's intention to reform the police force on a closer and more visible police force. This development must be reversed. The police must have financial room to increase the staffing and strengthen the preventive work. Unfortunately, this room does not exist in the government's budget for the next year. When we talk about prevention, I would also express scepticism that more and more local offices in the districts are being laid down without establishing a better supply for the population. Organizational arrests that take the police further away from people should be stopped. Crime begins in a small way, in the community. Police must be in place where derailments start and become familiar with young people who are entering a bad path. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal to design a national preventive doping law. Doping causes great psychological and physical harm to the users, and the Christian People's Party believes that the criminalisation of doping use can be a necessary tool. The Christian People's Party also supports the other proposals in the draft representative and will vote in favour of them, with the exception of proposal No. 1, on SLT cooperation in all municipalities, and proposal No. Seven, about armaments in the school. The Christian People's Party does not consider it appropriate to make SLT cooperation compulsory in the municipalities. Municipalities vary in size and transparency. Many municipalities have found good cooperation models without complying with the SLT principle. We should still have this flexibility. When there is rusting in the school, we support this, but see no need to support a proposal for it, since, as I understand it, it is already allowed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2133	First of all, I have to say that it is great at the brink of a long day that we are discussing what really counts when it comes to fighting crime, and with which Norway has been successful for many years under varying governments, namely that it is able to prevent. I take with me all the signals that come on the prevention side, because it is that when we discuss the development of the public sector and the society we live in, we discuss very much questions about repairing – getting in when an action has happened, without perhaps having the necessary focus on how we could have avoided this action happening. There are many measures – here we really need to have the breadth with us. The representative, Geir Pollestad, had several points in his article. Among other things, the housing structure we have helps us to have a lower crime rate than other countries we naturally compare with. I am convinced that by preventing urbanisation – building large cities where the population lives, to a greater extent than in Norway – we avoid a lot of pressure problems. It is fascinating to think that after World War II Norway has had a situation of juvenile delinquency, which at least in relation to comparable countries, is very positive. At 97-98 pst. Of them under the age of 18, we'll never be charged with anything punishable, we'll be very happy for. There's school, there's health, there's child protection challenges in it. It's drug policy, and it's also issues of housing. I want to say that when it comes to taking the necessary action on the reaction side to children and young people, it is known that the government has had a work going on. We had a sample that was set up in 2007 and which investigated what measures society should have available to people aged 15 to 18 who commit serious or repeated crime, and the sample report, NOU 2008:15, Children and Penalties, was presented in 2008. It is as a follow-up to this work that the Ministry is now working on a legislative proposal with a message part that will be submitted to the Stortinget in spring 2011. Here we are looking at the possibility of reaction determination that works better against the youngest lawbreakers. But also in this context, we will have the opportunity to discuss child and youth crime in a broader perspective, since we are going to have a message part about this. I believe that many of the proposals discussed in this debate and in the proposal will be relevant when we work through this. Then I have always said, from this pulpit too many times, that I believe that the work done locally now, through the cooperation of the SLT – but I also want to mention the police councils – is absolutely crucial. That is why, among other things: have granted incentives to SLT, but it is not that we consider it appropriate to make this work compulsory. There's the same reason that the Christian People's Party has. It is gratifying to see that even if schemes are not made compulsory, the municipalities are appreciating it. And as far as the police councils are concerned, after the beginning of 2007, there are police councils in about 300 municipalities. It is an unusually important instrument. We discussed organized crime before dinner break. Police councils can be used there, but when it comes to action against children and young people, I can see no more suitable forum than to take it in a police council – where senior municipal officials and policy representatives, along with the police, can work out new measures locally. Then I also refer to the Crime Prevention Action Plan Good Forces, with 35 measures for increased security, which was launched last August. Several measures are precisely about how to develop the SLT model and police councils and how to prevent them better. So I would also like to say that in the case of the armaments of school students, who have been up in the debate, consent-based armaments of school students are already allowed, and there must be a voluntary and informed consent of the student covering all aspects of the teaspoon. Each school that will carry out armaments must ensure that it has a good system to ensure that it is properly equipped. And the idea of expelling children from the center is actually realized. Then I also refer to the same action plan Good Forces, where, in particular, under point 4.2.3. it is clarified that the prosecution authority may impose a residence ban on children under 15 years of age at specified locations. It is now legal, together with other measures against child and youth crime, in a new section 222(c) of the Criminal Procedures Act. So we're on our way, but we have a lot of good ideas that we can take with us further in the work to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2154	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2157	Prevention is unusually important in preventing young people from committing crime. And when they do that first, it's important that we grab them and get them on the right track. In this case, the opposition with the Progress Party and the Right has promoted 16 good, constructive proposals, all of which are supported by the Party of the Council of State and the partners. It is clear that government parties who constantly vote on good proposals – for example. proposal No 3 that each school should have its police contact, which is not difficult to get into, but which is important to get in place — making the government seem very less offensive in chiselling out a preventive policy. Does the Council agree that the government parties could have voted in favour of many of these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2166	I believe that prevention work at all times is so important that it should be allowed for the government to say that this should be seen in a complete way in relation to the work done. But it is interesting that local police contact is a special feature. It has not been long since I was criticized in this Chamber by the Progress Party for prioritising the police to everything. So now we've said that we're going to the Storting with a billing bill with a message part, where we want to look at measures coordinated. We have also announced that, in the interests of the police, we are making a performance reform, which points to the priorities that the Norwegian police must take. I think that is a good argument for not saying yes to proposals on every occasion – more or less good ones – that had to come up in terms of the disposal of police resources. That is one of the reasons why we want to see that proposal in conjunction with some other proposals. I think that the time now is primarily in the minds of real primary prevention, and there are very much other actors than the police that have to do. Our major challenge now is actually to get other actors on the road in terms of prevention. In the case of organised crime, we were concerned with the role of the municipality, the role of child protection in this matter, and not least the role that schools can play.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2173	I agree that we should take a closer look at the priorities of the Norwegian police. I think that's what I'm going to do, and I'm meeting the assessments and priorities that the Council of State wants to present to the Biggest in this context. We'll see when it comes. But it is clear that a proposal such as proposal No. 3 here is not a very resource-intensive proposal. It is about students, teachers and parents having contacts that they know they can contact in cases they need. Does the Council of State agree that many of the proposals – if not all – that the opposition has put forward here are proposals that will have a preventive effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2180	We have given our answers to these proposals. Not everyone can be treated together. I have approached some of them and said that the police actually have access to grips both in terms of russ control and also in relation to the restraining order. So some of them are already adopted. I believe that the discussion on prevention is so important that I do not think it is right to say that none of these proposals are good. We want to see this in the context of the prevention of childhood and juvenile delinquency, namely when we get to the Spring Stortinget with both a proposition, i.e. legislative proposals, and a reporting part.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2185	I would like to make a comment on why the government will not take the initiative this time to draft national doping legislation. I mean not the criminalisation of doping, but a preventive doping legislation such as: is about testing in training studios, where we know that a lot of doping is going on. Those who own them want, among other things, it shall be possible to refuse access to their private premises to people using doping materials. We've looked at how more and more young boys are struggling with the use of doping. We know that this can lead to an increase in violence. What is the reason why we are now opposed to national doping legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2192	The main question that has been raised in the area of doping is the question of criminalisation of use. I expect the representative André Oktay Dahl to be familiar with the process of criminal law. As regards both criminal law and, where appropriate, the control regime, these measures need to be seen in the context of child and youth criminality and the prevention of childhood and juvenile delinquency. In this context, I actually believe that there are other things I would have chosen to give priority to if, for example. the control regime, other than that proposal. For example: the ability of the police to control both spaces and people is a matter of priority. I mean, as I said in the previous line, we have to be able to do that in a context. I also think the interpellant has been one of those who have criticised that you correspond to everything. I believe that then you have to bear that sometimes it is also said no.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2200	So we're talking about the replicator. The replicator has asked for another line and is given the opportunity to prove it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2203	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2208	The point is, it's not the criminal law I'm talking about. Antidoping Norway has made proposals for preventive anti-doping legislation. It's something completely different. But what I'm going to ask questions about now is this with rusting. I had a couple of years ago on behalf of the Right an interpellation about consent-based armaments, and then there was some of the worst government council almost heard. Then there were fundamental counter-conceptions, and there were no limits to what privacy considerations it traveled – and now everything is fine! Then I wonder, is there another type of armament that is going on in school now than what we proposed? It was based on the regime that was established at Brundalen secondary school in South Trondelag, which so practiced it with luck, and had to end it. Then you were totally opposed to giving them the opportunity to do that. Something has obviously happened, and I wonder what the difference is now in relation to two years ago when it was basically a great resistance to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2215	Now it is given by the representative André Oktay Dahl a description of my statements two years ago that I am not quite sure if I can share. As I said in my post, on the question of consent-based armaments for school students, it is already allowed. But it is important that there is voluntary and informed consent from the student, which covers all aspects of the tea stop. It's clear here we're facing borderline moves that you have to be very observant of not slipping into an area and a testing regime that would actually hit children and young people in the long run. We have to try to avoid that. I believe that the system that we have today is fully adequate against the legal guarantees that we want to apply in this society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2222	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2227	I'm sorry to extend what the council called a long day. This is an important discussion. I was just thinking of contributing some reflections maybe a little on the side of the representative proposal, but nevertheless very relevant, I believe. I grew up in what is the Children's and Youth Municipality of the Year, Trondheim, and like many of my age, I remember the way prevention was done in the 1990s in cities around the country. It had a lot of different expressions. Some expressions made more impressions on me than others, and the police were alternately happy to catch our attention in the fight against alcohol, illegal drugs and other undesirable behaviour and activity. I may especially remember a session at high school with Konstablenes Maggaband. It was a police band that performed sounds with upbuilding lyrics. They became a hit in Trondheim in the 1990s. That cassette is still in circulation and is very popular among people my age. I'm not saying this either to trace off or to in any way ridicule the police's efforts in my growth, but on the contrary to make a slightly different point. A few weeks after one of these visits from the police in high school, I begged my parents to participate in this year's nightclub at ISAK, which is the cultural centre in Trondheim. I didn't see that as preventive work at all. Neither did I when I attended a theater group called Caramba, which set up a performance funded by the municipality as part of the municipality's preventive work. For me, this was a play that I participated in. My point with these depressions is that prevention work aimed at youth is perhaps the most effective when young people perceive it as something else or something more than preventive work, that it is perceived as something meaningful, which gives them the sense of mastery, which makes them either feel like pop stars for a few hours, or that they feel that they contribute to society with something very useful that they otherwise cannot contribute to. There is a dimension that I thought was almost completely missing in the setting. Prevention was reduced to a little static and a nice concept, but empty of the qualitative content that is so important for prevention to work. I think I can claim, without many disagree with me, that some of the most important prevention work going on in the country is being carried out in sports clubs, and perhaps especially in cultural institutions. It is important not to forget when we are constantly discussing new prohibitions and legal texts.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2240	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 631]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2258	In the descriptive text of the interpellation, I refer to a study by TNS Gallup that shows that as many as 200,000 Norwegians are or have been hit by ID theft. There is an indication that this problem is major, and that many are in a situation where they experience uncertainties as a result. ID theft has increased due to the emergence of the Internet in particular. Trade and social interaction are increasingly digital in society today. This is positive. This has many advantages. But the case here about ID theft also shows that that development has very much shadow pages. It has an economic and technological side in that ID theft and misuse of technological opportunities create uncertainty for the digital economic transactions. It shows that the technology itself can be misused to the detriment of both traders and individuals. What is the background for this interpellation, however, is probably the personal or human side of experiencing ID theft. It leads to the uncertainty of the one being affected, by the fact that his or her identity can be abused in virtual spaces and in social media and provide a mildly false representation of that person, who may be able to follow this man, woman or youth in the worst case for the rest of his life. It also has a human side to being economically exploitable, subject to fraud, while also having formal consequences in terms of credit rating and criminal offences by the person who has stolen the identity. If we are to meet this challenge, we must take action at many levels. The right notes with pleasure that the government has recently proposed amendments to the penal code 1902 § 190a, where ID theft is made punishable by an updated wording in the proposal for changes to the criminal law. I want to do that from the right-hand side, and I guess that's not very surprising, saying that we're putting ourselves in a positive position. But, as I said, we are going to meet the challenges of ID theft, we also have to meet them in areas other than purely legal and formal ones. We have to meet them with measures that make personal responsibility visible, we have to meet them with measures that make industry responsible, and not least we have to have a clear understanding of where the authorities' responsibility lies, so that this does not just become a matter for the Right on the criminal framework. It's also a matter of raising awareness, of how we're going to prevent this in the time that's coming. It's about raising awareness of each of us who use the technology in everyday life. It is about establishing accepted standards for electronic identification — in short, it is difficult to steal the identity of others. Therefore, my interaction with the following question is summarised: How does the Council of State assess the situation, and what action does the Council of State intend to take to limit and prevent ID theft?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2275	Thanks for the interpellation. It's affordable, because identity theft has to be taken more and more seriously. It is the theft that consists of the collection, possession, transfer, reproduction or other manipulation of the personal information of another person with the intention of damaging the reputation of others, committing fraud or other criminal activity. There's too much undesirable behavior behind it. Those who are exposed to this will often experience discomfort for a long time after the injury because the unauthorised have abused, and may still be in possession of, person-sensitive information. ID violations may include very different types of criminal offences, as pointed out by the representative, Ship, and there is no clear definition or delineation of the concept, either nationally or internationally. This also makes it difficult to measure with great precision the extent of this. In April, the State Institute for Consumer Research identified data on ID thefts in Norway. The investigation also referred to the study that was commissioned by the ID-theft project of NorSIS, which showed that 5.4 pst. by those who were interviewed by the phone had been exposed to ID thefts. It was TNS Gallup who stood for the interviews. Studies from the United States, Canada and Denmark also appear to indicate a significant extent of ID thefts. National and international actors working with ID thefts seem to agree that the problem is increasing. This was also taken into account in the National Cybersecurity Strategy of the National Safety Authority on 21 December 2009. That's why we've focused on it. Different forms of ID thefts will require different kinds of action. For example, misuse of the identity of others in order to avoid a criminal offence must be controlled by means other than when sensitive personal data are stolen by targeted attacks on electronic databases. The actor(s) closest to limiting the loss or damage caused by ID theft also has the primary responsibility to follow up on action. We can't let go of that. Operational responsibility for the control of ID thefts lies in the underlying offices of the departments concerned and with key business actors, such as: trade associations, and in particular in the establishments issuing identification documents, such as: the banking sector. Among the most important measures to prevent ID thefts is to ensure the creation of secure identity documents. There is a broad international consensus that the use of biometric data is necessary to obtain ID documents that are sufficiently safe from misuse. The government has taken this recognition seriously. On 19 June 2009, the Government’s proposal for the electronic storage of biometric personal data in passports was sanctioned. The change in the law, which immediately entered into force, allowed the electronic storage of fingerprints – two fingers – in the passport document. From earlier on, we have stored digitized facial images in the passports. These amendments cover all new passports applied for from 6 April 2010. Biometry is thus an important instrument to ensure ID. As part of the work on new criminal law, a new criminal order, Section 202, was adopted in 2009, on identity impairment, which was also discussed by the representative, Werp. This is a provision that has a two-year penalty framework and has a broad impact on identity impairments. I will not go into it further, but I find reason to point out that, in order to be as effective as possible in the fight against ID violations, we proposed on 5 November that, pending the entry into force of the new penal code, the introduction of this penal code should be accelerated by including it in the applicable criminal law as a new § 190a. The government states that the law will come into force as soon as it is sanctioned. The development of information technology has changed society and given us new ways of communicating and solving tasks. We all notice that. But with the new technology, new forms of crime also follow. Traditional crime is being committed using the new technology, but the new technology itself has also become a source of new forms of crime – one of the reasons why we have chosen by the Workers' Party to go in to give the police access to traffic data storage. Each of us must take personal responsibility for preventing ID thefts and misuse of our own identity, among other things. by failing to disclose personal data to unknowns and to keep sensitive data in a secure manner. The government sees it as a central part of the prevention of ID thefts to stimulate individuals to develop healthy online attitudes. That's why I joined the opening of the website id theft.info on 17 June 2009, which has a navigation test that I recommend everyone to go on. It was a thought-provoking experience. Take care of the mailbox, take care of the trash box – at least everyday features that can protect us from ID thefts, and as I think it is absolutely vital that people remember. The website is part of the ID-theft project, led by NorSIS, the Norwegian Information Security Centre, and receives support from both the Public, Police and Ecocrime Directorates, and from key business actors. The government is currently working on a bill for the Storting on national ID cards. The ID card will complement the new biometric passports and the card shall contain biometric data in the form of digitised facial images and fingerprints. The card will also contain an electronic ID that can be used for secure communications between the user and public authorities on the Internet. As part of the post-control of the Data Protection Act, in July 2009, the government sent a hearing, inter alia: a report on birth numbers, fingerprints and other uses of biometrics in connection with the processing of personal data law § 12. One of the proposals in the report on which the government has asked for feedback is an explicit prohibition on using the birth number alone for so-called authentication — verification of a person’s identity. In further work on post-control, the government will decide whether Section 12 of the Personal Information Act should be amended in accordance with this proposal. ID thefts and ID fraud are largely committed using modern ICT technology, and the Internet itself is responsible for this type of crime. We must expect an ever-increasing share of this type of action to be carried out electronically in the future. At the same time, we have a responsibility to ensure that police and prosecution authorities have the necessary tools to combat this crime. I am thinking in particular of the implementation of the EU Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law. For an effective investigation of I.D. fraud and I.D. thefts on the Internet, researchers must be guaranteed access to the identification of IP addresses used for carrying out the criminal offence. Today, Internet providers store this information for a maximum of three weeks. Researchers find that such a short storage period is too short. This is particularly obvious in cases where they receive notification of the ratio only after three weeks. I would like to refer here to the investigation into civil engineer Svein Willassen, who was ordered by the Data Protection Authority as part of the consultation on government proposals for implementing the Data Storage Directive. The investigation highlights the access of investigators to the identification of IP addresses that are crucial only in some cases where the perpetrator conceals his identity when using the Internet in the conduct of crime. Access to the identification of user data is essential in the cases involved and the privacy considerations of this type of identification are small. The problem of ID thefts is also an important aspect of the work on cybersecurity in Norway. On 18 January of this year, the Minister of Defence and I received the proposal for a national strategy on network security from the National Security Authority. The main objective of the strategy is to build and secure critical ICT systems and actively avert and investigate events. Action No of the strategy 17 is to ensure the necessary storage of data. It has been suggested that investigations of this type of crime require such data and that premature deletion will inhibit effective investigation. The need for data storage is also underlined in previous public investigations, namely the Vulnerability Committee, the Police Methodology Committee and the Methodological Control Committee. This interpellation raises unusually important questions related to combating an increasing evil, which burden many individuals a lot, and, as the interpellant says, which can hang with you for many, many years to come. There is every reason to step up efforts to do this and to make it as broad as possible, not least that we, each individual, and also in politics and in public, are taking action that can help us to do what we can to prevent IDs about us from drifting away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2309	Earlier today, we had a case about organized crime, which led to a good debate in this room. In many ways, there is a high level of transfer value from the debate to the issue of ID theft and ICT security, or cybersecurity. This is a type of advanced and often organised crime, with the aim of acquiring valuable information or obtaining financial benefits through illegal means. I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State outlines a broad approach to this important issue, ranging from overall structural measures to personal responsibility. That's the same angle of incidence and the same perspective that we're also going to use from the right-hand side. Nor did the Council of State fail to address the importance of the Data Storage Directive this time, and it goes without saying that it remains to be seen what the government's conclusions are when we come to it, so that we can also debate that side of the Chamber here when the time is right. I also note with satisfaction that the Council of State came into view a safety dimension which is quite new, this with cybersecurity and NSM, which has overall responsibility for it in Norway, and the work that lies there. There is now a plan of action or strategy in preparation, or what will be the name of it, which the Stortinget will well be presented. My question to the Council of State is: What is the timetable for the Storting getting a comprehensive plan or strategy on the table that takes into account the boundaries of cybersecurity or ICT security with a societal perspective in mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2320	It is true that I am not going to allow the opportunity to comment on the Data Storage Directive, to store traffic data and the excellence of the Data Storage Directive in the fight against crime. But I am fully aware that here the opinions are divided, and that there are privacy considerations against the Data Storage Directive – I just underline it. It is, however, useful sometimes in the debate when we discuss actions against organized crime, assault images, and now also ID thefts, to see what kind of role it actually plays, so that you have to bring it with you, and I see most of all right to be on the path of actually going into the case, without concluding too early. With regard to this aspect, it is quite clear that it is possible for the police to have access to e.g. a court order. checking IP addresses is crucial to a part of this crime. And I think that's important. So a little bit back to the question. So we have received a report from the NSM on a cybersecurity strategy. It is not yet time for this to go through the government apparatus, and what kind of work this is going to take, so I can't say anything about it now. But here are several departments that need to enter. It's the Ministry of Justice, it's the Ministry of Defence and maybe also the Ministry of Transport, which is responsible for telecommunications. What's my concern here and one of the reasons I was active in ordering this report is that I believe this is one of the social sectors, and to the extent that the critical infrastructure, which now needs protection. So I'm going to do what I can to ensure that we get back – preferably in an appropriate form here in Stortinget – with measures related to the proposals submitted as soon as possible. It is said that both in the case of ID theft and the unauthorised involvement in large-scale ICT systems, there is an absolute risk of major losses. This applies not only to ID theft, but also to other types of critical infrastructure that can be paralysed. That is why I have been eager to get the work done. This is a public report that Stortinget, as well as the representatives, can go into. And to the extent that some of the proposals that are there are obvious, I will not rule out that they can also be implemented until you come up with an overall plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2333	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising a very important issue. ID theft is crime – crime that can have a major negative impact on it and that must be combated as other criminal acts. But I.D. theft also challenges us in other ways, and I want to bring out two things in particular. First, ID theft is a serious violation of privacy. It's hard to imagine something more intrusive in private life, something more disturbing, than that someone else pretends to be you. Not only does he have access to personal data, he or she actively abuses it. Secondly, the ID-twenty exploits normal expectations of trust and credibility in society. It is a characteristic of well-functioning democratic societies that people trust each other and the institutions of society. We cannot, will or should not replace this trust with control. It will create an unbearable society. I drew my attention to the fact that investigation and punishment cannot be our only answer to this challenge. Although an important part of the work needs to be done in the justice sector, much of the responsibility lies elsewhere. Data protection has an important role, as does all who handle personal data. However, each of us must also take responsibility. These include: that we do not provide personal information on the phone, that we ensure that we keep passwords for ourselves, and that we are alert to signals that something is not as it should be. All persons managing personal data in public, private enterprises and in the voluntary sector must handle them in a way that ensures compliance with the Data Protection Act. Unfortunately, the checks carried out by the Data Protection Authority show extensive breaches of legislation in areas such as information security and deletion. This seems to be a general problem, but smaller businesses and small municipalities have some special challenges. In addition to exercising control, the Data Protection Authority has another important purpose: to ensure increased awareness of privacy. Since 2005, the budget of the Data Protection Authority has been increased by 45 p.m. and supervision has been actively involved in the prevention of ID theft. An example of this is the work of a self-test for ID theft on the Data Protection Authority’s websites. I have followed the Minister of Justice's call and taken the test. My score was 58 pst., and I have taken action.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2344	The interpellation on ID thefts promoted by the representative, Werp, raises a very interesting debate, because it shows what a tearing social development we have had in the last 20 to 25 years. 25 years ago, we didn't have mobile phones, most of us didn't have computers at home, we didn't have access to the Internet, we didn't pay bills electronically, we didn't have cards to get into the Stortinget or other workplaces, and it wasn't electronic tolls. So this shows what has been going on. And I think the vast majority of this is a development that we all want. I remember when I got my first bank book, which I had a long time. Then I had to go to the bank and deliver NOK 100 over the counter, and then the bank staff, who otherwise knew my family three generations back and was sure who I was, put the amount by hand and put a stamp of NOK 100 in the book. Now I don't think I've been in a bankroom for years. This shows the evolution we've had. So we're left with electronic tracks all over the place. And it has created a brand new crime arena – a type of crime that has major consequences for those affected. In addition, this also provides opportunities for large gains for those who want to commit crime in this area, and it is a type of boundless crime. So today, a person can put electronic tracks around the world by just sitting in an office here at Stortinget, by buying things online, making payments, etc. Therefore, these matters can also be challenging to investigate for the police. It takes a lot of resources. This was well established by the Justice Committee when we visited Ecokrim earlier this year. Electronic tracks can also be easy to erase, so it can be difficult to find out where the source is. This can put social security at great risk. Today, there are, among other things, our entire banking system based on the electronic system, and it's probably going to be little more than that before these systems can be out of play. I sent a written question before the weekend to the Minister of Justice, which I assume he has not yet answered. It has recently appeared in the media that there are 140 000 passports that have disappeared in six years – there are quite a number of passports in one year. What happens to the passports, and what is the position of the Norwegian authorities in following it up? Another point is: What does the public contribute to limiting the possibility of committing identity theft? After all, we have the annual debate with the tax lists, where financial information on each individual citizen is posted online – available to everyone. Fortunately, more public services are coming online. But what does it do public to limit the possibilities of picking up and getting information that each of us puts out? I think the Minister of Justice could say a lot about that, because this is about both the public and each of us having to have an active attitude on how to limit this. And then we need a big personal protection fight in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2363	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing this matter and thus contributing to the attention of the question of ID theft, which is one of the world's most growing forms of crime. Just as it is very unpleasant to think that someone has been inside your home in connection with an invasion, it is also very unpleasant that others should go around and go out to be you. I myself have been exposed to something I should not refer to as an ID theft, but the feeling was a bit the same: in my early political career I had a name brother on the Jären who was eager to write a reader's letter in the local way. He was engaged in the Progress Party. It was an unpleasant feeling sometimes. It was hard to know who was me, and who was he. He's innocent in this. He was older than me, so to the extent that someone should be accused of stealing, it had to be me. In the case of ID theft, government and accumulation may facilitate the fact that it is more difficult to steal the identity of others. One may contribute to better ensuring technological identification solutions, such as: on the Internet, and one can investigate and punish ID theft effectively. But I still think that the best way to fight this is to raise awareness of each of us. We take many precautions against, for example. break-in everyday life, but our personal information is not good enough to take care of. It is obvious when you see that 200,000 Norwegians have been exposed to this. But I also want to highlight the value of a society where it's allowed to be a little naive. I don't want a society where we're going to have a padlock on our mailbox, or a padlock on our trash can. I want a society where we can communicate freely. The challenge is that the sum of available information is strongly growing. The Internet has a lot of the blame for this: it makes it easier to obtain and systematize information about each of us. The Council of State was unable to do so; it had to involve the EU Data Storage Directive in this matter. I also believe that the EU Data Storage Directive is relevant in this matter, but I have a different conclusion. I believe that a large-scale public collection of where we move and who we communicate with, in the same way as in an ID theft, challenges our right to have a private life. We may not be able to impose this storage in Norway. We cannot give absolute guarantees that this collected information cannot be misused. It is not a question of whether it will be abused, but of when and to what extent it will be abused. I also notice that the Council of State withdraws offences which I cannot understand but must be under the criminal framework set by the Workers' Party in its decision for the use of traffic data. Yes, it is unpleasant to have a name brother in the Progress Party, but it is also very unpleasant to imagine that all my communication and all my movements will be stored by the state. It is also very unpleasant – if you base the government’s draft consultation – that very small telephone companies with a few employees should handle this information. So the fight against ID theft cannot be combated with more control and storage. What we need is a discussion about how we can get better eraser routines so that the tracks we leave, for example. online, do not stay standing forever.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2379	I would like to thank you for the nice feedback on the topic of the interpellation. The representatives of Haugli and Pollestad were involved in one of the same two, that of course investigation and punishment in itself do not solve the challenges of ID theft, but that much of the awareness of personal responsibility also needs to be built up – even on the part of the system, privacy needs to be taken into account. We fully agree with that. So to the representative of Kielland Asmyhr, who is still a young man, but who could still give us a historical look back over the last 20-25 years – to the extent that a well-described reflection that I also seem to illustrate the matter. Because if we describe this development for 20 to 25 years, we can say with great certainty that the rate of change will only increase in relation to the return of Kielland Asmyhr, which in turn underlines the importance of the raising of awareness that several representatives have been involved, only becoming more important. At the same time, we must not forget the responsibility of the authorities to meet this issue. We could in the extension of what has been said here on the platform in this interpellation debate, also spent a lot of time, and brought into the debate, the publication of the importance of tax lists in this in a criminal context. How safe is the critical infrastructure in Norway in relation to targeted attacks? So there's a tension in the discussion, with the origins of ID theft, which is pretty big, and which shows that this is a matter of many dimensions. My personal opinion is that this is probably just the beginning of a big debate that Stortinget will meet in many facets of the time to come. At any rate, from the Right, we will continue to work on the topic and put it into a context that allows us to lift this up in such a way that it creates greater security in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2392	Finally, a few words about what has been left in the debate – first and foremost about the Data Storage Directive. I believe that we have an independent national interest regardless of the directive against being able to store traffic data – absolutely crucial. I'm not describing it as the representative Pollestad does, as a public collection of data. The hearing notes show that it is precisely the commercial operators who are still to be stored, but that they are not stored with regard to invoices and complaints. But you have a duty to store because the police may need it in some contexts. When the representative Pollestad says a little rhetorically that very few telephone companies are going to store a lot of data and ask about what kind of security we have around it, the situation today is that these data are being stored. You make it look like this is something new. So you store it for invoice and complaint purposes. Indeed, according to the government consultation note and the debate on the directive, on the storage of traffic data and the introduction of an obligation, mechanisms to ensure the privacy considerations that are not the same today will be available. In this respect, new legislation will help to strengthen privacy, inter alia. in the matter of deletion, inter alia: in the question of how the police are to deal with it when the police are allowed to have access to it – because it is not the police or the public who are to sit on this data – or what kind of rules and thresholds you should have for the police to have access to it. There, the representative Pollestad mentions one element, and that is the question of what kind of criminal framework should qualify for transparency in this. That, I think, is mentioned in the consultation note, that it is clear that a penalty framework is needed to raise the threshold in relation to today. But there we have the possibility of in special crimes where we are totally dependent on traffic data, for example. ID-theft, that the new provision of the penal code of 1902, i.e. § 190, can be described in particular, so that in those cases one has the opportunity to gain insight. You just have to have it if you're going to be able to investigate this kind of thing. I believe it is privacy-friendly that you can investigate crimes related to the I.D. and that it will strengthen privacy. It shows to my knowledge that there is no black-and-white in this debate. So I'm going to end by saying what many people have been talking about: we need, of course, the mobilisation of the personal responsibility associated with our identity and the data we're surrounding. It's just to look at what our kids and what we do on the Internet, what kind of pages we visit, what kind of activities are, and what we spend -- how important it is to have consciousness around it. In the case of passports, it's true that there's going to be thousands of passports gone. But it is primarily because the owner has lost them or sold them away after having been given the passport. I think it's 25 000 that have disappeared in the last few years, while there are 250 pieces that disappear in the post office. It shows that it is a great deal of personal responsibility to take care of just as important documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2407	So the debate is on case No. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2413	We're ready to go to voting. Statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on important EU and EEA matters in case No. 1 has already been adopted for consideration in a later meeting. In Case No: 2 and 3 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2951	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e2961	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e3131	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e3141	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e3149	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by André Oktay Dahl, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for new provisions in the Criminal Code that set out ‘undermining of the institution of asylum’ as its own criminal act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e3173	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to explain whether the downward adjustment of the level of penalties for some drug offences poses challenges related to sending asylum seekers who commit this type of crime more quickly, and to promote any proposals to remedy this. In parallel, the investigation is requested whether the penal code should be amended and that the use of the asylum institution should be regarded as a criminal aggravating factor under criminal law.» The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e3208	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–7, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right. There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish its own departments for foreign nationals who are linked to organised crime and who are in custody or are sentenced to a judgment in Norwegian prisons.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e3225	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–3 and 5-7, from the Party of Progress and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a comprehensive strategy to combat organised crime involving relevant departments in commitment cooperation.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a permanent working group in the Ministry of Justice and Police, which has as one of its tasks the task of facilitating better judicial cooperation with the EU. Reconciliation, exchange of information, issues related to common challenges related to organised crime and travelling criminals are areas for the task force.’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a review of the appropriateness of the law to meet the broad and heavy challenges faced by organised crime in Norway. Including how enforcement of expulsion decisions is to be implemented more effectively, and the law on better information protection and protection of police informants.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a strategy to prevent the recruitment of young people into criminal environments and gangs.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an indicative action plan with concrete actions for municipalities facing organised crime challenges. The action plan should address the whole spectrum of local policy instruments in the fight against organised crime.’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asked to follow up the critical findings of the Riksrevisions Document 3:10 [[2009-2010]] The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e3286	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by André Oktay Dahl, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to immediately move foreign criminals from Halden prison to other reconciliation institutions and to place Norwegian prisoners in prison.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e3310	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 3 from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the revised national budget, to report on progress in the organisation of its own prisons or prison departments for foreign prisoners. The size required this work to be intensified.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that adequate and accessible statistics are produced to identify the types of crime committed by foreign criminals at all times.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e3332	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is immediately asked to provide for measures to ensure that violence against staff members in criminal matters is declared in the pact with the conditions laid down in the law.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e3365	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–16, from Åse Michaelsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 7. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the establishment of binding SLT cooperation in all municipalities. In particular, the Government is asked to intensify efforts to clarify and remedy the practice of the Code of Confidentiality, which often contributes to the lack of interaction and prevention to the detriment of the children and young people.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the implementation of consent-based armaments at schools directed by health professionals. The decision to revoke shall be based on a presumption of privacy and the integrity of the individual.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e3389	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6 and 8–16. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that appropriate measurement criteria for police, criminal, etc. are investigated.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate the individual school’s own police contact.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the compensation rates for the liability of parents for the damage caused by children under the Claims Act.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to submit a case concerning the establishment of a mandatory conflict resolution offer in all cases involving children under 15 years of age.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate mentoring for criminal children even under the criminal lavaliser.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a critical review of whether the public service and ancillary services are at all adapted to younger boys in different grey zones, especially with a focus on boys with a minority background.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to contribute to a greater deportation of children and young people under the age of 18 from central areas.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that national preventive doping legislation is designed.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in setting up grant schemes for the use of local enterprises that will cooperate with child protection to provide employment training, skills development and a work community for children’s protection children and young people who have committed crime in the past.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a specific and comprehensive strategy to combat the abuse of khat in some minority groups.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for greater use to be made of the Council of Conflict and non-governmental organisations, such as brokers that can contribute to a lower level of conflict and the prevention of violence.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more specific measures to be put in place for children and young people with drug problems, in order to avoid young people being treated with older addicts.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess whether drug trafficking targeting younger people, or at schools and sports facilities, should be penalised more severely than at present.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to ensure that child protection institutions implement a consistent zero tolerance against the use of drugs.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e3487	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-11-16.ana.ud518e3585	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
