ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e26	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e29	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Waksdal, Per Roar Bredvold, Torgeir Tjäldal and myself, I have the pleasure of proposing a statutory, fully-fledged net pay system for seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e34	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e37	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I propose to allow the sale of locally produced alcohol directly from the producer and to allow the mention of alcoholic products on the producers' websites.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e42	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e64	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Magnhild Melting Authority Kleppa State Council Tora Aasland State Council Lisbeth Berg-Hansen The councils are there, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. - No one's getting up. We'll start with the first main questions from Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e83	It is nice that the government council Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa finally comes to Stortinget's oral question time. The last time was, as far as I can recall, November 11. Since then, one might say that we have had quite major challenges in terms of infrastructure across large parts of the country. We have had major problems with the railway infrastructure – trains that have not gone, light signals that have not worked – and other infrastructure with which there have been major problems on the railway side. We have also had major problems with air traffic in recent times, which remained silent due to ash clouds over large parts of both Norway and Northern Europe, and where there is still much to be done. In addition, we have had a pretty tough winter on the road, with great challenges. This means that a road network that has been due for a long, long time because of a lack of maintenance will still be due, and it will become even more mature than expected. Now, together with the Prime Minister, the Council of State has been very clear and said that it wants to increase the appropriations for the railway sector. Of course, we are very happy about that. But despite the government and the Council of State having boasted unrelentingly from this pulpit of how good the red-green government has been in the previous years and from what to do in the next ten years, the road director has said that the decay on the road network will continue to increase despite the so-called huge and growing investment. I would like to challenge the Council of State: What action will the Council of State take to prevent the increase in road network dues from continuing? Will the Council also ensure that the roads receive additional appropriations in the context of the revised budget and the State budget for 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e94	I share the representative Hoksrud's description when it comes to road maintenance. There's a big lag to go again. Luckily, it has increased the permissions until the last few years. It is also the case that county councils have increased their maintenance on the part of the road network that they have now covered. There are several aspects that you need to look at in order to get the most maintenance possible for your money. The government has recently received a report from Dovre Group, which looks at the organisation of maintenance – what has happened since road maintenance was launched. There is the fact that functional contracts still have a potential for improvement in both operations and maintenance. Dovre Group points out that the contracts could have been bigger and more standardised. There's something we're going to look at now. Dovre Group also says that the quality of maintenance has been better. We also have a national audit report that tells us that there is a need for increased attention to road maintenance. So it's not like the Minister of Transport has just focused on the way and aviation lately. It is that we also work tirelessly to strengthen road maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e103	It is good to hear that the Council of State is also concerned with the problems and challenges we face on the road, but I want to challenge the Council of State further. Operation and maintenance are also very much about road safety. We know that only in the spring have there been many accidents involving MCs, motorcycles, involved. We see that there are 43 killed so far this year, according to numbers from Safe Traffic per. March, while there were 38 killed last year. There was a happy development last year, but it now seems as if evolution is going the wrong way again. What I want to challenge the Council of State is: Does that not mean that if you carry out maintenance, if you pave the way and start doing that kind of action, you can also make sure that the number of accidents goes down? Then it's not very ambitious to build 12 km of motorway and 9 km of middle parts, which are really measures like monks in terms of road safety. Then I would like to challenge the Council of State – because she was not clear about it: Will there be increased appropriations on the road side, just as you would like on the railway side?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e112	Overall, road safety has the highest priority in the government’s work in the road sector. Several agencies have now joined the State Road Service and presented a comprehensive Road Safety Action Plan. Let's put that on. We are very pleased with the many measures that have been proposed, in fact 150, which apply both to the road with the running gear and also to the drivers. Then we have a shared responsibility there. Anyone who enters a car has a responsibility to keep speed limits, use belt, be aware. In fact, if that part were held, we could have halved the number of serious accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e117	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e120	In the newspaper yesterday we read a notice that the NSB can get a million bot – about commuters who were left on the platform, about promised passenger seats that were not delivered, and about the Ministry of Transport that threatens the NSB with a fine. When will the Ministry of Transport impose fines on the Road Directorate and the State Road Service – fines for poorly maintained roads, which increase the risk of life and health, fines for poorly maintained roads, which increase fuel consumption and increase repair costs at the car park? Norway has the worst roads in Europe. When will this government give the roads a boost?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e129	First to the NSB and the essay in the Newspaper. NSB is a company the government buys services from – NOK 1.7 billion per year. years. When they don't deliver, we're forced to think about how we're going to follow this up. There we are in a dialogue. When it comes to the State Road Service, the State Road Service also has its framework to stick to. They have very clear guidelines for how they work. There is no cure for walking, but there is a close follow-up, a close dialogue between the department and the state road network. I just have to say that so far I've learned to know both the Road Directorate and the State Road Service as well-following etaters, which are concerned with strengthening maintenance, which are concerned with realizing different projects. Now we have a lift for the road sector: NOK 322 billion in total to road, tracks, ports and fairways.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e136	Ingerd Schou - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e140	Party leader Navarsete said in the evening post on 27 April that she wanted to have Right on veto. She wants help from the Right regarding veto regarding the Data Storage Directive. Now it is well known to the Council of State that the Right will use new tools to build more roads and lanes faster. Is it so that the Council of State will have the help of the Right also to combat the Workers' Party, so that we can use Public Private Cooperation to build just more road and path? It's not supposed to be on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e145	It's good to hear that it shouldn't be on the Right, because it's been on the Right for many years when it's up to the development of our road network. It's enough to show you the previous period when they put themselves in government. That's very good. So it's like we're four months inside the new National Transport Plan, which is going to go over ten years, and that means these 322 billion kroner, which I've already talked about. For the first four years, there is now a combination of government funds and tolls, and the projects are now to be phased in in turn and in order. Then I'll take an initiative for a debate on whether we can further put in place even more means of road and rail in connection with the revision of the national transport plan. We know a pressure out to get even more projects in place. It's good to know that Right sets up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e154	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e157	We know that our bad roads are a traffic safety risk, but the biggest single factor in 2008 was that there were too many people running with alcohol in their blood. Now it has been an exciting project in Sweden. Instead of taking the right to drive from those who are taken in per mille control, a code requires an alcolock to be inserted. It is because repetition is a big problem when it comes to those who are being checked per million — many people have an alcohol problem. That's the reason. And that's the biggest single factor for the deadlocks in 2008. Now there's a report from the Road Directorate. Is this something the Council of State will also consider in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e166	The President must be allowed to point out that follow-up questions should relate to the main question. Although the question is addressed to the same expert council, it is far from the main question that was originally asked. However, the President gives the Council of State the opportunity to answer the question, if she wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e171	I would first say that if all drivers had held the speed limits, had belted and ran sober, then the number of serious traffic accidents – the number of fatalities and serious injuries – could be halved. It says something about how important this is. Seeing what we can do when it comes to avoiding running in a drug-induced state is the main priority of the Government. What is most relevant is a test scheme with an alcolock for drivers who are in a russian program. But I'm going to promise Hareide that we're going to evaluate the entire report very carefully. I'm set to see what we can follow up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e176	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e179	The questions of the left concern road safety. I hope it's relevant to the President. In January 2007, the Right and Left promoted a proposal for a representative to establish independent roadside supervision. It received support in the hall from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The government set up a selection which presented its report in February 2009, the majority of which was to establish independent roadside supervision. The report has now been out for consultation and the deadline for consultation was in August 2009. In February of this year I asked the Council of State about the progress of the decision, and the Council of State then said that she would return as soon as possible. «As quickly as possible» is a relative concept, but I would assume that «as quickly as possible» is before we split up in June in spring, is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e188	It is true that the NOU dealing with traffic control has been listening. It is also such that there are shared views among hearing authorities. This is a matter for the government to consider carefully how we should follow up, because the supervision proposed there was not comparable to supervision in the corresponding country. It's also so that there's a huge cost of getting supervision in place. The question is, should we possibly spend between 50 and 100 million dollars? for supervision, or whether we should use even more resources, for example: on road safety. What I can tell you about the progress is that the matter comes when it comes. She does not come in time for the Storting to be treated in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e195	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e198	Our roads are in bad condition. This affects road users and leads to higher transport costs and reduced accessibility, especially in districts. It should be of interest to the Center Party. For a long time, we have now seen the need to take back this great delay, which has become very clear and noticeable to road users. All parties and several governments have recognised this, but we still have a maintenance run of NOK 20 billion. To re-establish this, the Right has proposed a maintenance fund of DKK 50 billion and some other instruments such as OPS, such as the modernisation of the sector. However, the government will not listen to this, but will instead use every opportunity to boast that they are now spending more money on the road than previous governments. Yes, that's right, but then the action space has also increased significantly. Never in modern times have construction costs increased so much in so few years, either. If you really get more for the money, you're left to see. In the NTP, the government says the following: ‘The objective of creating a significantly better standard of operation and maintenance on national roads is a priority.’ Former Minister of Transport Navarsete said it would smell asphalt all over Norway. But then it says in a statement: reserves that the oil price does not increase. I would ask for a concrete response from the Council of State: does she believe that the plans currently in place are sufficient to prevent further deterioration of road standards?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e219	100 billion kr more to road, rail, ports and ferries the coming ten years: we can't have so much cost development in this country, even with the most pessimistic views from the Right, that we don't see anything back to the road and the path for those funds. We're busy taking back what we're seeing now, but we're actually talking about years of neglect when it comes to roads. That is why we have now had a review of both road maintenance and how it can be organised – what is the impact of the changes that took place in 2003. That's why we're now looking at whether we can make improvements in the different contracts. In the construction of a new E6 on Helgeland, a combination of development, operation and maintenance is being tested by the State Road Service. They're trying out smaller contracts in the West, so they can exploit local entrepreneurs even more. I have to remind you that we have actually increased the permits for maintenance from NOK 6 billion to NOK 9 billion, that we have announced a further increase, and that it smelled asphalt all over the country last year, and the representative Halleraker can actually enjoy it even in the year that we are now in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e228	It's probably not just the Right that's a little pessimistic. I stand here with the Public Road Service Action Programme for the next three and ten years. Here it's called 23 pst. the national road network is now categorised as poor and 8 pst. That's very bad. So the report goes on to say: ‘The frameworks for the operation and maintenance of the road network will not be sufficient to stop further growth in the maturity’.» This is scary reading, because it says that from 8 pst. highways with ‘very poor tyre condition’ will increase to 20 pst. in the course of four years. How does what the State Road Service points out here correspond to the answer just given by the Minister of Transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e238	First of all, we are some at one point both the State Road Administration, the Halleraker and I, I believe, and it is that there have been many years of neglect even when it concerns maintenance on the road. It is the railway that it has focused our most on this winter. But we start the year with a national audit report that tells us exactly the same thing. This means that we need to step up efforts to see if we can get even more road maintenance for the money. That's why we're going through the contract forms, and that's why we're now looking at the scope of the contracts and the experience so far. That's also because we have equipped the county councils with extra funds. We have even been told back that the county councils are now prioritizing road maintenance beyond what one could actually expect from the state budget for 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e245	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Ingerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e248	I think I'm going back to Halleraker's question, which I perceive the Council of State did not answer. It's about the plans that now exist, that they don't actually worsen, but improve the standard on the way, and that the lag is documented at NOK 20 billion. On the right, as you know, we will have both maintenance funds, we will have project funding, Public Private Cooperation on financing, overall planning and modern organisations. It seems that party leader Halvorsen is right when she says that the government lacks booze and will not use any new tools at all. Why does the Minister for Transport argue so strongly against new instruments and perhaps not consider using them in three to four years' time? But back to the question: Will the plans that are now in place be able to recover and improve conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e257	What's our ambition is to take it back, and that's to strengthen the maintenance. We know that we – literally – have a way to do it. But this has been the case for a long time, both on the road and on the railways and, to the extent that it is also on public buildings, that the maintenance has been neglected – because of this commitment and the measures I have already mentioned for Halleraker. And then I have to be allowed to say that when it comes to new tools, you can ask, what's the most important thing here? Is that a new tool? Is it more expensive? It is such that the OPS solutions that we have tried so far were not more reasonable. They weren't more expensive either. Progress was faster - that was the point. Therefore, we are now looking at how we can follow up with faster progress, because we have more money in the national transport plan than the Right had.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e264	Arne Sortevik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e267	It is good that the Right is also concerned that we need to build modern, safe and environmentally friendly roads and with new financing tools. It's necessary. The road standard in Norway is going to get worse in 2010, despite all these promises that we have heard so much about. Now that the Council of State even in the previous response refers to good and bad and expensive and less expensive financial tools, there is reason to recall that the most expensive thing is to buy the way to pay. In the last period, through 30 toll cases, the drivers in Norway purchased their way to hire – a total investment of DKK 90 billion. The drivers were forced to contribute NOK 68 billion, so thanks for the help they got an extra bill of NOK 13 billion through collection costs and building loan interest. What will the Council of State do to replace the drivers’ deliberations on the purchase of payments by government funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e274	What is the main financing of the Government's arrangement over the next ten years is government funds. Then there is a local pressure to put in place more toll projects, thus putting in place additional projects – either before or getting them funded at all. That I think is a good combination. I intend to recommend the two main forms of funding in the future. Then it may be that in some places and in some areas there are extra layers of measures that should be considered. The toll companies themselves have continued to search for the best possible use of the money on the road. There is the clear figure that tells of improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e281	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e284	I share Halleraker's concern for our roads. We have a huge maintenance run. The Road Directorate says 23 pst. Of our national roads, we have too bad a standard, and we're experiencing a decay. Is it not then natural to consider the establishment of independent roadside supervision to assess precisely these problems? This winter we have had a very great need for an independent aviation oversight. We also need an independent railway supervision. But some of the biggest challenges we have when it comes to our roads. In the NTP, the government said that this is something you want to assess, and that you want to bring a case to the Stortinget in 2010. Can the Council of State confirm this? What are her thoughts about a private, independent roadside supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e292	We must not pretend that there is currently no supervision in the road sector. On the contrary, the state road system operates at both regional and district level and follows the constitution of the various roads. There is no lack of supervision that causes maintenance to lapse. I assume that Hareide, who shares the concerns of the Storting, also assumes that when it comes to road maintenance, there are many years of neglect — including under the government he himself was part of too short a time back. What we need to clarify when it comes to independent supervision is whether we're going to use new funds here for a supervision that we don't have a complete overview of – it's not that concretely outlined – or whether we're going to spend more money directly on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e299	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e302	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries. The majority of Norwegian farming takes place in sea memoirs where feed games and excrements are directly released. Calculations based on figures from the Climate and Pollution Directorate show that Norwegian farms emit nutrient salts equivalent to sewage from 8.8 million people. Sewage emissions from Norwegian farming plants are depleted in the sea — and now correspond to emissions from nearly twice the population of Norway. In 2009 each Norwegian household paid an average of NOK 2 920 per year in the sewerage fee. The breeding industry pays nothing. Only in 2009 emissions increased by 9 pst, in line with the growth of the farming industry. Calculations show that the farming industry contributes close to 80 pst. of the man-made phosphorus inputs and more than 60 pst. of the man-made nitrogen inputs on the coastal stretch from Lindesnes to the Russian border. Excessive nutrient discharges may lead to over-fertilisation, which in turn may lead to poor water quality and reduced biodiversity. When we look at the serious conditions we have had with salmonnus, where trade unions and environmental organisations agree with the Christian People's Party that we have major challenges, we also have challenges in relation to this with sewage emissions. In view of this, my question becomes to the Council of State: How does the Council of State assess the implementation of the adopted increases in the number of farmed fish for the current year, so-called maximum authorised biomass?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e313	In order to establish aquaculture production, of course, an application for an emission permit must also be made. All farms must have an emission permit from the environmental protection authorities, and I take the view that environmental protection authorities do not grant emission permits for more nutrient salts than the environment around the site can tolerate. Of course, I also assume that the breeder is related to these permits. Then it is that for the current activity, surveys are required before a locality is put into operation and start breeding activity, but investigations may also be required in the course of production. It's done in a lot of cases. As regards future growth, it is also based on an environmentally sustainable strategy that underpins all work and developments in the aquaculture industry. I also assume that the various agencies responsible for authorising growth follow up in that area. It is the environmental protection authorities that are to grant a permit, and emissions permit, in the normal way. So there won't be any new growth without it being environmentally sustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e322	Here I feel that the Council of State does not answer my question. For one, obviously, there is no control when emissions corresponding to sewage emissions from 8.8 million people go straight into the sea. We know the conditions in Chile, with an industry that now has its back broken. Of course, we are concerned about Norwegian farming. Then I ask the Council of State if she doesn't now have enough knowledge, both in terms of the challenges we've had with the salmon problem, and the challenges we now have with sewage discharges, to say a clear refusal to increase the number of fish in cages along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e329	It's so that things are connected here. Although a breeder may be granted a new concession, a new permit for growth, the breeder and the company may not use that crop if they do not have an emission permit. One is totally dependent on having both an approved site and an emission permit to use that crop. If you don't have it, it doesn't help with new concession or new growth. Fortunately, there are also some other contexts that work for the environment. If one succeeds in producing farmed fish, one depends entirely on having a good environment. A site that may be overconsumption — to use such a word — will not be optimal in relation to the growth of the fish. So here the breeder has a genuine interest in making the best use of the premises. It also gives the best economy for the breeder.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e336	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e339	I have to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State, as a specialist council, on yesterday's negotiated solution with regard to the divider line. It must give inspiration to take greater action — and I am thinking that we are experiencing a breeding industry that is releasing food-related sewage discharges for 8.8 million people. We know that we have major challenges related to the salmonid problem, and we know that telling all salmonids will be cut off for fishing because of this problem. Nevertheless, the government is considering expanding the amount of fish in surplus, which we know is one of the main challenges attached to this issue. My question is, in view of the gravity of the situation we are currently in, can the Council of State say that this extension will not take place?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e346	Let me first thank you for the congratulations. I do not hide that it was also a great day for the Minister of Fisheries and Coast yesterday. For the theme: there is no link between the emissions that occur and the situation of the wild species. There is reference to the closure of salmon rivers, but there is nothing to do with the release of nutrients. That's another problem. As far as future growth is concerned, as I said in my previous answer, it depends on the fact that one has a sustainable location and is approved by the environmental authorities for a release. The sites that we are now seeing are located on the coast, with good ocean currents, and where there is a great deal of emphasis on not getting sediment collection under the facilities. So the emissions you have today are not considered to be problematic – at least not for the sake of the wild species.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e355	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e358	Norway exports 35 million meals of food each day to an annual value of DKK 44 billion. The world needs food. Norway can produce, and the world is willing to pay. Nevertheless, I seem to know in this room an increasing number of negative inputs to the farming industry, an industry that we have actually said we should bet on in the future, an industry that we have said will supply the nation of Norway with much of the revenue that falls away when the oil age decreases. Nevertheless, we know that we have challenges both in relation to emissions from installations, in particular that collected under installations, and in relation to salmonnus and a number of other things. And the reputation is important. But I believe that it is soon time to set up for the farming industry and say that enough is enough. Now we also have to try to reverse this negative trend and get a positive reputation. Will the Council of State at least take the initiative to draw up reports on the positive nature of the farming industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e368	I fully agree with the questioner that it is an important industry, which is crucial for many small and slightly larger coastal communities. We have an amazing product that very many people around the world really appreciate. On the issue of obtaining and obtaining reports: there are a lot of facts that have already been developed. The challenge is probably to ‘get on’, as we say. Good stories are not as simple as demanding stories. Having said that, I place great and decisive emphasis on the sustainability of Norwegian aquaculture. It is the only dangerous way for this industry to continue to play an important role — and perhaps have an even more important role in the future. I use every opportunity to both talk about what is very positive, and at the same time point out that there are some challenges that the industry needs to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e375	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e378	The Council of State put the brakes on future growth due to the environmental problem. We have been on a waiting break while the market for farmed fish around the world is at its very best, and the opportunities for Norwegian farming are very great. There are a lot of forces that work something with each other, but also something against each other, in this industry. I think what is now called for is that someone makes decisions – whether it's future growth or not growth. Now the Council of State refers in its response to the fact that it is the different levels that are going to decide this. But the political responsibility for this lies with the Council of State. My question is: When does the Council of State aim to cut through and make a decision on this? Because that's what the industry needs and demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e387	In October – just after joining as a fisheries and coastal minister – I got alarming figures related to the situation in the aquaculture industry when it came to salmonmus. There were number sizes and, not least, new knowledge of resistance build-up that was of such a nature that I found it reasonable to postpone the 5 pst. growth that was already announced. I said at the same time that before we were going to discuss that question again, I would have certainty that the situation would be controlled. Now I know that a huge amount of work has been done on the coast – at all the farming companies, in close and close cooperation with the Food Authority. Right in these days, the ‘weed release’ is during completion. I want at least the numbers, the results of it, before I decide what we do with future growth. I have also not experienced any great cry from the industry about getting that growth right now. They do have other things that they're more concerned with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e396	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e399	The Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs can only stand still, because I also have questions for her. Some of the things that perhaps most plague and annoy people most, are when we come to bureaucratic orders and permits, which in at least many ways you don't feel really messed up, and not least, are unnecessary. I would like to use an example to illustrate this in the introduction: if a fishing vessel wants to take another man's fish from e.g. Nord-Norway to Egersund – let’s take Norwegian springing herring – i.e. between two places, a management permit from the Maritime Directorate is required. If the same boat had fished this fish itself, there is no need for this permit. This must cause some frustration, irritability, but not least it makes no sense for you to have special permits to carry fish you have not fished yourself, while you have fished it yourself. This is just one example. We have examples related to the Tag Register. We have had a certain debate about what are fishing boats, and what are recreational boats. There are also a number of other examples. If a fishing boat carries fish, it shall keep a fishing logbook, even if it is not his own fish, and even if he is not on fishing. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State ensure that the legislation of the Directorate of Maritime Affairs and the Directorate of Fisheries is reviewed, at least to ensure that the most meaningless paragraphs are removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e410	The representative refers to two regulations. Of course, I do not have detailed knowledge of the one that is under the Directorate for Maritime Affairs. But I perceive that the main question is more about the overall regulatory and regulatory system to which the fishing industry and to some extent the aquaculture industry are exposed, in order to use such a concept. I have lived through a long life on the coast, both as a politician and as a nutritionist, in this world. After I became a fisheries and coastal minister, I discovered that there were some regulations that I should probably have known as fish breeders, but I was not aware of. This tells me that it makes sense with a review. So I've told the Norwegian Fisheries Team and the Norwegian Fisheries and Aquaculture Association that I want to understand the rules and regulations that they find hard to understand what is really about. I have also said the same to my offices and to my directorate to get a review, to see if there are regulations and rules that cannot be justified by the need for control – which is an important aspect in terms of resources in the traditional fishing industry – or in terms of the environment, or in other things. All the rules and regulations that do not have a good reason, I am prepared to remove.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e417	For that work I will give the Council of State honor. I hope that the work will intensify, and that the recordings that will then be made will also be followed up quickly, so that you can reduce some of the frustration levels that exist out there. But I also want the Council of State to say little about what time perspective it is, because I have also heard from other states that we need a review to reduce the form field, to reduce bureaucracy, etc. – and it goes year and day without anyone noticeing any difference at all. So I hope the Council of State can say a little bit about the time perspective. I would like at least the Council of State to answer one specific question: Does the Council of State think it makes sense that if a fishing boat approved by all authorities is to carry herring, e.g., from North Norway to Egersund, it needs its own certification as a cargo ship – i.e. a management permit – – while if it transports its own fish, does it not need it? Is it sound like a sensible arrangement to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e426	With the risk that I do not know exactly the detailed instructions well enough, I will be a little careful. But I guess it also has to do with a resource control situation. I'm a little in doubt because it's the Maritime Directorate it's being referred to. I will check that when I get back to the department, but as I said, I assume that the fish will be delivered on land by the vessel that caught it. It's about resource control and security that it won't be possible to cheat. I will check the exact explicit case. As far as time is concerned, as I said, I have challenged both the Fiskerlage – I did so at their national meeting not very long after joining – and the aquaculture industry through the meetings I have had with them. In addition, I have asked that we intensify this work in our own house, simply because I think it is important to get cleaned up for control purposes, for legitimacy and, not least, for respect for those who are going to live a life in this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e433	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Torgeir Treldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e436	I really want to continue the question of the representative Nesvik, and it's about the time perspective. The council says that you should work to get a review as early as possible. But this is a bureaucracy that is a major regret for the industry, and the industry is struggling with it. I would like to hear more specifically from the Minister: can we get this for this spring, or can we get it for the autumn? Unfortunately, what we see too often is that you say you come back, and then it goes years before you come back. This is on behalf of the industry: when can the industry expect us to have it in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e442	As I said in my previous answer, I have challenged the industry. I then assume that if they have very specific rules and regulations that they are struggling with, they can come to me with them, quickly. Then I will follow up quickly. I would also like to examine on my own initiative whether we have such rules and regulations. Then I'm dependent on getting a recording, because I'm very concerned about simplifying and streamlining regulations and regulations. It's important for the authorities to have cleanliness in it, but of course it's even more important for the industries, which have to deal with a maybe a little swirly legislation. The most important thing is that reporting and that kind of thing should be simple, it should be predictable and at all comprehensible. It is important to develop the fisheries and aquaculture industry for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e447	Frank Bakke Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e450	It may be tempting to say that the maximum permitted biomass can also be a tool that can be used in relation to bureaucracy, but with strong limits on how much biomass you can have in each office. Maybe we'll get limited regulations? We are constantly recording examples of new rules – rules with retroactive effect, and rules that are quite unpredictable – both within farming and within fisheries. Is the long-term and predictability of nutritionists important for the Council of State? And what will the Council of State do to ensure that long-term and predictability become a value also within the administration and bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e459	As a former nutritionist, I am very aware that having a predictable framework is important in planning the operation of the activity you are doing. And then there are new needs. There may be new knowledge, and not least within regulations it is a challenge. I still think we'll have a situation where you'll say there's a huge change from one year to the next, but what we're talking about here is the more of the long-term type. It has to be understandable, it has to be predictable, and it has to be that you understand why you have the rules. It is essential for the authorities and it is also important for the economic operators. And as I said, I put this on the agenda early when I came in as the Council of State, and will follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e464	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e467	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Research and Higher Education: The evening post has focused on problems that the Right has also addressed on several occasions here in Stortinget. These include increased policy governance of the field of research, new designations of research resources and reduced freedom and space of action for universities and higher education institutions and other research institutions. There is too little free resources available for research. Free resources now account for only 7 pst. by the funds distributed through the Research Council. The result is that almost 100 annual works only at the largest universities agree to write applications that are rejected. On average, eight out of ten applications are rejected. Today's application system and scarce resources create unnecessary bureaucracy and wasted time. Universities could receive more research funding directly, for example: through increased basic appropriations, as proposed by the Right. Instead, the Action Space Committee has shown that the share of free money in budgetary growth has fallen from 30 p.m. For only 5 pst. in recent years. The enormous belief of the government in political governance of society is a general problem, but in the field of research it is in a way even worse. Research is going to explore unknown terrain and give us new knowledge, and then it's not always so easy to define objectives and results and earmark money precisely for one or the other, as the government is doing more and more in government budgets. The government boasts that more money is invested in research than ever. But that's for the government's own political priorities the money goes. Almost all new funds for the higher education sector and for the research field are earmarked. Search differently, the answer the Council of State gives to the eight out of ten researchers who are being rejected today. Instead, could the Council of State consider whether it is not the Government that should give different priorities and greater freedom to researchers?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e478	It shall be difficult to obtain funding for research applications and the most attractive research funds. But I would like to stress what I have also said to the newspapers, that Norwegian researchers might need to become more strategic and exploit more funding opportunities than they do today. And it is not that there is necessarily a contradiction between the good, curiosity-driven, fundamental research and what is at all times one of the instruments for such research, namely free research project support from the Research Council. All the research is basically free, and Warloe's party, all the parties, has been here in Stortinget to accept and approve the important research programmes that lie, among other things. in the Research Communication, which is a continuation of the research programme of previous governments. Of course, research in large areas such as global challenges, such as the development of industrial activities, such as health – just to address some issues – can also have basic research in itself. It's not like all basic research, or basic research, just comes out of what's called the free resources. So here I think we've arranged for research to take place in order to get exactly the answers to some of the questions we haven't asked, while we all know that we need more knowledge in important areas. There is an artificial contrast between this, and therefore there is also an artificial contradiction, the discussion of designation or not designation, of research management or not management.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e485	I thank you for your answer. So the question was whether the government will now think about and dare to let the researchers go more freely to follow their own paths to new knowledge, instead of having to design applications that are adapted to the government's political leadership and earrings. In his reply, the Council of State said, among other things: that researchers need to become more strategic, and that is precisely the adaptation to which we from the Right are critical. Both the Government and the Council of State talk a lot about how important and good it is to bet on knowledge and research. We're going to live on this in the future, but the government seems to have very little faith that the researchers themselves know what it's smart to research, and where the important knowledge we need to acquire exists – because it's basically defined and determined in advance by the Government. It is a crossroads of thought that the most epoch-making research findings throughout history have rarely come about as a result of set plans and objectives, but in completely surprising new areas. I think the government's belief in controlling this field seems naive. Will the Council of State take initiatives to strengthen the free means of research?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e496	This Council of State and this government is constantly taking the initiative to strengthen free research as all research is free and not directed. Of course, the Council of State does not interfere with what it is going to be researched, but together with the Storting, we are facilitating the major programmes, and this is where I believe that the strategy must come in. I am thinking about strategic thinking in relation to the funding possibilities, not that you should be guided or guided in the research itself. It's not my agenda to manage research that way at all. I believe it is important to have a research based on academic freedom in the field of methodology and sub-research in the larger areas. But what I'm missing is that the management of the universities and the management of the individual research environments together with the researchers themselves think strategically to exploit the different funding possibilities. Here's a lot to pick up, even for the groundbreaking, basic research. In fact, I also know examples that basic research has come about, and the results of this have come, even for research in programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e501	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Svein Harberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e504	There is an obvious mismatch between the research community's desire for research funding and the money spent by the Government, not least in the major programmes. Most affected are universities and colleges which delivered almost 1 400 applications for free research funds last year. Only 20 pst. of these were granted. I understand that it creates discouragement in the research environments. The good thing, which perhaps the Council of State is in when she says it's going to be tight, is that it's citizens for quality of the applications that come through. Search differently, search strategically, search our programs, says the Council of State. It's control. This means that creative applications receive funds. It can't possibly guarantee quality. Is the Council of State concerned about the quality of the applications submitted to the programmes, and will it consider a change in the management of the funds in the light of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e512	Governments are not concerned about the quality of applications for the major programmes, as long as we have a quality assurance system for research applications. The Research Council constitutes such a system, and there is strict legislation to ensure the quality of applications, not only those who go to free project support, but also those who go to programmes and individual projects. As the representative knows, we need to have a review of the Research Council. We're going to have an evaluation of the Research Council. It is clear that in that evaluation we are going to review the balance of what I think may be a somewhat artificial distinction between so-called free project support and other opportunities for researchers, but it will be part of the review. I think I might be able to get the representative to think that it's actually possible to inspire and stimulate basic research, even though under headings like global challenges and health it may seem as if it's a particular subject, but that there's still room for free and fundamental research within it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e519	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e522	Once, the Norwegian Research Council was established to create a national arena, a strategic arena, to identify the best research. We know that free basic research is important to our knowledge society. We also know that to a large extent only the universities can deliver this research, this service, to the knowledge society. I think it seems that the Norwegian Research Council is largely deprived of its ability to operate with strategic approach when 93 pst. their funds are tied up in programmes, and only 7 pst. That's what you call free project resources. Then claims are made that the possibility of supporting research is increasing when the device against the government's wishes is present. But the question is: is it not that it helps to weaken the role and strategic approach of the Norwegian Research Council by as little as 7 pst? free funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e527	I would like to distance myself from the fact that it is the wish of the government that underlies the major programmes. That's the Storting's wish. It is the big business news about research that both previous governments and this government have promoted. These are based on each other, and they are very much in agreement on the great needs for knowledge. That said, we will of course review the balance between the so-called free project support and the other possible means of research relating to the Research Council. I just want to mention that we have Centers for Excellent Research. We have research centres for environmentally friendly energy. We have younger, excellent scientists. We have a number of options for research tools that go at the basic level, but that are also more applied research. Here are opportunities, I mean, that are not exploited. It's hard to believe that so many people are being denied an application for just one of the tools that is called free project support, from the Research Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e534	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e537	It's the balance that's the challenge here, because there's a paradox that there's such a big gap between what's pointed out politically – it's quite right that the Storting has been there and pointed it out – and what the researchers are actually looking for. It's a challenge. But there's also another problem that, when you start looking at the numbers, worries me. The four largest universities spend almost 100 years writing applications that are not accepted. It's the other side of time use, what actually goes into research, and not research. For me, it almost starts to look like a little parody when we spend 100 years writing applications that are not accepted. We also know that the researchers are under pressure, that they should both research, teach and also disseminate their research project into society. It's probably the last thing that's going to be most damaging. What can the Council of State do to make better use of it, so that not so many annual works are lost?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e544	I would like to remind both the representative and others who are listening that the calculations of annual works are made by a newspaper in connection with an article and not by the ministry. How many annual jobs are used to write applications, I guess, is still a question we do not have a complete dossier on. But it is an important piece of information and an important debate. My idea of this, when you ask what I can do, is to refer to what the institution's management can do, so that there is not so much wasted application time. Some of it's a good investment, because you also learn from such a process. I think everyone knows that. But it seems a lot, and it seems like there's a need for management together with the individual researchers to become more consolidated and think more strategically in-house in the discussions. So I think here is a lot of important work to do, also for the institutions internally.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e549	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e552	The sense of reality out there is quite unambiguous. All the researchers, all the institutions, describe the same problem. We know that it's also getting worse. It shows surveys, also on which the ministry puts its signature. We also know what helps. What helps to address what is described as a problem are increased basic funding, increased free resources, including: to the Research Council, and increasing the Research Fund. Everything lies there with clear means of remedying the problem that everyone is describing. Then it boils down to the fact that the Council of State won't take over the reality that's out there. It'll be, as I've said before, a little bit like a certain queen in France. When people rebelled and called for bread, the queen said, "Let them eat cake instead." What is it that the Council of States is going to take over the reality that everyone is talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e563	I'm not going to go further on bread and cakes and queens, but I think actually the representative Trine Skei Grande is now black-painting the description of reality that we have actually agreed on far on the way, through the report of the Action Space Group that the Council of State has just handed over. There it is that you realize that more money has come. Then you see that there are some challenges to how the money is spent. Some of the solutions may be on the Council of State table, some may be on the tables of universities and higher education institutions. So it's not like more money solves all of these problems. It is important, as I have also pointed out in the context of the space for action, that more room for action should be provided, too, that there is an important job to be done here for the institutions themselves, both in terms of thinking about applications, in terms of research work and in terms of the combination of research and education. All of this is of course something I am concerned about should work in the best possible way. It is not that I turn my back on those problems and do not want to see them, but I believe that the institutions themselves have a very important responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e570	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e577	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Svein Harberg to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, who is responsible for the matter. At the request of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, this question is moved and answered in response to question 6, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 4, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister of Defence, will be raised by the representative Jonni Helge Solsvik. Questions 13 and 14 from the representatives of Tor Sigbjørn Utsugnogn and Per Roar Bredvold, respectively, to the Minister of Justice, are moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before Question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e590	The first question to be answered after these changes is question 2 from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e596	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The Municipality of Trom has established a pilot project with Norwegian-Russian secondary school in Murmansk. The school is within its second year of operation, and the Norwegian students are now supported through the Loan Fund. The school offer must be seen in the light of the Northern Region bet and is an economic boost for the municipality of Trom. The school has received operational support from the Ministry for two years, and the county has recently submitted an application for the last two years of the pilot project. Will the Council of State help the school to continue to receive operational support for the project period?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e610	Let me start by saying that Murmansk School is a positive and exciting action, both for the students participating in the pilot scheme, and in the light of the government's Northern Territory Initiative. As the representative refers to, the municipality of Trom has permission to experiment under the Training Act § 1-4 to test out a scheme with a Norwegian-Russian secondary school in Murmansk. At the same time, students at school are entitled to training support from the Loan Fund from the 2009–2010 school year. This right shall apply until and including the school year 2011–2012. The restriction depends on the duration of the trial under the Training Act. In the nomination of the Church, Education and Research Committee to the 2010 budget, the Government was asked to consider continuing its support to the Murmansk School in 2010. The Ministry of Knowledge received last week's application from the County of Troms for operating aid for the two coming school years. I am happy to announce that operational support will be given to the school for the coming school years. The aid will be granted at the same level as for the current school year, in line with the application of the county municipality. Letter of positive decision in the case was sent to Trom County earlier this week. In the case of operating aid for the last year of the experiment, i.e.: school year 2011–2012, I aim to continue operating aid for this school year as well. As you know, the Ministry cannot commit funds above future budgets. I will therefore come back to the final decision regarding the disposal of the 2011 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e621	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which was very positive. Yesterday was a big day for Russia, not least for Norway. This break opens too many possibilities. At the same time, cooperation agreements on higher education were signed yesterday. We're talking about energy and environment, marine science, social sciences and language. This school in Murmansk may be particularly important to establish contacts with the recruits, those who will continue to study and benefit from the cooperation in higher education. What I want to ask the Council of State is whether, on the government side, cooperation agreements can also be envisaged at secondary school level, which goes further, and which can also ensure the operation on a more ordinary basis beyond the probationary period that the municipality of Troms has now initiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e632	There's a lot of possibilities here. After all, the whole North Sea operation and cooperation with Russia got an extra boost yesterday. The Barents Sea sharing line agreement is in place. We have the research agreement that was also signed, and many opportunities for more consensual and cross-border exchanges, which have also been a topic of the visit in the last few days. This is something that we can look at a little bit further, how we can manage to develop that contact and it further cooperated on the basis that higher education can have a value in itself, but that it can also be a starting point for something more. So I'd like to come back to that and air how we can move on with the visions of further cooperation between Norway and Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e639	Language is often a barrier to getting the student exchange we want, and until now it has turned out that the Russians have been more eager to learn Norwegian than what we might have been to make Russian a subject that sits down and has a certain prevalence in Norwegian high school. In the light of the project now under the control of Trom County Council, does the Council of State think that initiatives should be taken to lift Russian as a subject? It will require teacher competence, and it is clear that it will require some financial resources to establish the language. I am thinking in particular of Finnmark, where we now see that what happened yesterday – the dynamic that is there, and cooperation with Russia – could benefit if more Norwegian youth could get offers like this, and that perhaps Norwegian school made an effort for the Russian language.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e646	In fact, there are unlimited possibilities for thinking new and different ways of helping to increase the interest in cooperation between Norway and Russia. It is clear that Finnmark, and so far Troms, have a better starting point than most other states. Now we're going to have a message about high school. Too many students in Finnmark and Troms may be interested in developing in Russia as part of what we think about when we look at how to make high school more relevant and more motivating. So let's take that with us in the matters we are now discussing in the field of education, because I'm absolutely sure that very many students will be able to develop the interest in further cooperation with Russia and curiosity for the Russian society if we made a little more right for it, especially where you have easy contact with Russians and Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e656	‘The allies come to Narvik on 28 May to indicate that 70 years have passed since Narvik’s reconnaissance took place in the spring of 1940. This was where Nazi Germany suffered its first defeat, and for the resistance struggle in Europe, Norway and Narvik became a symbol of allied cohesion and strength. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has once again turned the thumb down for a support of SEK 200 000 for a worthy memorial. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that these markings are a national issue, and will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take on the responsibility of the nation and cover the cost of the 70-year marking?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e663	It is true that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs rejected the first general application for support from the municipality of Narvik. The mark had already been awarded a significant amount from the Ministry of Defence, which is responsible for such markings, and the application we originally received in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was deficient in the department's assessment. At the beginning of the last week, I received an enquiry from the Swedish Depositary Representative, Anna Ljunggren, that the 70th anniversary of the Narvik Battle was at risk after a rejection of the application from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we were asked to go for a round with the municipality of Narvik. We did. UD contacted the municipality and the organisers and has had a good dialogue with them. Narvik stands today, as the representative underlines, as a strong symbol that free and democratic countries can, through joint efforts, defeat totalitarian and oppressive regimes. The legacy of the Allied victor at Narvik 70 years ago has seen such a great symbolic power even today. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs attaches importance to contributing to the creation of trusting cooperation with interested countries in these northern areas through bilateral cooperation and through international organisations such as the Barents Council, the Arctic Council, the Northern Dimension and other forums. Under the Northern Region Strategy of the Government, great emphasis is placed on involving and engaging environments, not least in North Norway, in a forward-looking effort through both political and financial support for interesting initiatives. In this work, both Narvik and Nordland have important roles to play, and the 70th anniversary can inspire further efforts in the service of peace and international cooperation. At the same time, the Narvik markings are an important reminder of the historical significance of our northern part of the country, and of the importance of events related to this part of the country and the design of our national historical heritage. In view of this, there has been a new dialogue with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the wake of the request by the municipality of Narvik, in order to better clarify how it was possible for the Ministry to support this project, both professionally and financially. On this basis, and due to the dialogue, the Ministry decided to support the project with NOK 200000, as originally requested. These costs will cover the costs associated with the publication of historical material by the municipality in English and parts of the artistic framework around the event, thereby directly contributing to strengthening the profile of North Norway internationally. In conclusion, I would like to commend all those who focus on this event in Norway’s history – as the representative of Tåldal. In spreading our history and cultural heritage to new generations as well as honoring those who should be honored, this commitment is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e686	I am very pleased that the minister here has turned around and agrees to grant money. But then I have another question for the minister. Unfortunately, at the memorials that have been in the last 20 years, we haven't been represented with government people. The only thing is that the King has been there once. Now it's approx. 19 survivors on the Norwegian side and from the Allies, who meet for the 70th anniversary of the war, and perhaps the last time they were in the war, they get to remember this. I would strongly urge the Council of State to consider coming up to Narvik and take part, because I think official Norway should be included. It has been reported that, among other things: Poland is with people from the government. They did so last time, but not Norway – and this is, after all, Norway. Then I have a question to the Council of State: Will he consider setting up Narvik to be on the mark and honor those who have fought, so that we can stand in this hall?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e697	Let me first say that I had occasion with Poland's Foreign Minister in Oslo on 9 April – a symbolic date – to mark the contribution of Polish soldiers to Narvik, where about 100 lost their lives. Norway will be well represented during this memorial and, as far as I know, also with political representation. But we're going to include the request and take a closer look at travel programmes, etc. It is important that this event be dignified and respectful and illustrate the points that the representative and I agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e704	I am very happy to hear the answer, and what I registered yesterday when I was in contact was that there was no one from political leadership and so far no one from the Presidency or anyone from official Norway had been registered. Then I have to make sure that the information I get is correct. I hope the Council of State makes a request. If not the Council of State itself has the opportunity to come, there are also others in the Government and, if necessary, in the Presidency who may be able to participate in this. That is, after all, a reason why we can stand in this room – and that respect I think we should give them.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e711	It was probably a request both to the President and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I can only answer for the Foreign Minister that I will look again at how the Government has planned its presence at the marking. Then I agree that such a marking, and on this occasion, as it becomes less of a generation leaving us, should be done in a dignified and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e718	The President is sure that the Presidency will take a round on it. Let's go to questions 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e726	‘During the 2008 Spring fire, major weaknesses were revealed in the civil defence equipment that collapsed during the fire-fighting process. As a result of the fire, some 8 000 fire hoses and 442 fire pumps were removed from the stand-by, according to civil protection data. Only 1000 of the fire hoses and 10 of the fire pumps shall be replaced by new ones. If this results in correctness, this is a dramatic weakening of Norwegian fire protection. Can the Council of States confirm or cancel this information?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e733	We invite the Minister of Justice from pleasant events to water pumps and hoses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e736	Thank you, President! I am concerned that we should have a good and proper preparedness for forest fires, and that has a rug that goes beyond just fire hoses and pumps. The fire in Fromand gave us the opportunity to get that work going, among other things. through the efforts of current Minister of Finance, Sigbjørn Johnsen, in the sample that evaluated this. There were several areas where there was a need to tackle forest fire preparedness. The size has also treated St.meld. No 35 for 2008-2009 on fire safety in March this year, and I refer to the setting. The figures the representative describes regarding hoses and pumps are, as far as I have brought on the clean, correct. After the Fromand fire, it was taken out approx. 8000 fire hoses and 442 fire pumps from standby. Some of the material taken out was a direct consequence of the fire, but much of it was to be discarded anyway. I have been informed that ‘many of the equipment mentioned by the representative were old lens hoses and some air-cooled pumps from the 50th – 60th century’. It's actually quite illustrative of too much of the civil defence challenges in terms of equipment. This equipment was designed for the Civil Defense's old war effort force. It is also true that ten of these pumps and 1000 fire hoses have been replaced. However, I do not agree that on this basis it can be concluded that the fire protection is dramatically weakened. With Stortinget's approval during the treatment of St.meld. No 22 for 2007-2008, cf. Inner. S. No 85 for 2008-2009, is the strength of civil protection during conversion and the number of ratings has decreased. Today, the force consists of 8 000 operational teams. The resources will focus on peacetime tasks related to rescue tasks and other disaster response. As a result of this change in civil protection, there is a need for the replacement of very old equipment, among other things. more fire material, fire pumps and fire hoses are needed. The civil defence has given clear feedback that the first priority is the replacement of the old one. We have started this work, and during the spring about 1/5> of the operative force is given new uniform clothing. More than half of the operational strength has now been given new boots and helmets. Therefore, the further acquisition of this equipment must be of high priority. After an overall assessment, I therefore believe that there is no basis for saying that fire protection in Norway – and in particular for forest fires – is dramatically worsened as a result of discarding the old equipment, to which the representative refers. In particular, I would like to point out the efforts made every summer – especially in the light of the experience we had with the Fromand fire – with additional helicopter resources, as well as the actual supply of competence, especially in the local fire service, which has been organised in particular against contact with the large fires in, among others. Hedmark, who contributes well.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e759	Of course, I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Minister of Justice on a happy incident. So I would also say that when old equipment is discarded, withdrawn, the situation before 2008 was, of course, that one should rely on that equipment as well. After it has been removed, I would say that the fire protection has actually weakened. The pumps taken out correspond to 60 pst. by all available fire pumps in civil protection. A specific question for the Minister of Justice is: Although this equipment was to be discarded, but has not been replaced, is the fire protection in the Civil Protection Department better or worse after the fire in Midlands in 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e766	I'm actually most concerned about now that you need to strengthen fire preparedness. It also applies in relation to fire hoses and fire pumps. So there is a need for more fire equipment, but there is also a need for other equipment in the Civil Defense Department, especially the intrusive clothing, and it is of particular importance that we continue the efforts we are making to combat air-resistance in the field of forest fires. The civil defense has today, I have been informed, 275 fire pumps and need approx. 150 to 200 in addition. We have to work for that. Similarly, I have been informed that the civil defence has about 20 000 hoses, of which about 20 000 are hoses. 10,000 of such an age that they now stand for replacement. That means that we have challenges in terms of the civil defence material, and that's why I think it should be given the highest priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e773	It is very pleasant and happy that the Minister of Justice confirms the figures and in a way flattens themselves for them. Then we may have a disagreement as to whether there is a weakening of fire protection. However, with regard to the response dressing, which was highlighted here, Stortinget has decided that the input strengths should be covered by the Labour Environment Act, and uniforms should be HMS-cleared. Only the outer garments are renewed and not the inner garments. In the case of pumps in concrete terms, the Government has granted only 5 million in 2009 and 2010. kr per year. The Right Party and the Advance Party have entered into full containment until the opinion of the experts is necessary. When will the funding be put in place, so that the Minister of Justice's promises here and now about getting pumps and other equipment in place can be fulfilled? Can we have a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e780	I am very pleased that we agree very much on the challenges. There have now been major restructurings in civil defence. The challenges now lie on the material side. We also agreed so far on the number of fire hoses and pumps. The issue is closely related to the budgets of the coming years, and that is how the government budget will be presented in October. Then you'll be able to find out if you have more money for the civil defense. But it will also depend on the extent to which we are able to give priority to equipment within the civil defence's own framework. So it's the future budget proposals that have to show what kind of pace it's going to be at this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e790	First, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on the increase in the family! So to the question: ‘It is likely that there will be an investigation into the tragic church fire on 29 May 2009 in the municipality of Våler in Hedmark. The police with their resources have done a great deal, but unfortunately the matter is not solved. Can the Council of States contribute to the failure to resolve the matter, with the aim of clarifying it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e801	I have from this pulpit in the past stated that in terms of the efforts of the Hedmark police district in the investigation of this church fire, but also of other complicated matters, there is a great job done. Investigation and prosecution are not directly under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, so it is limited to what we, as political authorities, can do in terms of investigations into specific matters, and it is not always that the findings of investigations are linked to access to resources. I would therefore just like to stress that the prosecution authority, which is known to be independent of the political authorities in individual cases, and that the handling of specific criminal cases falls within the scope of the independent prosecution authority, which does not give rise to my intervention or action. In general, however, I would like to state that this matter is very sad. An entire community has lost a center and a very important assembly place: a church. A church fire affects many in the community, and there is reason to give great favor to all those in Våler, whether the police or others, who have set up their church. The Ministry of Justice has submitted the question to the Attorney General, who has obtained a statement from the Hedmark Police District. In a letter dated 23 April 2010, the Advocate General of the Court of First Instance referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling a number of questions on the interpretation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of 21 ‘There is no doubt that extensive investigations have been carried out so far, including, inter alia: 125 witness interviews and broad analysis of traffic data in the area.’ — Traffic data may be important. – ‘Some planned exploration activities remain. Unfortunately, no information has been provided that gives rise to any suspicions against the individual. [[is]] That's the State Attorney's word. I assume that the councillor's intentions regarding church fires are being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e825	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that this is a difficult matter, and it is a matter on which we all agree that many are affected. It's given praise – it's given praise before, and it's given praise now. We don't disagree. But what's a little tragic in the tragic is that the matter is kind of consecrated, and when ordinary people hear the word 'contained' they think you're finished, then nothing happens. In terms of resources, I'm not the one to say whether it's spent enough or not enough resources, and whether more resources could give more results. But just to take a little newspaper from Eastlandingen on Tuesday, December 29, 2009, where it says: ‘We’re not going to put the case completely dead until it’s resolved. But with our crew we can't have full pressure on the case every day." So I don't know – but we all aim to clarify this matter. A simple question to the Council of State is then: Does it do anything to the Council of State when such a serious matter is settled?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e837	First of all, the national lawyer's version is fundamental, where he says that there is no lack of resources that is the reason why the matter has not been resolved. It's like in several serious criminal cases you can get into a situation where you can't find the perpetrator, and where you can want to have a big machine running all the time, but where it's actually not appropriate. At the same time, I stress what the state attorney writes, and the state attorney is, in my opinion, a wise man. He writes that ‘there is also to be a system to collect and process information that may arise and the police are free to resume investigations at any time’. I think that's a wise way to deal with these kinds of things. Then it is important that we, as politicians, but also others, give those signals to the community, while emphasising that there is an unusual amount of resources used here, and that is the right use of resources. I have full confidence that the prosecution authorities and the national attorney can handle this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e844	From my side, I conclude from the answers I get, that you are free to resume the investigation when there is room for it on the basis of new things that emerge. Life must go on for everyone, it also applies to those who were affected by this church fire, of course. But it's very bad that the person or those who have been involved in this and caused this damage are not taken. But, as I said, life must go on. When it is said that you are ‘free to resume research at any time’, I am pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e849	That's good. It is that sometimes you might perceive a decision of the order as almost obsolete, but that is not correct. This thing can bring life to itself. At the same time, the police need to assess at all times the appropriate use of resources also against this type of complex issue. So it's also my opinion that it would be very good if we could reveal the perpetrator in these kinds of cases. Fortunately, we don't have many of these things. But there's every reason to do a lot to find the perpetrator, so that we can keep the number of fires of this type at a minimum level and – if it's up to me – preferably zero.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e854	Then we go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e860	This question, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister of Defence, will be raised by the representative Jonni Helge Solsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e863	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘The medical emergency situation for Norwegian personnel in Afghanistan is now at an extremely critical level. 13 out of 24 military doctors are missing, according to the Evening Post. This may be very unfortunate for Norwegian forces and other personnel in a critical situation. What will the Council of State do to remedy this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e872	Let me start by stating that the medical situation of Norwegian personnel in Afghanistan is satisfactory. There is full medical coverage for our forces in Afghanistan, and the statement in the evening post to which the representative refers therefore does not give a correct picture of the situation. For the last two years, the defence has had a strong contribution in several simultaneous international operations, and all our soldiers have received a good health offer during this period. I am very concerned that we ensure that our soldiers out on demanding and risky missions are given a good medical offer. That is why we have implemented several measures to improve the recruitment of medical professionals. The so-called Ullevål Agreement is an important part of this work. This agreement gives the Defence the opportunity to employ anaesthetics and surgeons as much of the year can be used in foreign operations as necessary. The agreement is a complement to other existing agreements and contractual arrangements. I would also like to mention that we have established an independent health surveillance system for Norwegian military personnel abroad. I am aware that not all the positions related to the Ullevål agreement are occupied and that the scheme has met some local challenges. Nevertheless, we have ensured that our soldiers are provided with good and sound health services both in Afghanistan and in other areas of operations today and in the future. In addition to the good work done here at home, we have done this job through close and good cooperation with Macedonia and Serbia. The cooperation has given us good access to very skilled doctors and nurses. These have hosted Norwegian hospitals and served in the shoulder of Norwegian soldiers in UN and NATO operations. When our soldiers are sent out on demanding missions in areas of war and conflict, it is essential that they have a good medical offer. Through good action here at home and through international cooperation with highly competent partners, we ensure that our soldiers are well cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e885	I thank the Council of State for the answer and, of course, for the assurance that the medical services of our foreign forces are well cared for. I perceived it so that the reason why the defense has had challenges in occupying these necessary medical positions seems to be some kind of what I would call action by some doctor at the University Hospital in Tromsø. Can the Council of State assure us that, if necessary, action will be taken to prevent this, if it is such that doctors in Norwegian hospitals can prevent the defence from being given the medical coverage that the defence must have in order to provide the staff in foreign assignments with a proper medical coverage?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e892	I am also aware that there have been some local challenges with the adaptation of the Ullevål agreement. This question lies with the respective professional authorities. But I assume that the representative has also seen, no later than 22 April, this question mentioned in the evening post, and that the Health Minister has taken an initiative towards Health Nord. It has been stated that the relevant posts are about to be published. The Minister for Health expects this to start soon. For me, it is important that we have already got good qualified specialists in place under this agreement, and several of them have already served in foreign operations. I would like to emphasise again that this is one of several methods to meet the need for specialists in the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e899	Thank you again. I assume that the Council of State has an understanding of the focus of this very topic. We have a story behind us from 2007, where there was also a theme related to medical coverage in foreign assignments. We have understood that some of the measures taken by the Defense are described as unlucky by the Defense as regards the quality of medical care. It's both that you have to hire civilian doctors, foreign doctors and Norwegians, and that the medical homes that were originally supposed to be at the University Hospital in Tromsø have moved to Bodø. Can the Council of State respond to the need to do something now to ensure that the medical service has the quality that was foreseen when these medical homes were given to the University Hospital in Tromsø?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e906	It is very important for us to ensure a good health service for those involved in our operations abroad. That is why we have ensured this both through our own resources and through cooperation with other countries, and also established different agreements for cooperation with civil society. Overall, I believe that we have good access to the right skills, but this is an area that should obviously have a lot of attention, and also from my side I will follow this closely in the future. I think we have made great progress since 2007, when the discussion we have had today came to the table. More concrete measures have therefore been taken after that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e914	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘Taxation of foreign-security contracts has been amended with effect from 1 January 2010. The old rules had random and unintended tax effects on the shipping companies. However, the new rules do not apply to contracts that run and are previously secured. This means that construction work for Norwegian shipping companies at Norwegian shipyards completed in the coming years can receive a random tax bill of up to 60 million. kr in individual cases. Will the Council of State take action to prevent such an extrapolation in the construction of Norwegian shipping companies in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e923	It is true that, in the context of the 2010 government budget, the rules on the taxation of foreign-exchange insurance contracts under the Company Tax Scheme were amended so that the profits and losses were distributed proportionately between the financial capital and the assets of the companies. The obligation to pay taxes or deductibility shall apply only to the part which falls on the financial capital. A main reason for the change was to facilitate the conclusion of construction contracts by Norwegian shipping companies. Norwegian shipyards by increasing their flexibility in securing themselves against currency fluctuations. This justification did not apply to construction contracts and foreign exchange insurance contracts that had already been concluded. Therefore, the change did not have an effect on previously concluded contracts per. 1 January 2010. Currency hedge agreements that existed before the change were concluded subject to full taxation of any gain under the previous rules. In my view, there are no business policy reasons or reasonable grounds to relax the taxation of profits on such contracts. For companies that have losses on foreign exchange insurance contracts, the entry into force of contracts already concluded would mean a narrowing compared to the assumptions at the time of the conclusion of the contract. In view of this, I do not see any need to propose changes to the rules on the taxation of foreign-exchange insurance contracts that were adopted last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e936	I thank you for the answer, although it was not positive. There's usually politeness in this room. I might share the view of the Minister of Finance when he talks about the difficulty of finding business policy reasons – he might talk more about fiscal policy. I think it's tax-technical. On the other hand, with the difficulties encountered by the Norwegian shipbuilding industry, contracts are often pushed. It has to do with the situation of the yards, and it has to do with the situation of the shipowners. So you get this load in the period when you would otherwise get under the new regime. Where I disagree with the Minister of Finance, he's starting to talk about reasonableness, because I think it might be a good idea to take a new round and look at the species where you extend the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e945	Well, I guess it's the same thing in the question-tretime as in life that it goes up and down a little bit, so there might be positive and negative answers. I'll try to contribute to that balance in the future. Regarding the question, it's clear that it's always hard when one goes from one scheme to another. A date of intersection must be set and it is always difficult to assess whether to have transitional arrangements to ‘shift’ the date of intersection. One of the main points of this change was – as I said in my reply – to increase the size of the yard so that the yard places orders in Norway, and increase the flexibility in relation to currency security. So we have a good order in the future. As I also pointed out in my answer, that means that if you had given a kind of transitional arrangement, you also had to hit those who had losses. It's a difficult balance. So I think the best thing is that one now sticks to what the Storting has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e952	I understand that the headlines in Stortinget's Question Time do not concern this question today, but that there is something that might happen later, and that is of course very interesting. However, I believe that the reason why this was changed in the budget was – as far as I remember from the wording at the time – that this had both random and unintended effects. If that was the reason, it was more of a rationale than a technical cut-off date for the entry into force of a new tax regime. That's the background I'm asking the Minister of Finance to take this back and maybe think about it when he doesn't get an hour off, so at least cause it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e959	I can't promise any credit more generally, but I noticed what the representative fleet said at the beginning of the last remark. I just want to underline the following: I do not think it is right to describe the tax on this gain as an ‘extraction’ or an ‘accident tax bill’, because it was such that the previous foreign exchange insurance agreements were concluded under clear rules that the gain would lead to full tax liability and losses leading to full deductible. In my view, the fact that some large profits can be achieved under the previous agreements is not a good reason to change the tax regime with effect also for those contracts. That is to the extent that the consideration lies behind the main response I gave.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e969	‘In VG 13 April 2010, Hydro’s new aluminiumworks are mentioned in Qatar. According to VG, the State Council requires Hydro to invest in Norway as well. According to the Council of State, it is Hydro’s ‘responsible to have investment plans in Norway and they do not have them as of today’. The Council of State then obviously chooses to disregard Hydros K6 plans on Karmøy. Hydro has primarily called for more competitive framework conditions in terms of power and CO2. Will the Council of State contribute to new industrial investment in Norway by transforming the government's restrictive CO2 policy and short-term energy policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e982	The power-intensive industry is one of our main export industries and provides many good jobs around the country. The government is playing along with the power-intensive industry. That is why we have implemented many measures to improve long-term power supply. Significant steps have been taken to ensure the balance of forces and the development of new forces. We have ambitious plans for further development, including: through a common electricity certificate market with Sweden. Enova has contributed significant funds and has signed contracts with industry since 2001 for approximately 3.5 TWh, or 890 million. kr, in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. We are also in the process of establishing a guarantee scheme for power-intensive industry power purchases to enable industry to conclude new, long-term power contracts. The scheme provides a framework of DKK 20 billion in the 2010 budget and will operate as soon as it is approved by ESA. We have also set up a grant scheme for industrial enterprises establishing joint purchasing consortia of power. The government is concerned that the power-intensive industry will be able to make profitable investments in Norway even in the coming years. In many cases, the power-intensive industry in Norway is leading its industries in terms of competence and technology, energy efficiency and low emissions. This is a starting point on which we have to build. However, industrial development at home does not have to prevent Norwegian businesses from also exploiting the opportunities offered by foreign investment. Hydro’s new plant in Qatar is the result of Norwegian developed aluminium technology, tested for several years at Hydro’s aluminium plant in Sunndal. Hydro is now developing the next generation of aluminium technology at the research centre in Årdal, while Elkem and Alcoa have put their corresponding development work to Kristiansand and Lista. Combined with a good and active industrial policy, we must also have a good environmental policy. There's a lot of disagreement between the parties on the Stortinget. Not everyone takes into account the seriousness of climate change and that it also requires action from us to achieve this. But my belief is that the companies that are going to be profitable in the future, those who are going to be on an international market, must also address environmental issues, the threat to the environment and climate change. They will improve their competitiveness and be better equipped for the future. This will contribute to both Norwegian industrial policy and environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e999	Here were many words that were more intended to confuse than to clarify. When we hit the industry, one doesn't feel like the government is playing along. It's not the message, either when you're talking about ownership of power or about CO2 and the climate allowance law. Many of the measures taken by the Governments here as offensive measures are measures taken by the Government to remedy the damage done by the Government itself — once they have removed the industry’s ability to own hydropower, when they have done so that the industry receives CO2 costs in Norway as one does not get in other countries. These are not measures that make it better than it was, there are measures that make it less wrong than it was. When you talk about the need for the industry to be competitive in the environment, I fully agree. The problem is that when Norwegian policy framework conditions lead to lower profitability in Norway than a sheep in other countries, investment in Qatar is more profitable. The question then is very specific: would the Council of State approve the gas power plant that Hydro has built in Qatar, if Hydro had asked to build an identical one in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1012	In Norway, we have a fantastic situation, we're 100 percent covered by renewable energy through hydropower. If we manage that power resource well, it can provide the basis for both a high level of well-being and a very competitive industry. We also have to assume that our CO2 emissions are far above the world average, and that we also have to take our responsibilities at home to contribute to climate solutions. We're fundamentally in disagreement here. Obviously, if you don't see the problem, it's also hard to see solutions. But trying to accuse the Norwegian government of having a lack of policy in relation to our power resources – such a lecture from the representative, I find it a little difficult to accept. On the contrary, the right of return, what we have provided of public ownership of power resources – unlike a privatisation policy, as opposed to a release – is the best guarantee that we will also have power resources available to Norwegian industry in the future. The red-green government has worked closely with the powerful industry, among others. about the guarantee system, and we will work closely with them also in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1024	It is to manipulate with the truth to pretend that the fall-back case strengthens industry's ability to have power resources. The point of the fall-back case was to remove the link that has been between industry and energy in Norway for a hundred years, so that it is now the state that is to rule, and not the industry. But that error is something the Council of State would like to live in. I did not ask what the power situation in Norway is like today. It's a little bit of a mistake that one is a hundred percent covered with hydropower. That's 1 pst. wind power, and Kårstø gas power stations have delivered 3 TWh in a situation where we needed the power significantly. But that a significant amount is covered by hydropower is correct. We see what happens, for example. in central Norway, when an expanding industry in Norway without expanding its power generation accordingly. Therefore, I repeat the question: If Hydro had wanted to build an aluminium plant in Norway, where they see that in order to secure the power situation, they would have had to build a gas plant similar to that of Qatar – now the Council of State has boasted that Hydro has taken the environmental problems seriously – would they be allowed to build a gas plant as environmentally friendly in Norway as in Qatar? Or would the government, with its policy, deny it and thus destroy the power situation of such a project?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1033	The President understands that both the representative and the Council of State are engaged, but that does not mean that they do not have to choose the correct wording. The concept of error falls outside that framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1036	That the Worm Lange was built without sufficient force coverage, the red-green government can hardly take responsibility for it. It was the Bondevik government supported by the Progress Party that both adopted and implemented. That was where the problem arose, so it could hardly take Jens Stoltenberg and his team to take responsibility for it. We have gas power plants in Norway, but we have a gas power plant that is largely stationary, because its profitability has been too low. There is no lack of ability to produce power on gas in Norway that is the problem, it is that the profitability is not there, among other things. for electricity prices and for gas price reasons. I believe in essence that there is no contradiction between industry and the environment. Those who believe it is, I think they're going to be the losers of history. On the contrary, it turns out that Norwegian industry has reduced climate emissions by 27 pst. from 1990 to 2008, while increasing production, new technologies have been introduced, while increasing productivity and competitiveness. That's the way that's the way of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1043	I would ask to clarify a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1048	It's not access to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1051	When the Council of State makes a factual mistake, it has to be clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1057	You'll have to take it later in suitable forums. We go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1065	This question, from the representative of Svein Harberg to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade who is directing the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1068	The question, which has been transferred to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, is: ‘Many municipalities benefit greatly from old shots as part of the offer to students with challenges in their everyday school life. The bulkheads are often driven by a friends' association, and most of the work is done. In order to accommodate passengers, in addition to annual ship inspection visits, the shooters must pay a large fee for the renewal of the certificate. After adjustment in 2007, the fee was doubled and has become a heavy financial burden. This threatens the student offer. Will the Council of State intervene to change the charge for shooting in such use?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1077	The Ship Safety Act regulates fees for services performed by the Directorate for Maritime Affairs. I assume that the shots the representative is looking for are registered in NOR. This means that the Directorate for Maritime Affairs is in control of the ship. The Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs' work on the conversion of fees has been discussed in several staging proposals, most recently in Prop. 1 S for 2009-2010, where it appears that a technical conversion of the annual fee entered into force in 2007. The Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs' work on improving the cost orientation of the annual fee and the initial fee continues. The annual fee for NOR ships is a fixed annual fee to cover all work carried out by the Directorate for Maritime Affairs in connection with the establishment and renewal of national and international certificates. The initial fee is a one-off fee covering all work carried out by the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs in connection with the initial issue of, inter alia: national and international certificates. The representative refers to a fee adjustment in 2007. The conversion of the annual fee in 2007 resulted in no overall increase in the fee revenue, but a certain redistribution between groups. The purpose was that the fees should better reflect what different groups of ships actually incur from the work and expenses of the directorate. The annual fee is intended to reflect the Directorate’s actual costs of checking and issuing certificates. The certificates confirm that the ship complies with the underlying legislation. The Code is designed to maintain safety at sea. Old launches are initially subject to the same rules as ships offering regular passenger services. Consequently, the expenditure of the Directorate for Maritime Affairs will be as high. It is already covered today by the regulation on the collection of fees to the State Treasury for surveys, licensing, etc. the Executive Board may, on application, grant a full or partial exemption from fees granted to protected ships and school ships which have an approved maritime instruction system. Protective ships, i.e. ships on the list of the Riksantikvaren are fully exempted. The three major sailing rounds «Christian Radich», «Southern» and «State Council Lehmkuhl» are not included in the list of protected ships of the Riksantikvaren or in the definition of school ships, but are also granted exemptions according to the same principles as for ships of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1092	Originally, this question was asked to the Minister of Knowledge, and it was because I was concerned about the offer made by many municipalities, where they have such shots. In concrete terms, I know that in my municipality of residence, Grimstad, in Sørlanden, we have such a shot, of which the municipality has benefited greatly. The challenge is that it is neither protective – at least not yet, but it can be if someone takes care of it in the future – nor classified as a schoolship, but it takes passengers and needs a passenger certificate. The Maritime Directorate confirms that the smallest shots got a significant increase, and this shot got 115 pst. increase in the fee in 2007. It threatens the operation, which is to a large extent a social virtue of which the municipality is involved. It has to be obvious that this is an unfortunate side effect and not after the intention, because we'll probably be going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1097	We definitely want these shots to be on the move. I know it both from my time as Minister of Education and as Minister of Culture, so I have had a commitment and have also been involved in significant budgetary increases to different types of both protective and protective ships in the border country. But I'm very uncertain whether the pricing structure of the Maritime Directorate is the right tool to support these ships. One thing is that the Maritime Directorate shows flexibility and goodwill in exempting ships, especially those that are worthy of protection, but also – as they have done – ships that are in a grey zone or in a bordering country to be protected. But the most important thing is that the systems we have under the Education and Culture Department's schemes help to support both educational provision on these ships and protection, care, maintenance and use in a cultural historical context. So I hope we can distinguish between the work being done in the Maritime Directorate on the structure of fees and a good thing that the representative addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1102	I know that the Council of State has engaged in many fields – and that is good – and knows this field. The reason why I raise the question is that some people obviously fall between many chairs. That threatens the operation, and we are not interested in that. For the shot I mentioned from Grimstad, there was an increase of NOK 30 000 per year to renew the passenger certificate. In addition, one shall have annual ship control, and it shall pay one for, both for control and for what has to be done. There's not so much money, but it means a lot to these shots, and it leads to a little discouragement to experience this. What I finally want to challenge the Council of States is whether he's willing to look at this, whether someone comes out unfairly, that the law doesn't work according to intention, and that one might change the rules for who's being exempted from the full charge in this context. For this is another use, it's domestic traffic, and the ships are used for a social service.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1111	I will take with my colleagues the call to support under these ships. As I said, it is a work that I have supported in various roles. With regard to the structure of fees, I believe the overall objective is to have an efficient public sector, and where the fees reflect actual work. The government has spent a lot of time, among other things. to reduce some charges and charges that have not been consistent with the actual cost. The objective is that taxation is taxation, and the fee for services actually performed is fees. The fact that these fees reflect the actual work of the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs has been overall in the conversion of fees and will continue to govern the remaining work. Then we will have other ways of meeting the cultural and educational policy objectives. I agree that NOK 30 000 is not a large sum, but I am absolutely sure it is possible to find alternative solutions that support the operation of that type of ship.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1120	Let's move on to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1127	«The road authority of the Member State is soon to launch a draft selection inquiry for a "Mosseregion package". Whatever option will be rv. 19 from the center to E6 is part of the solution. Governments are responsible for reducing the disadvantages by having a tribal route through a community. With background on this option, you can upgrade rv. 19 are being forced, and what short-term measures can state authorities contribute to minimising the growing traffic and environmental problems experienced by the city?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1134	The state Road Service is in the start-up phase of a concept evaluation for the main Moss road system. The draft currency and its external quality assurance – KS1 – shall be the basis for a decision of principle in the Government on the choice of the concept for further planning. In this way, the KS1 system shall contribute to better state governance with the choice of projects to be included in the further planning. The passenger and freight traffic in the Moss/Horten ferry connection is an important part of the traffic image in Moss centre. Ferry and rv. 19 which bind Moss ferries with E6 will therefore be included in the concept to be evaluated in the KS1 process. In a urban area like Moss, the use of the drug must be assessed. So it's too early to say anything about future solutions. In my view, it would not be a good use of resources to explore the planning and design of an upgrade of Rv. 19 in Moss. It is also in the KS1 system that local governance should as far as possible await the conclusions of KS1 before continuing to plan according to planning and building laws. However, the Road Service’s 2010–2013 action programme for the period 2010–2013 provides for measures to be implemented to upgrade Moss Ferjekai during that period. The draft evaluation of the main Moss road system and its external quality assurance will provide an important basis for the priorities of the National Transport Plan for the period 2014-2023. In addition, the State Road Agency carries out regular assessments of the national road network as a basis for the next revision of the national transport plan. In this work, the network will assess both short-term and long-term measures for the development of the national road network. Rv. 19 in Eastfold and Westfold are included in boxes E18 Oslo–Kristiansand and E39 Kristiansand–Stavanger with links. Conceptual evaluation and KS1 shall also be carried out for the Moss-Horten route.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1145	Thanks for the answer. Rv. 19 through Moss has been upgraded in 2010 to the tribal route. That route, as the Council of State also says, is a port route and was originally part of phase 1 of the Eastfold package. The road connects the E18 in Westfold and E6 in Eastfold, and from Moss port the road passes through the centre of Moss and out to E6. The holiday route between Horten and Moss is the country's most busy ferry route and sweeps all its customers out on this main road. This alone represents annual traffic of 1.4 million vehicles, of which heavy transport accounts for approx. 200000 units. In addition, increasing transport to and from Moss port, which is a growing port, is also an increasing part of the environmental impact. It is then possible to ask the Council of State if it is such that a community must sit and wait for a long time and see that the transport system in the city breaks down. The question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State will contribute to a rapid and sensible solution now.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1156	I've done well about how the procedure is – from a concept selection to a KS1 – the context between one page E39 and the other page E18, as well as the evaluations that have to be done, but that have to be done in turn and in order. First of all, it is about improving Moss Ferjekai – it can be done independently, it is agreed – but in addition to that, one more thing needs to be done. This will provide an important basis for the priorities to be set for the roll-out of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1163	Thanks for the answer. The situation in Moss is getting serious. There is little local understanding of the need to sit and wait for an NTP rollover, not least for state contributions to finance the development of this particular route. Local and regional investors are signalling that they might be involved in pre-empting funds to get the works started. It also clearly shows that a whole region is concerned with this important issue. I have understood that there are also shared opinions within the Government on the use of new instruments, such as OPS, but as long as they can contribute to a faster realisation of new, requested infrastructure – may this be so that the Council of State is open to see whether this objective is devoted to the means?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1172	What's the main question here is: Will it be the future at this point in time to carry out planning and designing an upgrade of RV? 19, when one knows that the concept evaluation and KS1 are to be done first, before it is planned further by the design and building laws? I realize that there's a precarious dilemma, a difficult challenge, when it comes to Moss. My best advice there will be that the local government and the state authorities keep in touch to see if one can do some less in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1182	The question is: «The Transport Committee has recently visited Eastfold and Akershus. Important impressions include the documented need for road construction and the development of collective provision, but lack of financial opportunities. Rural municipalities across the country have increased road liability, while taking over roads with large maintenance sets. Many municipalities also need the construction and operation of modern collective networks which require substantial investment and increased resources. What does the Council of State do to provide sustainable funding?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1191	The income of the counties includes: from state frame proposal. The budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will be paid to the Midlands. Following the administrative reform, a large part of the revenue is allocated to county councils for their responsibilities in the management of county roads. About 17 000 km of today's 44 000 km of county roads were national roads before 1 January 2010. The national framework shall help to ensure the economic stability of the county councils. As a result of the administrative reform, the government has strengthened the economy of the counties. Let me mention four main points: At the base of NOK 6.5 billion follow the roads that have been transferred to the county councils. The county councils also received an extra DKK 1 billion in free income, which could be used as a roadway. In addition, state support for racial protection measures is provided on the County Road Network of the Ministry of Transport’s budget. This is set to 500 million. kr per. years in the period 2010–2019, which also means a significant increase compared to previous years. From 2010 onwards, the Government has introduced a system of interest compensation for transport measures in the counties. The main intention is that this scheme should trigger activity in the state by covering future financial costs. The scheme is based on an annual investment framework of DKK 2 billion between 2010 and 2019. In addition, I can refer to the ‘better public transport’ system, a system that allows for improvement or greater accessibility, the so-called ‘BRA’ funds, KID funds, i.e. funds to help strengthen public transport in the districts, and – even a scheme – cities with bombings after changing the road laws can also benefit from the means of transport from transport charges to the operation of public transport. This is part of a holistic solution of the transport system. All in all, I think this shows that the Government has laid a good foundation for enabling the county councils to meet the major challenges they face in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1215	Thanks for the answer, it was familiar tones. So the Transport Committee has actually been out quite recently, visiting two important states in the country. The two counties, Eastfold and Akershus, have a total maintenance run on the roads taken over from the state, at NOK 1.5 billion. It was clearly stated that they cannot cover this within a reasonable time frame without more money than the Council of State has now referred to in its first response. It was also stated that the funds transferred to roads, provided through increased framework transfers — which were also addressed by the Council of State — are also used for purposes other than roads, because there are urgent tasks, and there is a priority in the counties. This means, therefore, that the framework of the Government and the priorities of the county councils do not provide support for the financing of good roads. That means that roads are getting worse in 2010, we've been through that earlier today. So I repeat the question: what will the Council of State do to achieve a more sustainable financing of the roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1224	The representative Sortevik says this is familiar tones. That is good, there should be recognition in this sector. I also believe that detection and carelessness are an important basis for the county councils. The Association of Machine Workers has carried out an investigation around the counties. It tells us that the county councils actually spend 500 million. kr more on the road than one could count on in the 2010 state budget, and that 80 pst. of the county councils is also pleased with the transition that has now taken place, i.e. the assumption of responsibility through the administrative reform. So I would say that my top agenda here to secure the county councils means according to the tasks they have, goes through the free revenues, which go above the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs' budget, and which have increased sharply in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1233	I thank you again for the answer. At the end of its first reply, the Council of State mentioned inter alia: reward scheme related to the challenges of investment in collective systems and also the operation of collective systems. However, there are clear leads – by many cities covered by this, it is almost perceived as an extortion – in order to take into account at all when it comes to using these funds. But my problem is a little different. It is also that this form of funding, with tolls – as the Council of State said – that can be used for the operation of collective systems and investment in collective systems, is not sustainable, when, on the one hand, more toll money is being financed and, on the other hand, doing its best to have a policy that reduces road traffic. We already see that the revenue of some of these bomb packages is lower than intended. We then lack sustainable funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1242	The expression 'expression 'is also known tones from the Progress Party. I would rather call this a joint effort both to ensure a better environment and to ensure a better appearance. In the case of the bridging arrangement, it is in accordance with the climate agreement, where all parties on the bridging side of the bridging party participated. According to the agreement, the funds are double in 2009. They are held to the 13 municipalities participating in the Future Towns Programme. So that's going to be 232.8 million. kr in the current year, and it shall continue to be escalated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1250	‘“It will be a strong declaration of failure on the red-green government to put down the Bratsberg Railway. It's not going to happen. Here trains are due after 13 June,” said the head of the Senterungsdom, the State Council's own Youth Party, to Telen on 20 April this year. Former Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete has previously promised further support. Does the Council of State think it is good district and transport policy to cut the entire state's contribution to the Bratsberg Railway, and will she grant funds, or accept closure?'
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1257	Telemark County took over the operational responsibility for the local train on Bratsbergbanen from 2004 onwards after having owned the desired train. On 24 September 2002, an agreement was reached between Mr Torild Skogsholm, Minister for Transport, and Mr Kjær, County Spokesman. The agreement was concluded on the initiative of the county council, which wished to take over the responsibility for facilitating the deployment of the local train as part of the development and improvement of train provision on the route. In the 2002 agreement, no clause was included allowing a permanent ear-marked addition from the Ministry of Transport of the State of Telemark County to the operation of the local train. The latter was introduced as a time-limited scheme after the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs introduced a gradual reduction in the amount of compensation and introduced it into the general framework transfer to the county municipality, based on the fixed distribution criteria in the income system of the county municipalities. This was done following a dialogue in advance with the Municipality of Telemark, and the County Municipality was made aware of this by letters from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Transport has maintained this agreement. My predecessors did not promise a permanent addition to the Ministry of Transport's budget, but to extend the budget by one year, from the 1st half of 2009 to the 1st half of 2010. The reason for this was that the county council would have a little longer time to provide a reinforced traffic base for the local train. The Ministry of Transport has followed up this promise with an extra promise of a total of 12 million. kr in 2009 and 2010. In the context of the 2010 government budget treatment, Stortinget decided to grant 6 million. kr as final compensation of the Ministry of Transport’s budget. I point out that, in conjunction with the budgetary procedure in Stortinget, the opposition proposed to return its responsibilities to the State from 2011. There were no multiples left. I have no wish that the local train should be shut down, but I think we should stick to the agreement that has been concluded and that was concluded at the request of the county council. Following the lapse of this grant, the Ministry has assumed that contributions to the operation must normally be covered within the framework of government transfers through the income system of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs' budgets without earmarking. It is an important principle to indicate that the county has the real responsibility for the local public transport that is part of the county’s responsibility. I've registered that there's a certain commitment around the Bratsberg Railway. Following a request from Telemark County Council, I have invited the county council to a meeting with me to discuss the matter on Friday 30 April this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1270	To say something positive first, it is good that the Council of State has accepted the invitation and will meet the county. So a little bit about history writing: it's good that Telemark County, where, among other things. The centre party also took the initiative and responsibility for re-establishing a route that was then closed. So the state said they should be there. I want to remind the Council of State that she is the Council of State and not a lawyer. This is not primarily a legal issue. That's a political question. But I think the voters in Telemark deserve a clear answer, and local voters, including red-green voters, in the Notodden and the surrounding area and Grenland, deserve a clear answer. Does that mean that the Council of State now says that she categorically excludes the continuation of the state operating grant to the Bratsberg Railway? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1281	The representative of Røe Isaksen is right – this is primarily a political issue. It is a question of standing by an earlier agreement. In addition, there is a question of how we should constantly use the funds at our disposal for the operation of the railway through the purchase agreement with the NSB. There are enough figures here to show that there are many sections in this country that could have gone on the Bratsberg track. I don't want to say yes or no at this point. That is why I have invited the chairman to a meeting on Friday. By the way, it is the first response that has come from the district manager in Telemark from we sent a letter to the county council about Bratsbergbanen in January.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1288	I assume that the Council of State is not unaware of the commitment which has also been on the part of the county council to the Bratsberg course, through a unanimous decision in the county council, asking for the track to be continued, and the involvement of the Minister of Transport's own party traps locally, who have also asked for the same, and the involvement in the run-up to the election campaign, where money was just about half a year more, but at least in the opinion of this representative, it was to read between the lines that this was something that could also be expected in the future. I want to go back to my original question, namely the Senterung judgment, which is then the Minister of Transport's own youth party, and the leader who says that there will be a strong declaration of failure for the Red-Green Government on the Bratsberg Railway. It's not going to happen, he says, there's going to be trains after June 13. Does the Minister for Transport agree with the head of the Senterung, who is then the head of the Minister for Transport's own youth party?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1295	Now Røe Isaksen has the same experience as Johannes Ringdal as leader of a youth party, and thus knows that it may well be that not everything that a youth leader says is the same as everyone else in the same party stands for. Let me stress that the centre party in Telemark has led a heroic battle for the Bratsberg Railway. From the moment I joined the government, I have heard from them and also from the red-green ores. I've heard less from the County Spokesman from Right, who is responsible per. the date of operation of that path. I look forward to the meeting on Friday and what had to happen there, also from the chairman's side about what they themselves intend to set up to possibly continue to wait for the Bratsberg Railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1305	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘According to the NRK, collective prices have increased sharply in the last five years, while prices of petrol and diesel have largely followed overall price developments. The cost of driving depends on several factors, but the price picture is nevertheless relevant to people’s daily behaviour. Today, responsibility for local traffic is delegated to the state and municipality, and the state contributes minimally on the financing side. Do the Council of State agree that the State should take a greater part of the responsibility for financing public transport in urban areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1314	According to figures from the Statistical Centre, the general price level, measured by the Consumer Price Index, increases by around 13 pst. from March 2005 to March 2010. The fuel price index increased by more than 30 pst. during the same period, and the price index for transport by T-rail, tram and rail with approx. 15 pst. The price index for bus transport increased by 19 pst. In terms of price, the competitiveness of public transport should be strengthened in relation to the passenger car over the last five years, not weak, as the questioner here claims. Nor can I readily support the claim that the State provides minimal funding for local public transport. Around NOK 26 billion was transferred to the county councils in 2010 in the form of frames. This may include, inter alia: used to finance local public transport. Under the red-green government, the framework for the municipal sector has increased sharply. The government also has two-fold concessions to the better collective provision and less car-use restraint system, which are ear-marked collective measures in the largest urban areas. The government has a clear goal of continuing to strengthen the local economy in the future, and also of stepping up the path of the bypass system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1323	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I heard the brilliance of the framework transfers. So the state council knows just as well as I do that in several cities urban railways are planned. For example, in Akershus, a very long-awaited fornebuban is planned, a path solution that is scheduled to have a cost framework of DKK 2.5 to 5 billion – so path solutions are expensive. To quote the rapporteur, Mr Igstad, in Akershus: ‘How will a poor county council with a budget of SEK 5 billion be able to implement such development?’ The Council of State is in favour of contributing to the State's refinancing of such urban railway projects, such as: The Fornebuban and more, as the Council of State knows well?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1335	I can confirm that I know plans for more urban railways and also extension in any case in a city, Bergen. Urban railways are especially mentioned in Soria Moria, under the chapter Transportation. It has been said that the government should provide for a municipal economy that allows the county councils to strengthen collective provision, including the urban railway where appropriate. So it's, as the representative Tende says, a lot of money this is about, and I can probably say on behalf of the government that setting up here with billions of dollars to the city track we're probably not ready for.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1344	Then I get to try out the reward scheme, when the answer was negative when it came to urban railways. The reward scheme for public transport was also a theme when Arne Sortevik asked questions instead. It was introduced by the Bondevik II government and has been a success. So it's like Oslo applying on behalf of the capital area, this despite the fact that Akershu states have a population of over 500,000 inhabitants. Population growth in Akershus is increasing faster than in the rest of the country. The Roma region and the Follo/Western region face major challenges in collective travel across regions. Will the Council of State help Akershus, in line with many other much less densely populated areas, to apply independently for the reward scheme, and not, as today, that they must apply with Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1353	I've recorded the cooperation between Akershus and Oslo, and the benefits that it already brings to many people who are both dependent on collective provision and who are concerned about strengthening it. Now there is a certain criterion attached to the pruning arrangement. The most important thing is the relationship between imposing restrictive measures on cars in order to protect the environment and the emergence. The way these funds are applied for is cooperation between the county councils. I have not actually met this issue before when it relates to the Easter break, so it is something that I have to check something closer and come back to the representative Tenden with an answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1363	‘Minister for Transport, Meltveit Kleppa replied in written question No. 955 on 13 April 2010: ‘It is not considered rational to start the detailed planning of, inter alia: the Mosse tunnel before it is further clarified’, and referred to the decision to review the railway priorities. Railway tunnel through Moss has been working for 20 years. The municipality of Moss has redeemed properties, and the local business community has used funds and invested in confidence that the current day-trasé will be removed. Has the Council put an end to the launch of all railway projects until the review has been carried out?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1370	What I have said is that an important recognition from this winter’s operational experience is that the need to invest heavily in the maintenance and renewal of the railway network is even greater than foreseen in the management of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. It's a recognition that both I and the Government have to take seriously. The Ministry of Transport, in consultation with the Railway Agency, is examining the priorities of the railways at national transport level during the spring of 2010. This does not apply to cancelling any projects. It concerns a review of the need for maintenance, and it concerns the progress and timing of large priority investment projects. If there were to be changes in relation to the projects within the national transport plan, I would have to come back to Stortinget in a proper way with a case about this during the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1377	There is no cancellation, but there is a review of what the Government has recognised about the maintenance needs. But after the Council of State answered me on 13 April, I would say that there has been a small railway uprising in Moss and Eastfold. County rapporteur Ole Haabeth says he will not accept a postponement that will affect the progress of the project, because it is such that the county council and the municipality of Moss have joined forces to forge 25 million. kr for detailed planning. According to Moss Avis, rapporteur Paul-Erik Krogsvold in Moss is being 'disturbed' if the planning of the Moss railway tunnel is delayed. Per Inge Bjerknes, Head of the Central Party, but also Head of the Committee on Transport in the County, says that a further delay in this and other important projects cannot be accepted. It cannot be accepted, it is a turbulent rapporteur and also a turbulent country rapporteur. Then my question is, what do these state councils answer, which will do the best for the county, and which will do the best for Moss?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1386	I have also registered the commitment that is in relation to the new tunnel through Moss, both because I have been at a meeting in Eastfold, and because I have had delegations in the department to which I have listened. Some of the strongest expressions here, I think, are from the fact that the opposition has now helped to interpret my signal that here we are forced to go through these matters again. It was interpreted as cancelling, I read on pressure – it applies to both the Mossetunnel and the Eidanger-parcel – but at this point there is no basis for it. So the answer is what I've already said. When it turns out that the maintenance on the railway is so much neglected, and we have to strengthen it, we are also forced to look at the investment projects that are inside, the progress of the different projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1395	I'm glad the Council of State has noticed the great commitment both to the route through Eastfold and also to the route all the way to Halden. I am also pleased that the Council of State says that she has listened to the recordings that have been made. The council referred to its main response, where she says there is no cancellation, but a review, because there has been a recognition that there is a greater maintenance need on the railway. But then my question is once again, when does the green light come on? When has this review been carried out? When has this stop order been lifted and that is the green light for railway operations in Norway and the tunnel through Moss we see, and not the red light that we see per. Today?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1407	I mean, the most important thing for the railway in the short term is to improve operational stability and the ability to manage operational deviations. Then I hope that the representative Hemdal has seen us at the same time thinking ahead, and we are going to celebrate an intercity strategy, including Oslo–Halden, as a background, basis, for the revision of the national transport plan in 2013. So until the investment projects that are now inside. I know a very bleak attitude when it comes to taking that review – look at the resource availability of the Railway Agency and the specific signal resources. So the answer is, if there may be a need for a change in progress, the Storting will be asked a case already during this spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1417	‘In the newspaper on 21 April this year, we again see an example of drug addicts being discriminated against in our healthcare system. The law of Oslo finds that Oslo University Hospital, Ullevål, rejects psychotic people who are also drug addicts, on the grounds that coercion is not provided by the law on mental health protection when there are drugs that have caused this. Does the Council of State agree that such practices are contrary to the law, and what will the Council of State do to put an end to these practices both there and elsewhere?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1424	If we look back in time, we know that many drug addicts did not get help for their mental health problems when they were in drug treatment. At the same time, many people with mental disorders also had drug problems, who did not get help in the mental health system for their drug problems. Since the 2004 drug reform, services for drug addicts have evolved considerably. Competence and manning, especially in psychology/psychiatry, have been strengthened, and the relationship between drug dependence and mental disorders has become much more evident. On the basis of the representative, Höie's question, I have asked Health South-East for an explanation. It is Oslo University Hospital, at the hospital mental health and addiction, and the Centers for Drug and Addiction Treatment, which are responsible for providing services in these two disciplines. This organisation is assessed by Health South-East as professionally and legally correct and for the benefit of patients. I am briefed that Oslo medical officer has asked Professor Aslak Syse for a legal opinion as to whether the emergency psychiatric department in Kirkevägen, Ullevål, practises the law in line with the intention of the law in this matter. According to Professor Syses, hospital practice is not contrary to the law. At the same time, Syse stresses that ruspacers should be maintained in line with other patients, i.e. received as immediate assistance when necessary, where appropriate, ‘fees’. Thereafter, further consideration was given to the operation and, where appropriate, the use of forced residence in the legislation. Health South-East believes that practices at Oslo University Hospital comply with the law on patient rights and the law on mental health protection. The assessment is supported by Professor Syse. At the same time, Health South-East emphasises that no drug addict should become ‘casting balls’ between services, but ensures a good and sound offer after an overall assessment of the individual’s needs. In this year's mission document to regional health companies, I have asked for the following: ‘Drug problems in patients referred to mental health protection shall be investigated and measures taken to ensure that these patients receive a comprehensive treatment offer for their drug dependence.’ Similarly, drug addicts refer to drug treatment. They shall be assessed for any need for treatment for mental illness. I assume that this is followed up by the regional health companies, and I will follow this closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1444	Now my question to the Minister of Health about what Health South-East or Professor Syse thinks about the practice of Oslo University Hospital, Department Ullevål, but what the Minister of Health and Health and Care thinks about that practice. I believe that it is contrary to both the World Health Organization's recommendations and to what was the intention of the law when these patients were given patient rights in the same way as other patients, and it is also contrary to, among other things. Supreme Court practice. It would have been interesting to hear what the Minister of Health thinks about a practice where people who are drug addicts and psychotic people are rejected at Ullevål University Hospital on the grounds that they are being detoxified first. In the context of detoxification, the use of coercion is not permitted. They also have no competence to deal with psychotic people, but Oslo University Hospital, Ullevål Department has competence in detoxification. Is it also the view of the Minister of Health that this practice is in line with the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1453	With all due respect, I really tried to answer the question asked by Bent Höie. Among other things, he asked: whether I agree that such a practice is contrary to the law. That is why I also explained it. What I have said is that it is quite clear that a patient should not be rejected, but should also be referred to in the healthcare system. It has been a problem if patients who have entered acute psychiatric treatment have been on drugs. But then they have to be referred to in the system, for example. to Oslo University Hospital, where you have a rusakut. If this had been a special case, it is clear that the person should have been referred there and possibly to psychiatric treatment afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1460	I have to refer to the Council of State's response, where it was not possible to hear what the Council of State meant. The councils consistently showed what Professor Syse meant, and what Health South-East meant. My intention with the question was to know what the Council of State and the Ministry of Health and Health think about this matter. When the Minister of Health points out that these patients can be referred to Rusakutten, she is probably aware that Rusakutten does not have the right to use coercion. Rusakutten also has no competence to deal with psychotic people. Is it the view of the Minister of Health that psychotic persons affected by drugs can be rejected for treatment at Ullevål University Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1467	I also referred from the mission document, to which I myself have signed, to the regional health companies. There I also say very clearly that ‘patients who are referred to mental health protection must be investigated and action taken’. It is clear that a patient who is drugged and at the same time psychotic should be shown further in the auxiliaries, if they are not to be immediately admitted to a psychiatric ward. There has to be an assessment that's being made. However, the fact that they have to be discouraged – possibly in advance – is an assessment that needs to be made on the ground. But it should be that when someone needs urgent help, whether they're mentally ill or has a major drug problem, they come under the patient rights. Then they need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1474	Questions 13 and 14 have been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1480	‘The new 420 kV line between Ørskog and Fardal is for complaint handling in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The municipality of Naustdal has complained about the decision to pass the line through the central parts of the municipality, option 1.0. Naustdal municipality wants primary sea cable, but if the line is to be built as an air voltage, it prioritises option 1.18. This option has been assessed in the consistency management, but is not included in the concession application. Is option 1.18 considered as a future line in the complaint handling by the Ministry of Oil and Energy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1487	This complaint was sent to the Ministry of Oil and Energy by the Norwegian Waterways and Energy Directorate in October 2009. After an extensive inspection of the ministry was carried out late in the harvest, a review of all the trasé options identified and, where appropriate, requested for an adequate basis for the closure of the appeal proceedings has been necessary. The Ministry has also ensured that additional investigations have been carried out on some of the contentious areas of the line. I fully understand the views of the municipality of Naustdal on this issue regarding this power line case. The existing trasé options through the municipality are among the issues that the ministry now assesses in depth during the review process. I am concerned that the closing concession treatment is done as thoroughly as possible, where all interests are balanced against each other on a solid and secure basis of fact. I cannot now go into the assessment that the department is making of the lines in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1496	I thank you for your answer. In the comments on complaints, Statnett writes that they have not assessed the requested 1.18 option due to additional costs and that it has not been assessed to be environmentally better than 1.0. I am very surprised at this. We also see from the complaint handling that the municipality of Jölster requires comments if option 1.18 is assessed, and it is important to bring it along, if there is a real assessment of this option. Nor can Sogn and Fjordane County accept the lineage in Naustdal. The councils stated in the newspaper Firda before the election that he would specifically address the conflict situation at Grimset in Naustdal. I am aware that the Council of State cannot give a concrete signal about the handling of complaints. But what does the Council of State actually do with the challenges we've been pointing at in Naustdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1509	Sense if the question is asked another way, my answer will not be different for that reason. What I answered the first question was that I have made sure that the necessary additional investigations were started in this major and demanding case. I fully understand that there is a significant local involvement in the various trasé elections, but it is not right to address the various assessments now, as the matter is under review in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1514	I also thank you for this answer. Statnett applied for a concession on the line between Ørskog and Fardal. People see Statnet as arrogant and as having little real will to assess other solutions, both in relation to the line between Ørskog and Fardal and the one in Hardanger. Arne Grimseth has waged a long fight against Statnett, which has gone on fire. In Hjørundfjorden, in Nordfjordeid and in Sykkylven, we have seen the same thing. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 13 January, Statnett demanded a reply to the complaint before Easter when it applies to Hardanger. Statnet sends the construction work on the Hardanger line on offer before they have received a concession for the construction of the line. The head of Statnett is talking about a near-death experience for 55 days in the Bergen area last winter. And there have been big headlines in Bergen's Official Journal in the last few days where openness is also called for. We can't have a state company that in this way provokes people's confidence in the public. What does the state council do to clean up all of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1529	The questioner here draws in some issues related to a completely different question, about the line-up and the request that has come up on it, towards the Bergen region. I have found that Statnet has sent out a request for a tender in connection with any purchase of material. It is a business assessment Statnett has done, and as I hear the company has done in order to be able to ensure the preparedness in Bergen through the construction of a new line – whose permission is granted. There are no political clarifications, political signals, until the state network in this way, there is an assessment the company has made. I have no comments on that, except what I have now said.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1537	The NRK’s brainwashing programme series has focused on gender research. Despite the popular scientific nature of the series, the series has weakened confidence in parts of Norwegian social research. The Research Council evaluates from time to time disciplines and disciplines. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to ask for an evaluation of Norwegian gender research to identify whether the research is politicised, of little international relevance and of poor dissemination, as it has been produced, and what may need to be done to correct this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1544	Gender research is a multidisciplinary field of research that looks at the societal importance of gender. Historically, much of gender research is based on social sciences and humanities, although other subjects are also represented. Gender research is carried out at universities, colleges and research institutes. In most universities, there are separate multidisciplinary centres for women and gender research. Centres for Interdisciplinary Gender Research at the University of Oslo were evaluated by a Nordic panel in 2007 and received a very positive evaluation. The Norwegian Research Council also has its own multidisciplinary basic research programme for gender research in humanities and social sciences, which runs from 2008 to 2012. Projects supported by this programme have been subject to a very thorough quality assessment, in the same way as projects under other research advice programmes. In the brainwashing programme series, gender research examples have been used to shed light on a more comprehensive issue, namely the relationship between biological and environmental factors in human development. It is not my job as State Council for Research and Higher Education to provide professional assessments of Norwegian researchers and research communities. My job as the Council of State is to make sure that we have systems that provide professional quality assurance. It is therefore not my job to intervene and order evaluation of some research areas. My answer to Lien's question, therefore, is that as the Council of State, I will not ask for any specific evaluation of Norwegian gender research in addition to what is within the normal quality assurance of the Norwegian Research Council. I have to say I am somewhat surprised that there are parties that are calling for such a direct intervention by the Government in ongoing research. There is an important border between conducting targeted research and intervening in the process. My basic view is that we must tolerate debate on research. I very much appreciate the efforts of the owner to popularise research. I don't remember the last research being to those degrees part of the public debate. At the same time, I would urge a certain sense of choice of words. Those who engage in frontal attacks on individuals who have appeared in the brainwashing programme should have believed that TV is a strong medium. Harald Eia has also continued in the Swedish Broadcasting Council that the program concept was designed to expose, not to nuance. That is why I would encourage the participants in the debate to stick to the profession, not the person. I still want to promote a scientific vision that I have promoted in all other contexts in the past as well. All areas of research, including gender, are improved by increasing multidisciplinary and multi-disciplinaryism. I have highlighted this view in particular in the context of the research debate on the major climate challenges. Technological advances are important, but will not be sufficient if we do not at the same time have socio-scientific and humanistic research that tells us how technology can be used in society. Similarly, gender research must be open to input from other research traditions. I am confident that the Research Council will carry out the necessary evaluation of its research programmes and continuously develop these systems for evaluations, whether in the field of gender research or other research. When the systems work, research will also gain the necessary trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1565	I have heard several times the Council of State ask for help from universities, research environments and the opposition to create pressure to get more funding for her field. That's the taxpayers' money. That's what this is about. I am somewhat doubtful as to whether the Council of State believes that taxpayers do not ask questions about what the funds are going to do. In the case that TV is a strong medium, communication is a goal for universities and universities in Norway. Dissemination itself is an objective, and we also know that the internationalisation of research is an objective of the Council of States. I want to ask the Council of State one more time if she believes that her job to get more money for research and development has not been weakened by what we have seen in the brainwashing program.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1574	Before giving the floor to the Council of State, the President will recall that follow-up questions must be based on the main question and not on free drinking. But the Council of State decides for itself its answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1577	I am not afraid that we have a problem with respect to the credibility of research, as long as you have good systems for review, for quality assurance, and have methodological tools that enable each researcher to be identified. I think that the debate we have had on television has really highlighted the need to be open to more approaches to an area, which I think can be an important part of the thinking about research in the future. You have to be safe in your own field – and here, gender research is a good example, where you have wanted gender equality programmes, which are about power, which are about gender relationships in different societal senses. We were reminded through the television program that here are the important biological differences, which are also part of this whole thing. I think that the programme has had a good effect on both credibility in general in research, and has been a reminder to the researchers of how important it is to think also across the different disciplines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1584	I still do not agree with the Council of State, and I still do not think we have a clear answer either. Governments are talking, both now and earlier, about competition in relation to research funds. She's very concerned with interdisciplinaryity. I think that's very good. The problem is that the research front is international about where the boundaries go between biology and society, while in Norway there is a lot of society and very little biology, which has made Norwegian gender research, among other things. by the researchers mentioned in Brainwashing, to a small extent published internationally. Just international publication is something that the Council of State is usually concerned about when it comes to allocating research funds. That's why I think once again it's surprising that the Council of State is not willing to interfere. If it is that the Council of State is right, then an evaluation should also be an advantage for this research.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1591	I am sure that the systems we have for critical review of both the efforts of researchers and research are good. We will, as I mentioned earlier today, have an evaluation of the Research Council, where, of course, all aspects of the establishment of programmes by the Research Council, the follow-up to programmes, the thinking, the interdisciplinary nature of the programmes and the inter-programmes will be important elements in this – and the way in which research is evaluated. But I do not agree with the questioner that the social angle is negative and something to intervene in and get less of because in a programme you have some idea of the lack of interdisciplinary in this. On the contrary, unlike the Advancement Party, I do not want to interfere in research. I don't want to run the research that way. I want to facilitate that we have a good methodology, good quality assurance systems. I am sure that in the future both the Storing and the Government will facilitate good research programmes so that both the social sciences, the biological and the technological aspects can emerge.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1599	‘According to the evening of 21 April this year, no money will be allocated as expected for the Government’s main poverty measures. The state’s new award criteria well into the year have led to the decline of urban areas in Oslo, which are now well under way with the qualification programmes. Has the Council of State been aware that the new criteria would contribute to a significant reduction in this long-term unemployment offer in Oslo, and will the Council of State now ensure that fresh funds are put in place so that the offers are maintained and everyone can participate in the programmes as needed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1606	The Qualification Programme is an important measure, including: to combat poverty. The aim of the qualification programme is to contribute, inter alia, to: several long-term beneficiaries of social assistance receive a follow-up which in turn contributes to activity and work. Success in this work is important both for those involved and for society. In the long term, it will also help reduce social assistance costs for municipalities. The government and the municipalities must therefore contribute together to keeping the activity up. The Qualification Programme is a municipal responsibility managed by the Nav offices. Municipalities are compensated for the total additional costs associated with the programme, based on estimated additional costs per year. participants and average number of participants in the plan. The qualification programme has been phased in with the establishment of the Nav offices. From 1 January 2010, all municipalities shall provide a qualification programme. As a result of the phase-in phase, the allocation of the State budget has been strengthened each year. The allocation of funds to each municipality is based on the social assistance key of the income system, adjusted for the time of establishment of the Nav office and an estimated trajectory for the number of participants in each municipality. The allocation of each municipality is linked to an estimate of the expected activity. If a year’s actual activity has been lower than the target figure, this means that a higher government grant has been granted than actual implementation in isolation. It is provided that any unused funds are used for the purpose in recent years. The municipalities had combined a lower activity related to the programme both in 2008 and 2009 than foreseen in the appropriations. In 2010, several municipalities and some parts of Oslo will also have an estimated access of participants that is lower than the take-off. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has briefed me that some municipalities are dissatisfied with the 2010 grant. In this context, the Directorate has identified the need to provide up-to-date information on the background to the distribution. Contact is made with individual municipalities, including Oslo, where there is a need to review and discuss the distribution in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1621	I thank you for your answer. Now it's not just Oslo this is true. I have also had enquiries from a small municipality called Verran, and a municipality called Steinkjer. It shows that municipalities of varying size – i.e. like Oslo and the other two municipalities – have a strong reduction in the number of people they can offer this programme. The problem is that they have already offered and planned these places, and that the letter of assignment was very late. So the level of activity that they were supposed to have, and that they've already added, they're based on. It is promised, and they will have the means to do so. It will mean a lot to a small municipality like Verran when they themselves have to cover almost half of the participants in order to maintain the level that they actually have to maintain. It is a law that says that when you are entitled to this programme, the municipalities should also offer it. Now it was expected that the government would step up this, so the municipalities did not expect them to start stepping down now as they were doing well. It gets very important when it's 40-50 pst. reduction in relation to the places planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1630	I stress that there is actually an escalation in the use of funds for qualification programmes. What we're now discussing here is the key figures for how to distribute these funds between municipalities. I just want to say that I essentially based my answer on Oslo, which was the question, but I can answer in general for the other municipalities as well. The point is, as I said, this is distributed through a social welfare key. Thus, it is assessed in relation to the population and in relation to different parameters related to the way in which social assistance is distributed. And then you're going to think about how many people expect to get into the program. This means that many municipalities – including Oslo – have had a much larger grant in 2008 and 2009 than they actually used. As I pointed out in my post, it is provided that they will spend that money the following year. The same applies to other municipalities. As for the details of how this distribution is done, I'm a little bit of a restraint, because it's a complicated calculation. But I would like to stress that the qualification programme is a great advantage for the municipalities themselves. They get their social welfare budget down if they invest in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1639	Now there are many municipalities that fear what will happen to this qualification programme in the time to come, because in terms of the assessments that have been made, they do not agree with it either. It has been suggested that some of them should be out of the programme, and that they should be reduced again. It doesn't match what's happening in the municipalities in question. They have completely different measures than what you operate with in that letter of assignment. I fear that once again we see examples of the government's carrot policy. First comes with carrots: this is to be covered by the state – and then stimulates a high level of participation, as has been done here. You also have very good results from the Cases in Oslo, but they now have to cut all the way down to 100 places, from close to 260. It's dramatic! And then it's added to the framework grant from next year by. Most people know what happens when this is added to the framework grant. Then it becomes part of the municipality's other budget. It will be a heavy burden for municipalities to be able to offer good responses – because we need good action, not just to get someone to take action. This is why many are concerned about. What can the Council of State say about 2011? Will it be included in the framework grant, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1648	I can't say anything about 2011 now. But what I can say is that I don't share that understanding, that you sort of reduce the qualification programme and support for it, because you don't. An increasing proportion of funds have been allocated to this. We're talking about a distribution. In principle – although it has been successful that you have had to work to get the level of activity up, because it is complicated to get this group into – most municipalities have actually been overcompensated. And then we see that through it you have a system to distribute it -- because you have to, you can't do an individual adaptation every year, you have to have a key figure for this -- because some municipalities have supposedly turned out to have something smaller than they had foreseen. But I stress that this is a government grant. These are the things we're talking about, or they're getting social assistance from the municipality, and it's okay for the municipality to use its social assistance grant for the qualification programme. In fact, it will in the long term be profitable for municipalities, to get this group from social assistance into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1658	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Labour the following questions: ‘In order to achieve the objective of the IA Agreement on Reduced Sickness Absence and to succeed in getting more people back to work, the qualification programme and measures under the Rapid Rehabilitation Facility are, inter alia, occupational rehabilitation, important. What will the Council of State do to allow more new members to participate in these arrangements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1667	I repeat that the purpose of the qualification programme is to contribute to, inter alia: several long-term beneficiaries of social assistance receive a follow-up which contributes to activity and work. The qualification programme is a municipal responsibility managed by the Nav offices, but it is the State that covers the total additional costs incurred by the municipalities. From 1 January 2010, all municipalities shall provide the programme. Since its inception, the government has stressed that all those in the target group should receive an offer as soon as possible. By 28 February 2010, it was registered in excess of 15 600 applications and nearly 12 400 decisions have been taken on the qualification programme since 1 January 2008. By the same date, 8 813 participants were registered in the programme. I am pleased that many municipalities have gradually been successful in implementing the programme, and feedback so far shows positive results as to how many are coming to work or education after the programme has been completed. In addition, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare implements several measures to support the implementation and follow-up of the Qualification Programme in the Nav Offices. The effort shall be continued in 2010. Faster back has a completely different purpose. It is to get sick people back to work faster, and thus also to reduce sick leave. Activity in the 2007 start-up year was relatively low, but increased significantly in 2008 and 2009. Allocated funds for the purpose of 2010 will be used both in the Employment and Welfare Act and in regional health enterprises. From start-up in 2007 to and from the third quarter of 2009, less than 60,000 health care providers were referred to through regional health establishments. Nearly 9 000 had participated in various measures under the Employment and Welfare Act, of which around 2 600 had been employed in labour-oriented rehabilitation. Many sick people have thus been offered, among other things: job-oriented rehabilitation through faster return. Further dimensioning of the scheme will be assessed in the light of the new IA agreement, experience and knowledge of what works. The impact assessment of Societal and Business Research AS will be available during May, and there will be an important premise in assessing how to set up this offer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1682	I thank you for your answer. At the same time, I have to say that much of what has happened is good, but I am very concerned about the future. In particular, this goes back to Raskers, and labour law rehabilitation, as the Council of State knows we've been in several times. The state there is now that there is full stop in all states. The medians — probably because the activity has been much higher — have been used up, so the permissions for 2010 are really about. 40 pst. lower than that used in 2009. I have to say that I am concerned about the possibilities for new ones to get into that offer, when it is not possible for local Nav offices to use the companies that offer good measures, so that, instead of being sick, a person can get measures that will allow a person to come back faster. At the same time, we believe that the Council of States refers to the IA Agreement. I have checked a little in the IA agreement, and several places are called the Faster Back. Does the Council not see that it is difficult to achieve the objectives of the IA agreement if one is unable to allow more money, so that the action Faster Back can be used even more?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1691	I understand that now we are talking about Raskers back and have left the qualification programme behind – so we agree on what we are talking about. I am pleased that Kjell Ingolf Ropstad here refers to the IA agreement, where one is just occupied by the Faster back as an instrument. But I would like to stress that, in addition to there are a lot of other instruments in the IA agreement. As I have previously also replied to other representatives in writing, Raskere and I had an under-use back in the first few years the system was in place – they then received a large under-use of money, which was transferred to 2009. This resulted in an artificially high level of activity in 2009 — all because of the way you see it. The level of activity fell again in 2010 — not because less money was allocated than what had been done step by step year after year if you had followed the normal pace, but because you had spent relatively much more money in 2009. This has led – as the representative rightly emphasises – to the fact that the same increase in the programme has not been achieved, so to speak, and that it is felt that someone who does not receive should have received. This is what we're going to look at in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1702	Thanks for the answer, again. I'm glad for the last one that gets underlined, that one should look at this for 2011. I've also told the Council before that I thought that maybe one should take this a little more seriously, and be even more concerned about the situation in 2010. One experiences – at least I experience – getting feedback from companies that are implementing this important service. They say they feel that Nav has to go away from contracts because the money is not there. I got feedback from the county in mid-February, where they say it's empty for money, so they can't use it anymore. There is very little help for those people who are sick today, who should have had help getting out of work, that there was a higher activity in 2009. When a person talks about the qualification programme and the municipalities – without going back to the previous round of questions – I can take an example in my own municipality, Arendal, where they got a signal about 114 places, but still at 77. Of course, it's serious for that municipality. When there are numbers for the whole year, and one has used a lot in the beginning, that means that the number of houses has to be even lower to reach the average. For further information, can the Council of State look at the possibility of a kind of prediction rather than what is now happening, whether it concerns labour law rehabilitation or the qualification programme, that municipalities or businesses are in a situation where there is no money, and therefore can't be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1713	I think I'll take the Fasters back now. There are so many things I have to answer, and then we'll have to discuss this with the qualification program later – because these are two big questions. I think it is important to be aware that very much of what is done under the Faster Back Programme is also done in the general budget of action. However, this is an allocation that falls within the scope of the IA Agreement, where there is a type of priority for the sick. It's not like we don't have any tools for people who are sick, but we don't have that priority. So we still have it -- I stress it -- so I think it's very important that you see it in a bigger context. I also think it is very important that we now look at the evaluation that is coming, in order to get a thorough evaluation of the measures. It doesn't mean that I don't think this is good, but I'm very concerned that we have to make sure that we don't compete to give the most money to things until we know how it actually works. And then we're going to have a proper review – I'm responsible for this, of course in conversations with the stakeholders – of how this can be arranged in the best possible way. It is important to stress that there is no depriority of the action. It's the same amount of money, but it was more in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1728	«Predictability is a supporting element for all industrial activities, including fisheries. In St.meld. No 40 for 2006-2007, Royal Cancer Management, a five-year management plan is underpinned. Many local fishermen and businesses have invested and expected a withdrawal corresponding to the withdrawals in 2008 and 2009. The industry therefore finds it difficult to deal with an administrative regime that changes already after two years. Does the Council of State consider that such framework conditions give the industry predictability?’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1735	Today's king crab management is based on St.meld. No 40 for 2006-2007, Royal Cancer Management, as the Stortinget dealt with in March 2008. The aim is to limit the further spread of king crabs in Norwegian sea areas and to ensure the lowest possible population of king crabs outside a quotad area east of 26 degrees east. Within the quota area, the stock shall be managed in a manner that facilitates activity and employment in that area. In no way has it been suggested that the free catch after king crabs should be permanent. On the contrary, it is an objective to keep the population of king crabs at the lowest possible level in areas where there is a free catch and a ban on discards. It's clear from the news of royal crabs. The background to the fact that proposals for adjusted borders have now been consulted is the objective of managing stocks in the regulated area in a way that ensures activity and employment in the area. Stability and predictability shall be found in the regulated catch and it is precisely in order to achieve this that an adjustment of the limits of the quota area has been proposed. At the same time, it is also important to bear in mind that all the harvesting of wild marine resources is subject to natural fluctuations. A fixed allowance that does not take into account the change in nature is a short-term and unsustainable way of managing resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1744	As the Council of State itself mentioned, Norway has committed itself to limiting the incidence of king crabs. The industry itself says that with an extension of the limit to 25 nautical miles where you cannot fish freely, it seems that control and focus on illegal fishing are more important than limiting the population, as the Stortinge has stated in connection with the Storing Message. It has to be possible to take care of both of these issues, I think. What's the Council's point of view here? Will a multidisciplinary selection, as proposed by the Norwegian Fisheries Team, be a good input to establish a long-term and predictable management, focusing on both taxation, management and control?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1751	This is an area where it's important to have multiple thoughts in your head at the same time. As I said in my answer, it is put up to a commercial and employment effect of royal crabs within a regulated area. It's solid. When questions are asked about the activity outside the quota area, there is an objective of at least reducing the stock as far as possible. So I guess there's a reason to think that there's been a little bit of movement over that line, that those who should have fished outside might have sneaked a little bit inside, and thus made the situation somewhat different from what we mentioned earlier. I will now listen to the hearing replies that have been received regarding how this should be handled further. But as I say, it's important to separate here; there are two different areas we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1760	We've had a hearing. Is the Council of State satisfied that this round of consultations has the consequence that the catch of royal crabs is suspended in a quotad area until the Ministry has fixed the total quota?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1765	I would have liked very much to have seen that we had clarified this earlier. Now at the same time, the quota year for royal crabs is from 1 April to 31 March. Everyone who has looked at the calendar knows that we have passed on 1 April, and we still have no regulations in place. So the principle of predictability is at hand. Now, at the same time, nature is playing on layers, at least this time. The quota catches do not take place at this time, simply because the crab is of such a quality that it changes shells and there is not much activity. So it's more important to me that we get a regulation in place that benefits both the actors and nature, a regulation that can open up the catch in June at the earliest.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1776	‘Many children are affected by the break-up of their parents’ life, with subsequent issues of association in their first year of life. Father loses all rights to the parental allowance in maternity leave after a break in life, as the mother in the child's first year of life is given priority as a caregiver because of breast-feeding. How will the Council of State take care of the child’s interests after a break in life in order to fulfil the parent’s intention of good contact between child and father early in the life of the child?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1783	As a general rule, parents living together must share the parental leave. However, in the event of a break in life between parents before the social security period is over, the rest of the social security period is due to the care of the child – regardless of whether it is a father or a mother. However, it is not that the other person is unable to take leave. The legislation allows parents to share care and leave by agreement. In my view, it would be unfortunate if Dad could demand the father's allowance in situations where the parents do not live together and Mother has the main care for the child. The sharing of parental leave when parents do not live together requires flexibility from both parents to ensure a good care situation for the child. Therefore, sharing must be based on consensus and cooperation, and I think it would be unfortunate to impose a compulsory sharing of the leave. There are many different situations here, and the level of conflict may be high. Very young children are vulnerable. Therefore, I believe it is essential that we always take the best interests of the child into account. But I would like to make it very clear that the parents are free to share the leave between themselves if they want it and agree on sharing. Parents may also receive good and qualified assistance in agreeing on such agreements at our family protection offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1792	I thank you for your answer. It was not so much new that came out of it. Like the Council of State, we are fully aware that a break in life is very conflicty, with all that results. After a break in life, the family allowance is managed by Mother alone, and you are then totally dependent on the fact that there is a good contact between Dad and Mother after a break in life. In a lot of situations, we know that's not the case. The focus of both government parties and the Progress Party has been on children’s right to maintain good contact with both parents after a break in life. We know how important it is that the child also has contact with father in the first year. It is, as it were, stated and decided that fathers are important in the child’s life. My question to the Council of State will then be: Aren't fathers important to the children even after the breakup?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1801	I am very pleased with the sudden commitment to the feather quota of the representative Horne. I'm happy to come back to that, because my father is very important to the child, not only for the first year, but especially for the first year. That is why it is an important political goal for several fathers to be more with their young children. I think it is important to stress that it is not automatic that the leave in the event of a break in a life goes to the mother, but it goes to the person who has the main care. It could be Dad, too. I think it's a natural principle in principle that if there's no agreement on the sharing of the leave, the leave follows the one who's going to have the main care for the child. Of course, it will often be a mother, but it can also be a father. The aim must be to ensure that, in such a situation, as much as possible, a distribution is agreed, regardless of the type of association they should have later in their childhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1808	What I think we can agree on both is that it's important that father is part of the child's growth. But if the Progress Party had been able to get through its policy here, the entire parental leave had been divided equally between mother and father. Then we had not had the discussion that it is mother's or father's. But anyway, we see that as a general rule, it is often mother who gets the main care, and we also see that it is mother who can basically train a lot of things. Thus it is the father who becomes the suffering party and who does not get the contact with the child that is important. We legislators at Stortinget will ensure that all laws are as they should be. My question is: What is the Minister's view that today's law provides Nav, as the managing body, and the child's mother alone with the ability to manage and manage a father's allowance without the child's father being heard?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1815	It is new to me that the policy of the Advance Party should lead to the sharing of leave equally between mother and father. I have seen that the policy of the Progress Party was just the opposite – that it should not be kept by time for Dad. I record a strong commitment to set aside time for father in the event of a breakup of life, which I do not seem entirely related to the lack of commitment to set aside time for all other fathers. I am concerned that all fathers will have time – a break in their lives or not. Then I think it's natural that the leave on a break in a life follows the one who has the main care for the child. Fortunately, in very many cases, parents will agree on a distribution of care and therefore also a distribution of leave. If it is that one parent has the main care, there is the possibility of being voluntarily agreed to a sharing of the leave, and we have a public utility that can facilitate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1820	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-04-28.ana.ud1511e1833	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
