ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e249	In addition, the following Supplementary agenda [[2009-2010]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e262	The representative Ingebjørg Vosskensen, who has been on leave, has once again taken the seat. Multiple permit applications are available: on Friday, 18 June from the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Lise Christoffersen to attend the session of the Women of the Socialist International in Andorra of the Workers' Party on the leave of the representative Jorod Asphjell Friday, 18 June in order to represent the Norwegian Sports Association under the Football World Cup in South Africa from the representatives of Sonja Irene Sjøli, Trond Helleland, Ingall Olsen, Karin Andersen, Øyvind Halleraker, Geir-Ketil Hansen, Solvency Horne and Linda C. Hofstad Helleland respectively on the welfare permit Friday, 18 June. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hedmark County, Frøydis Elisabeth Sund, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Karin Andersen, because of illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Bente Stein MathisenFor Buskerud County: Elizabeth Skogrand and Kjell Børre HansenFor Finnmark County: Willy PedersenFor Hedmark County: Torbjørn DybsandFor Hordaland County: Eivind Nävdal-BolstadFor Nordland County: Liv HauknesFor Rogaland County: Terje HallelandFor South Trondelag County: Knut Graveråk and Lars Bjarne Tvete
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e367	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e370	On behalf of the representatives Henning Skumsvoll, Oskar Jarle Grimstad and myself, I would like to propose a comprehensive plan for CO2 management. On behalf of the representatives Henning Skumsvoll, Oskar Jarle Grimstad and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to make the support scheme for energy efficiency measures technology neutral.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e380	The representative, Mr. Tord Lien, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e383	On behalf of the representatives of Bente Thorsen, Mette Hanekamhaug, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen the real world of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e388	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before we move on, the President will announce the following: the representatives must be reminded that, during the summer, new technology must be installed in the representative places, i.e. here in the Chamber. It is a comprehensive project, which requires all desks and chairs to be disassembled and removed from the hall. It is therefore necessary that all drawers be emptied before we end the meeting tomorrow, so that one does not risk losing irreplaceable assets. The President hopes that the representatives will be helpful in this respect. The President will propose that the Stortinget examine the supplementary agenda after the ordinary agenda. No objections have been raised to this proposal. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e412	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e421	When Stortinget will now deal with a state participation case of 4,4 billion. kr in a capital increase in Norwegian Hydro ASA, there is also something far more Stortinget has been invited to deal with. The background to the company’s need for capital increase was triggered by an agreement to purchase Vale. At the same time, there is a strategic arrangement in Hydro that the board recommends its owners to participate in. This is an extremely important and possibly crucial positioning of the company for future growth opportunities. It is therefore a major and very important industrial decision that the Stortinget has now been invited to. I am therefore pleased that the Committee is in agreement with the main elements of such an important decision as we are about to take. Hydro has been a central industrial company through the industrialisation of Norway and, by doing so, also has a strong national significance. Hydro is too many the very symbol of the industrial nation of Norway. The company now invites its owners to an active expansion strategy in the production of aluminium. It's claimed by many that aluminium is the future metal. I also have great faith in it. One of Hydro’s challenges up until now has been that they do not have satisfactory control over the commodity situation. An unexplained commodity situation in the future would make the expansion strategy and growth potential much less and not least more demanding and risky than is now the case. The purchase gives an adequate raw material situation, according to the company's assessment. It will be absolutely crucial for the future of the company. Through the examination of this matter by the Committee, there is an agreement to endorse the company's strategy through the purchase. Nevertheless, it has become a central element in the Committee's position that the company must continue to focus on the renewal and development of production lines also nationally, not least in view of the company's traditional importance in Norway. The energy that the company will provide nationally will have a significant impact on the company's natural connection over time. I'm going to be very careful to become national romantic in this matter, but there's an overall committee that expects the company to emphasise just this importance in its approach to the defined strategy. Finally, a few considerations in the areas where the Committee disagrees. The Right Party and the Progressive Party do not wish to authorise the State to increase its holdings over time to 39,9 p.m. I'm sorry. Taking into account the financing of this purchase, it is an industrial composition of importance. The reason why the composition appears to be an industrial piece of music, where musicality is of high quality, is related to the corrected issue that gives 22 pst. of the shares in Hydro, but on which, at the same time, the State ensures a negative majority of about 34,4 pst. The Committee agrees that a negative majority of the company must be retained by the State, and the Committee also stresses this. When the Progress Party and the Right will not let the State buy again up to 39.9 pst. by the shares, some strategic ownership opportunities are blocked for the future. Thus, a similar industrial composition that we are now implementing would be impossible – because of the fact that the transactions underlying the financing of the purchase we are now discussing would reduce the state's ownership to less than 30 pst. Such a future composition would have had a poorer musical sound and would, as a unified staging actually expresses, not be acceptable. I would therefore once again regret that there is not a single committee that will extend the scope of action in the future by a future purchase. A holding in excess of 34,4 pst. provides increased scope for action by the State in any future similar case. In addition, it is by no means foolish to place a lot of money where the money yields good returns, which I think Hydro will provide in the years to come. Finally, I will be so honest to acknowledge that I am very happy that this setting makes it so clear that we agree on a major industrial event. Then I can only hope that the minority will reconsider their position that the state can buy up again in the company, so that we can also carry out large industrial compositions with a musicality of dimensions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e440	Now I'm going to be careful and watch my back to comment on the musicality of the committee's chairman, and I'm not going to use the word 'complaint' to others' positions on this matter. I have great respect for why the individual takes his or her stand. And the background for going against IV and V is just the lack of coherence between what's right here and what's going on here. shall deal with the next case in this Chamber. The majority believe that we should already give a power of attorney and say that we have to up to 39.9 pst. Why 39.9 pst.? Why not 40 pst., 40.1 pst. or 40.2 pst.? These are things that you have to have a certain long-term and a certain kind of strategy behind it. It is fully possible for the Council of State to come back at a later stage if you have – and see – good strategies. The chairperson of the Committee was also concerned about the return of money. Yes, let's hope so – and I think so too. I think this purchase is just a good investment. But I think it's a little important that we from this pulpit are not so sloppy in our case – I say ‘believe’, because the assessments that have been made are made by others. We have seen over the last few years, and I think the committee's chairman should also take on board, that the performance of this company – the results it has been shown – has not been exactly uplifting, to say the least. But I think that this purchase that is when happens is a step in the right direction to get more control over the raw materials in the production of aluminium, and that's what this is all about. I won't dwell on it anymore. I think it's a reasonable thing to sell down and do this trade and this exchange on the owner's side, but it has to be more than enough that you have 34.5 pst. in this company. Instead, the Council of State comes back – he himself has announced that he will come back to this room with a new message of ownership – and then it must be the time to discuss these strategies. Because we've seen a little too many examples that there's going to be a pieceful and shared ownership policy. Spitsbergen Kullkompani is one of the things where you can wonder what's going on, I think up to several of us do. I look forward to the debate on the next issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e451	In the beautiful summer presence that surrounds us, it's interesting to hear the committee leader's pan-egyrian considerations about the national romanticism of Norsk Hydro. I now hear that increased state active ownership has got a new word. Now it's called "industrial composition" with an averaging of unmusicality – for those who didn't want it. I think it is that in the case of the strategic decisions and future activities of Norsk Hydro both internationally and nationally, the company has a significant influence. It has significant economic muscles, it's listed on several of the world's exchanges, it has access to capital in many ways, it's not at all dependent on being able to attract a large state ownership. What the company’s strategies depend so much on, and I’m talking about operating in Norway, is how the framework conditions in Norway are facilitated for the company – taxes, taxes and access to, not least, energy. That's pretty important. When the chairman of the committee underlines the great consensus that is, yes, and says that that consensus gets a strange conclusion from the opposition parties, I totally disagree with that. On the contrary, we stress in a note that it is the company's board that makes the strategic choices. We would like to applaud this transaction from the European Parliament – and we do so to the greatest extent – but the company's investment decisions in terms of production and development, in our country or in other countries will depend on the framework conditions laid down, and the board will do so. In this respect, I would also like to refer to the section of the statement on dividend policy. There is a contradiction in saying that one wants the dividend policy to be firm – it is the government, not the Stortinge, that has to decide. What are the results of the company? How's the business going? What would be sensible to suggest for the general meeting of dividends? So it'll be a majority of the shareholders who normally decide in a democratic way how much it should be. I think it makes a lot of sense for the Right – and the Advance Party, because they believe the same thing – to move towards a later enlargement. There are very few arguments that it makes sense to use money. We think it is a reasonable use of money to participate in the issue, which means that you keep approx. 34,5 pst, but it's spending 4-5 billion. kr later, and in addition, notifying the markets that there is a buyer who intends to buy up in the company, I think it is a strange business business – especially from parties who talk about running an active state ownership, and who would like to contribute to the strategy from here too. Then you should be very, very careful, I think, by notifying such a thing. Then it's almost like that it's better that these recordings that we get from the ministry in terms of ownership – and it changes quickly in our days, SAS, Yara, Hydro has been on the track – come suddenly than someone has said in advance that one has intended to buy up, not to mention all shareholders and those interested in securities around. These are safe papers that you can be absolutely sure about in the Norwegian state and are going to buy up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e466	The Hydro Executive Board has announced that they will propose an extension of Hydro's equity of approx. 10 B.C.E. kr. The Board’s proposal is related to Hydro’s signing a purchase agreement with Vale that Hydro will take over Vale’s business in the case of bauxite, alumina and aluminium production against settlement in shares and cash. The proposal proposes that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade be empowered to participate in a capital increase of approximately 10 %. 10 B.C.E. kr in Hydro, in which case the country’s share of the issue will be approximately. 4.4 B.C.E. kr. According to Hydro, the lack of own raw material resources increases the risk, decreased cash flow from operation and lower robustness in bad times. The purchase makes Hydro self-sufficient on the raw material side. In addition, Hydro and its Management Board are provided with additional industrial competence. As long as the holding exceeds one third, the State will have negative control over the same central conditions as today after the purchase. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the government's proposal. The proposal also proposes that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade should be empowered to vote in favour of a directed extension of equity against Vale, which reduces the state's ownership of Hydro to approximately approximately EUR 10 million. 34.5 pst. In addition, the Government proposes that the Ministry of Industry and Trade be empowered to charge the purchase of Hydro shares within the current mandate, so that the State’s holding can be increased over time to 39,9 p.m. The government today has a mandate from Stortinget to purchase up to 51 p.m. in Hydro. Thus, in connection with the purchase and the proposed financing model, the state's ownership of Hydro is reduced from 43.82 pst. For approx. 34.5 pst. The Christian People's Party believes that a reduced ownership position can be accepted and must be seen in the context of strengthening the company's industrial potential. At the same time, we support the proposal to empower the Ministry of Industry and Trade to increase over time the state's ownership of Norsk Hydro ASA to 39.9 pst. The government already has a mandate from Stortinget to buy up in Hydro. There have been many debates on state ownership lately. State power, BaneTele, Aker case and Statoil's investment in oil sand are some examples. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is both surprised and pleased that an overall committee joins the following remark: ‘The Committee expects the company to have a specific focus on the social responsibility of the company, including environmental considerations, ethics, cooperation with trade unions and employees’ rights. When extracting natural resources, it is particularly important to focus on environmental impacts. The Committee will also assume that the company continues to have a strong focus on the development of environmental technologies and new production opportunities.» If the State is to become a significant owner of Hydro, the state ownership must be managed in a good manner. This means that the state that owns must have clear expectations that companies have a strong focus on how to take into account, among other things. environment, migration, diversity, ethics, research and development are followed up in the design and follow-up of business strategies. We look forward to this in the treatment of the announced paper on state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e486	Let me first just thank the Committee for its work on this matter and also for its broad support for the broad lines of the proposal. We are involved in this decision that is being made today, in creating a stronger Hydro. Increasing global competition in raw materials is likely to be further fueled over the years, and with the Storting's agreement today, we will be helping to strengthen the basis for the company's further activities. I expect the acquisition of Vale's aluminium business to make the company more robust, and I expect this, among other things. will contribute to job security, including in Norway. I expect Norsk Hydro to further develop its business in the pact of good traditions. A good interaction between management and employees is one of the reasons for Hydro's industrial success. In line with the ownership announcement, the government proposes that the government continue as a long-term owner and maintain a large ownership interest in Hydro. We do that in order to rehabilitate the model that has given Hydro success and that has contributed to the building up of industrial skills, the further development of jobs and the good management of Norwegian natural resources. It is important to note that ownership contributes to the maintenance of core functions and research and development tasks in Norway. In my opinion, it is crucial that we have industrial enterprises operating on the basis of Norway, and the government will continue to be a guarantor of this. The issue we are dealing with today is important to ensure a competitive Hydro, but it is also a good solution to further develop Hydro. The size will, by supporting this, underline that state ownership is both flexible, dynamic, active and long-term. It will also be the foundation for the government's future exercise of ownership. So just briefly about two things that came up in the debate, about why exactly 39 pst., close up to 40. This is because if we buy over 40 pst, the different purchase obligations trigger. They mean that what was originally in the ownership message cannot be fulfilled in the same way without having quite significant consequences. But I think we should show that flexibility. I also want to assure the representative Fleet from the Right that we will do this in a good way. We have no hurry to buy up. We're going to buy so that we get it done at a good time, also in the market. But it is that since we need authority to do this, it has to be notified in advance. If the government had started to buy shares in Hydro without the consent of the Stortinge, I think we were bad out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e501	The latter may seem reassuring. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e506	Only two short questions, for there is a broad consensus on the trade to be made. With regard to what I referred to in my post related to strategic acquisitions, etc., on which the Council of State itself was in, and that you would not be able to fulfil what is in the current ownership message, shouldn't you have waited to take the strategic debate until we come to the consideration of a new ownership message? It's already in the next case, where the Council of State has notified it. Question 2: What does the Council of State think will be the development related to the course of the company, when the state already announces that it is ready and wants to buy up over time? Does not the Council of State think that it affects the course of the company, which means that the gateway will be more expensive for the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e515	On the first point, we believe that it is natural to take a closer look at the ownership message adopted and dealt with in Stortinget. That means it's natural to add up to a purchase up to 40 pst. That is the closest we get to what the ownership message said about Hydro, and what the Storting has already authorised the government, without triggering any provisions on the obligation to provide services. With regard to the value of the shares, I think the government has so much time on this and can do these transactions when it's best suited for us. I think it will have minimal significance for course development. So I don't think there's any big danger that we have to buy at overprice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e522	I'm glad the Council of State will spend a long time buying it, hopefully so long that others can avert it. Another question: the proposition is that you want to buy up, because by getting a higher share you can have a better influence on the general meetings, the likely choice of board members, a little depending on how many meet, and the effect on the dividend. It must mean reducing dividends, because there is nothing else that the general meeting can do. Is there any other reason why the Council of State wants to buy up to 39.9 pst. and defend the use of so many billion dollars, other reasons that I probably haven't seen?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e530	It's important to stress that we're not going to spend this money, we're going to invest it. I am quite sure that the representative is also aware of this. This is money that is going to yield like the other large capital that the state has. One of the reasons why it has been an advantage to have a higher holding than the third to be held for, for example: to secure the head office in Norway, we see exactly in this case. Because here we can do a big transaction, where we buy with payment in shares or with an issue, which waters down the state's ownership without going under 33 pst. Had we not had a holding that was well over 33 p.m., we had sold ourselves down at an earlier date, this transaction would have been more difficult to carry out with the aim of maintaining a third's ownership. There's an extra dimension in that it allows this kind of transaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e537	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4343]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e555	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, there be a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State post. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e564	We found it very nice that the opposition reads Soria Moria and makes suggestions on the implementation of measures that stand there – thus also today's case. There is a joint committee that is in agreement with Soria Moria and with the Minister of Industry that we should have a new ownership message. But this comes out with a slightly different wording, and the unity probably also stops there, because while the Right Party and the Progress Party are busy changing the whole ownership policy and selling ourselves down – possibly altogether – by a number of companies, we will continue to focus from the government party on an active and long-term ownership. It seems that the opposition is more busy in time than we are getting a thorough treatment. The progress party is most concerned that this is what they came up with first. So there's no doubt about what the government party has said about the content of a new ownership message, I'm going to page from Soria Moria: «In the next communication of ownership, the government will continue the follow-up to the corporate social responsibility work: ethics, the environment and the conditions of the leaders. Ownership policy shall continue to be based on the established division of responsibilities between owner and company and on the principles of sound ownership management. The aim is for companies in which the State is the owner to be the leader in its low-emission industry and in the development of climate-reduction technologies.’» These are the main lines that Soria Moria draws about the content of a big message. We will have plenty of opportunity to debate this content when this message comes to Stortinget. That's why we're not going into the content here today. We from the government party will give support to the Minister of Industry that one should spend the time needed for a thorough treatment, then bring the big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e580	I can comfort the representative Heggø that this is not all in the Soria Moria statement we disagree with – just so I've settled it. These are, in fact, single points that you can agree with. Norway needs a new ownership message following the policy pursued by the government since its accession, so that is an important point. But it's a little sad that you actually need the opposition to speed up the government's policy with a new ownership message. We're going to make sure that when we get the case dealt with here, we're going to take the big ideological debates on where we're going to be participants or not. It is quite clear that the undersigned and the representative Heggo disagree as to whether it is important that it is a State that owns the Flytrain. It's also important for me to make it clear that it's not necessarily a government problem, among other things. owning an air carrier. But we will come back to that when the matter comes. I expect this to be a relatively short debate. I just want to ask a question, which I hope the Council of State can answer in its article. Now we're one year out in period two for the red-green ones, and then the question I'm asking is this: When will we be able to get presented with such a message of ownership? Currently, and in several cases, the government has now shown that they have either changed their ownership position or at least given unclear signals. Sales, inter alia: in SAS is one of them. I can, among other things, refer to the case related to Hydro that we just had to deal with here. There are things that have now changed in relation to the old ownership message and government policy, and then it's okay that we get a new debate in this room. I would like to address that proposal in the vote that the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are behind, where we are asking for a new ownership message, by the spring of 2011. I hope the Council of State can at least give some signals, because it has relatively little to do with a new ownership message at the end of the ageing period. The knowledge is to bring this about as quickly as possible during the period, so that you know what you're dealing with, and what kind of policy will be pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e595	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e598	There is a strange input from the rapporteur on this matter – almost a criticism that it has only now been agreed with the red-greens on what is said in Soria Moria about ownership. That is not the way this proposal came about. In this way, repeated debates in this Chamber have asked for and claimed that a new ownership message is needed. It has simply had to be forced forward. And it's good that you've done it. The reason for this is that there have been a number of issues in which the Storting and the Committee have had to work urgently and the Storting hassle to give money – not to matters that have really been so very disagreeable, but there has been very little predictability. And that's business. The state is a major player in business, and things happen fast. For this reason, the treatment of ownership by the Storting should also be a little more frequent. And I'm very happy that the Council of State has figured this out. The active ownership, today renamed «industrial composition» with dissonances from the opposition, must also be shown in communication with the Stortinget. It's important. And when the rapporteur says that the opposition parties mean it and that and that about state ownership, that is, that it has to be reduced, that there are companies that we don't think we want to own, etc, that we have written in connection with the previous ownership announcement, that's right. But that is not what the discussion is about; that is not why we have promoted this proposal. We have promoted this proposal in order to know what the government parties and government think about this, precisely because there are still such issues – the SAS case, the Yara case was up, the Hydro case. The Council of State has, through statements, shown a very open attitude to ownership, and on one occasion I think he said that he had no Catholic relationship with either the one or the other, he would sell when it was good, and buy when it was good, while one of the government parties claims that the state must govern in a much stronger way through the general assembly, against actions in individual companies that one does not like for political reasons, or for programmatic reasons, to say so. That is why the Right, the Progressive Party and the Left have joined forces on this proposal. I believe that the little criticism from the rapporteur who has become our part is grounded. Criticism must be directed at the government parties. I think it is very justified to propose both a timetable and a deadline for this, and I hope that the Council of State will say something about it. I don't think you need all the world's time on this. It's about establishing some principles that can be used in the situations that appear.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e611	State ownership, as private ownership, must have the primary objective of contributing to the long-term value creation and industrial development of companies. This requires companies to be competitive over time. The State must design its ownership in such a way that this necessary assumption is not impaired. I would like to underline the importance of ensuring national ownership of strategically important companies. However, there is currently no overall policy on the level of involvement of the State in such companies, so that holdings vary from 34 p.m. to 34 p.m. in DNB NOR ASA to 67 pst. in Statoil ASA. At the same time, we see several weaknesses in the government's ownership policy and believe it is positive to review the state's ownership in the form of a big message. In its letter to the Committee of 4 June 2010, the Council of State does not announce when the work on a new state ownership notification is due to be completed and then, in the next round, submitted to the Stortinget. The Christian People's Party believes that it must be expected that this work will be completed by 2010, so that this message can be addressed in the Stortinget by the spring of 2011. We therefore propose, together with the Right and the Advance Party, to ask ‘the Government to promote the announced notification of state ownership by the spring of 2011’. The Christian People's Party is critical of the government's administration of state ownership. A pattern has been created with little predictability and random actions, which may weaken the confidence of the state as its owner. The Christian People's Party believes that the government has acted particularly critically in connection with the acquisition of Aker Holding AS and in connection with the sale of BaneTele AS to the Bredband Alliance AS. In addition, the government has shown a passive ownership of issues related to ethics and corporate social responsibility, including environmental considerations. This applies, inter alia, to: StatoilHydro's investment in climate-friendly oil sands in Canada. We ask ourselves the question: is the state earned to be a majority shareholder in a company that operates this type of risky and contentious activity around the world? And what are we going to do with this ownership, all the time when the state doesn't want to use its ownership to manage the company, for example. away from oil sand? Is it not at least time for ownership to be transferred from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the Ministry of Oil and Energy? Today's model owner is not lucky given that the Ministry of Oil and Energy also grants concessions. Corporate social responsibility also includes issues related to tax havens, which we have previously debated in this Chamber. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the government sets a good example in combating tax havens. In the Ecocrim Hearing Opinion of the Capital Flows Committee, the importance of the consistent and active fight against tax havens was underlined: «ECOCRIM will highlight the importance of consistency in the view of tax havens, so that we do not use the structures of tax havens when appropriate, while at the same time we are concerned with combating the adverse effects of the same structures.» The government should contribute to the failure of wholly-owned and state-owned companies to establish themselves in tax havens. The State that owns must set performance targets for long-term market returns in those companies in which it has primarily business objectives. However, this does not prevent the State that owns at the same time from clarifying the expectations that companies focus strongly on how to take into account, among other things. environment, migration, diversity, ethics, research and development can be followed up in the design of business strategies by companies. The Christian People's Party therefore meets with a review of these issues in connection with the announced call for proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e633	I see no reason to extend this debate further. There is a broad consensus and a desire in Stortinget to have a review of the state's ownership policy, and we will do so in a big message. I do not think the spring of 2011 is an unreasonable limit to this message. We're going to get it as soon as we've concluded and reviewed it in the government. But just to mention a point: although we have such a message of ownership at regular intervals, we have to be flexible enough to be able to deal with concrete situations that arise. A new ownership message will not be able to predict properly all the situations that arise. But having such a review and a broad discussion at regular intervals, I think is useful. And then we get to take the contents of it when we get to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e640	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e643	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for meeting us in terms of the time perspective. I think it's very positive that we can hopefully look forward to a discussion in the spring of 2011. Let's hope that's true. We all agree that you have to take the cases as they appear, it goes without saying. However, the Council of State also agrees that it may be useful to have as early a clarification as possible of the strategic aspect, how to exercise its ownership, etc.? Because we see that in things that go in the media today, among other things, where the State owns 99,9 pst. by a company, ownership may have been deficient, but it will show. So my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State agree that it is important that we have such a strategic review of ownership as early as possible in the period?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e650	I think that regardless of whether we have these broad reviews that a ownership message allows, it will, given that we get that spring 2011, come up with concrete issues both before and after we have to deal with, so it becomes a little independent of the timing of the notification. The most important thing is perhaps that the Storting has at some regular intervals such broad passages.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e656	I tried yesterday to figure out what happened to all of these companies we own from the state, in which we have shares, in 2009 – we're now halfway out in 2010. It wasn't that easy, actually, but I found a hidden half-yearly report from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. Then I fully agree with the Council of State that no matter what is going to happen in a new ownership message, there will always be a need for flexibility. But does the Council agree that a new ownership message might then suggest that the Storting is also a bit more continuously informed about development, so that we also have a certain sense of how things are going? We cannot know what is happening suddenly, but should be able to be something more up-to-date than getting information one and a half years after, when the owner's report for each year is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e663	I think we have quite an appropriate ownership management now. We're publishing an annual publication called the State Owners' Report, and I'm going to highly recommend the new version, which comes right around the corner now, and we're going to make sure it's not hidden away. Then, every year, through the state budget, when the dividend is to be referred and discussed in the Stortinget, you get an opportunity to follow the company's business, as well as the specific issues that are going on. So I think the form we have now, with a ownership message in addition to taking the strategic large lines, is a good form. But there is not so much that an owner should interfere with the company's ongoing operations. It is the board of directors and management that stands for, and therefore there are no current issues for the Storting, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e668	I would like to take this opportunity to address a specific matter, as an example where the Christian People's Party calls for the government's active ownership. This applies to DnB NOR. Here we believe that the government must use its power of ownership and ensure that the bank does not sanction the judgment that gives the small savers the right to compensation. One expects a high ethical standard, and we are amazed that the government is still silent when DnB NOR tries to avoid the responsibility for selling savings products in an unethical way. Is this the sole responsibility of the board, or should the government take the side of the small savers and give clear advice to the bank that they should not appeal against this judgment?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e675	No, the decision on appeals and legal proceedings about DnB NOR's activities is the company itself that manages. We spend a lot of time on ethical awareness and social responsibility in the companies in which the state holds holdings. We also use that commitment to private companies and want Norwegian companies to have a high standard, not least those with public ownership. But this kind of concrete decision we as owners cannot interfere. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance has regulations and rules on what kind of financial products can be offered, and we also have authorities and systems to monitor the credit market. So I think we get to use the regulatory activities that apply to all banks, and then the legal system might get to solve the concrete disputes that arise, in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e680	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4344]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e698	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 4344]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e714	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the insertion by the Minister for Foreign Affairs within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e723	Cooperation with Russia on nuclear safety challenges and the environment in the north must be described as a success story and has been going on since the early 1990s. The background to the establishment of this cooperation is the extensive activity of the Cold War, both civil and military, which causes significant amounts of radioactive waste and nuclear material to be unwarranted in North-West Russia. Of the nuclear installations in our neighbourhoods, Russian nuclear power stations are a major danger of radioactive contamination and health damage in Norway. A serious accident at one of these power plants may cause acute health damage in the vicinity of the plant, as well as long-term consequences in terms of, inter alia, radioactivity in the food chain at a distance from the power plant. As a result, nuclear preparedness and clean-up measures in the northern regions are very important for the protection of the population, the environment and other important societal interests against radioactive pollution. Over time, Norwegian efforts have concentrated around two main objectives: one is to help reduce the risk of serious accidents and radioactive pollution. The second is to help prevent radioactive and fissile material from drifting away. Norwegian efforts and cooperation with Russia have produced concrete results in the form of improved radioactive material security and waste management, and have not least made a significant contribution to the international non-proliferation agreement, while helping to ensure the environment and health of the population in the north. Since the establishment of the nuclear action plan in 1995, Norway has granted approximately 1.5 billion in the period 1995–2010. kr for nuclear safety measures. In recent years, appropriations have been between 95 and 100 million. kr annually with priority efforts within four main areas: the dismantling and replacement of outsourced nuclear submarines from the North Fleet of radioactive sources in fireworks and marine brands along the north-west Russian coast and on the Baltic Sea by solar technology infrastructure measures preparing for the securing and removal of large quantities of spent nuclear fuel at the closed service base in Andrejevbukta, approximately; six miles from the border with Norway, cooperation between Norwegian and Russian supervisory and administrative authorities. On this occasion, I would like to refer to the vote, where a joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence emphasises that we are satisfied with the results of the Norwegian effort in these areas and that this effort has contributed to increased efforts by the Russian side and the authorities of other countries. I would also like to emphasise that the Committee is also satisfied with the broad international commitment established to help solve the many cost-intensive nuclear problems in North-West Russia. It is also gratifying that the National Audit Office’s study on nuclear safety cooperation with Russia shows that Norwegian efforts have produced good results and that the funds have been used according to their intentions. It should also be mentioned that Norway and Russia have also set up joint parallel audits of projects, highlighting the extent to which cooperation has come. The Committee assumes that the Government will follow up the comments of the National Audit Office and improve the administrative procedures. Developing the good, but sometimes challenging, neighbourhood with Russia is a key objective of Norwegian foreign policy. The opportunities and challenges facing Norway in the north can also best be found in many areas in constructive cooperation with Russia. It is gratifying that this work bears fruit, and that a recent agreement was reached on the drawing of the borderline between Norway and Russia in the Barents Sea and the Arctic. This must be called a milestone in the development of a good Norwegian-Russian neighbourhood. Therefore, nuclear safety work is also a good example of how Russia and Norway have developed ever better cooperation to the mutual benefit of both parties. As far as the road is concerned, I would like to point out that the Committee agrees that Norwegian contributions beyond 2012 need to be more and more linked to administrative cooperation and cooperation on environmental monitoring and preparedness. In addition, we agree that Norwegian efforts need to be seen more internationally than in the past and preferably coordinated with the priorities of the other co-operation countries. It is therefore an overall committee that agrees that Norwegian efforts in the coming years will focus on the challenges of the Andreyev Bay, the completion of the fireworks projects, training and information actions in the nuclear sector and wide-ranging cooperation of authorities in the areas of supervision, preparedness, environmental monitoring and safety for workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e766	I can broadly agree with the conclusions that the previous speaker drew. The Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact represented a constant threat to Norway and other Western countries over more than 40 years after World War II. During this time the Soviet Union built up the world's largest military base on the Kola Peninsula. There were complete cases, with airports, cities of wreckage, ports, weapons arsenals of all kinds, workshops, power plants and civil support functions. When the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact were dissolved in 1991, an empire was destroyed. The 14 former Soviet republics that, in addition to Russia itself, became independent states in the early 1990s, were probably half the population of the old Soviet Union. The Eastern European countries of Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, East Germany, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria, which were part of this empire, have some. 100 million inhabitants. Of the old empire with more than 400 million inhabitants, the current Russia today has only about one million inhabitants. One-third, maybe 140 million. The extensive nuclear activity of the Cold War, both civil and military, causes significant amounts of radioactive waste and nuclear material to be unwarranted in North-West Russia. And it wasn't long before the authorities of the new democratic Russia cooperated with a number of countries to clean up the radioactive scrapheuver of communism. Russia’s two main players in this clean-up are the United States and Norway. Now, together with our new friends, we can complete the liquidation of the weapons arsenal that threatened us. Now we are involved in the processing of radioactive material, the dismantling of nuclear submarines, the destruction of chemical weapons and the employment of former weapons specialists. Norway has been responsible for the dismantling of five nuclear submarines that were part of the deterrent strategy of the Warsaw Pact in due course. In 2002, the G8 established ‘Global Partnership against the Proliferation of Weapons and Weapons of Mass Destruction’. Countries committed themselves to decommissioning 20 billion. dollars in 10 years, so that such measures can be implemented throughout Russia. Norway joined this partnership already in 2003 as the first non-G8 country and will contribute 100 million. euro over a 10-year period. By 31 December 2009, Norway has paid 80 million. euro. Both Norway and the other countries are committed to fulfilling their obligations. In the long run, it would be irresponsible to demand that Russia alone take care of this clearing work. Activities under the initiative of the G8 countries have been impressive, and Norway’s role has been — and will continue to be — important. Norway has already contributed a large amount, and it contributes to securing Norwegian territory in two ways. The huge weapons arsenal is being phased out, and the nuclear threat from nuclear weapons, nuclear-powered fireworks, nuclear submarines and poorly secured nuclear power stations is being reduced at a rapid rate. It is therefore definitely in Norway’s interest that this work continues. It is important that the government ensure that the necessary budgetary resources are made available in the years to come, so that this job can be completed. That being said, there is reason to focus a critical searchlight on the use of resources. The use of large financial resources in Russia always poses a risk of creating corruption. Our contributions must not replace appropriations that the Russians themselves would make anyway. We are at risk of the Russians releasing funds that can be used for refurbishment and new threats to Norway. It is important that the government has an alert look and be careful that the money is used in accordance with the purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e788	This is a major and important matter which both the previous speaker and the rapporteur have made a thorough comment. So the ratio is that we have the world's largest scrap pile right next to the Norwegian border up north, and there's not any scrap heap we're talking about. This is the world’s largest concentration of radioactive problem waste and nuclear material, partly in a so-called non-responsible environment, and in many ways still unwarranted. This is about the fact that, on the Norwegian side, but to a large extent also through international cooperation with Russia, we must seek to prevent new accidents caused by radioactive contamination from nuclear power plants. It's just as much about avoiding this waste going into the wrong hands, as this is a requested material. It is a waste that is also requested from terrorist organisations – we know that very well. It is also about having a long-term perspective in the work that you intend to do, and there is no doubt that in Gremikha and Andreyev Bays, developments on the Russian side must be seen in a 20-30 year perspective, where the aim is to secure and eliminate large quantities of spent nuclear fuel. It is also this work, as indicated in the opinion of the Committee, that Norway will give priority to this. In my opinion, there is no doubt that this is Norway's biggest and most important environmental issue. This does not always indicate that this is the way we prioritise, not economically, even though large Norwegian financial resources have been used. For example, just a tiny accident in and around these stores is enough to threaten the population in both a close and a distant environment. A very small accident will be enough to put the entire Norwegian fishing industry out of the market in wild fish. It is therefore necessary to give further priority to this work. I agree that the concept of corruption has been part of the debate. But I also think it is important that we establish that the work that has been done also has a successful story with it on the way. There has been considerable progress. There is no doubt that the number of irregular events, especially at the Kola nuclear power stations, is falling significantly. There is also no doubt that international attention and participation, among others. through the AMEC Agreement, Arctic military cooperation, has helped to obtain both technical, economic and international assistance in addressing this gigantic challenge. We also know that the G8 countries have put the perspective on the agenda of the Global Partnership against the Proliferation of Weapons and Material of Mass Destruction, also with special reference to the situation in North-West Russia. There is no doubt that not only Norway, but the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Italy, Japan and others have also contributed to this picture. In my opinion, it is also important to stress that the results have been very good in many areas, but it is still a long way to go before you can breathe and throw the exercise clothes. It is also important that every time in the dialogue you have with people in the north, also in view of the authority that the government exercises on a daily basis – and I do not doubt it – these questions are put on the agenda. Because it's the way to have challenges in the future, and I think maybe Russia, more than anyone else, and the people who live in these areas are aware of the threat this is. It has also ensured that Russia is now the biggest contributor to financing current projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e805	The government decided to promote this communication in order to get the very review that the committee's thorough setting has given us, and to anchor this knowledge in the Stortinget. This is probably one of the areas we talked about earlier, where Norway meets the world very much together. We have a major environmental challenge close to us, and we need to work together on the direction to get something done about it. I want to use the opportunity to praise the Norwegian radiation authorities, researchers and those who have followed this matter over time, for having held a bad course. As has been pointed out by several speakers, this is not a matter that is resolved with a ship's roof. It's demanding. We know that the danger of an accident is great, and a solid professional competence is required to carry out this work. I am pleased that there is a unanimous view that the significant funds we spend on this are well spent money, and I can assure the Storting that we have taken into account in detail the Riksrevision's reference to the importance of good administrative practice. However, I am pleased that the Riksrevision is clear that the work we have done in the north gives results, that one is clear that it does not seem that the money has gone astray, and that one is clear that our financing of the cleaning up of Kola has not benefited from upgrading. Because it is, of course, as the representatives Kristiansen and Myhre said, a challenge to deal with a state that is building both new and rusting up, while we are assisting in dealing with a safe development in the matter of disarmament. And so is the case, as the representative of Kristiansen says, that it is Russia that, after all, bears the greatest should be here. It was a moment of debate in Norway that we took the bill for disarmament here, while Russia was running with all sorts of other things. Well, Russia is doing a lot of other things, but they're also heavy in this area, and it's in our interest that they continue to be heavy inside. I am also pleased that the Committee emphasises the extent to which it is in Norway's interest to do this, and that we are using the cooperation for clean-up, environmental and nuclear cooperation in the north as part of our bilateral cooperation with Russia. It's also a way of building trust, and we're doing it together with other countries and so moving Russia into international cooperation. I would like to say, on behalf of the government, that the Riksrevision report, the thorough work of the Norwegian radiation authorities and the professional authorities and this attitude of the Committee provide us with a good basis for continuing cooperation. I think we're going to have to do that as long as there are challenges related to radioactivity and nuclear material in our neighbourhoods. One area shows that this can be built on, and it stimulates interest beyond our circle. It concerns the work of replacing these nuclear-powered batteries in the lighthouses around the Barents Sea, which was put into operation at an affordable price by the Bondevik II administration. We have continued and completed this work. We are now taking that competence with us to similar projects around the Baltic Sea. Norway and Finland are working with Russia. It shows that we can build on an experience that we have, and it is appreciated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e825	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e828	It is true, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, that there is a great deal of consensus that it is important to devote considerable resources to this very important work. But there have also been some criticisms of what has been done. It is set out in the Committee's opinion. I just want to refer to the two employees from the Fridtjof Nansens Institutt who in their book «North regions – what now?» claims that of 3 billion. SEK allocated to nuclear safety in the period 1993-2007 was only 1 billion. kr applicable. I just want to ask if this is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e835	I can't go well here for those numbers, so I normally have to show that we've explained the resource effort, we've explained the way resources are used, and we now have a national audit review of that use. So I think it is that in this area – as in some other areas – we need to be aware that there is no reference book to follow for how to have successful nuclear safety cooperation with Russia. There is an element of risk in it in the most serious sense, that there is dangerous material they handle, and the transfer of it to projects that can be implemented in a short time is not always easy. But there is also a risk in the sense that we should deal with a partner who is not used to cooperating in these fields. But I think this calculation sounds strange in relation to what we consider to be the results of the resource use we've had, and that the Riksrevision has now carefully looked at.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e844	On the same occasion, the same employees of the Fridtjof Nansens Institutt have claimed that the very important sewage treatment plant for liquid low-radioactive waste was never decommissioned. It is the radioactive material that is the main reason Norway is so heavily involved in this work. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether this low-radioactive liquid cleaning plant will be implemented, and why nothing has been done with it so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e850	It is true that the responsibility for these projects lies on the Russian side. We support the implementation of what Russia is doing. I think here I will limit myself to saying that for us, the work, which is an international collaboration to succeed in Andrejeva Bay in securing the material that is there and safe transport on, has had the main priority, and will continue to have it. It is based on broad international cooperation where different actors have shared responsibility for who does what and where we are in areas that are concerned with securing buildings and their likes. It is also important that we relate to Russian installations that do not meet the standards we believe are necessary in a realistic way. This means that we cannot wind them up overnight, but we will not help with our support to extend structures that are not safe enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e857	In some cases, Russian authorities have contributed, not directly, but indirectly, to Norwegian institutions such as State radiation protection, has had problems collecting daily data on measurements of any type and form of problematic pollution. We've seen that the Russian authorities have made sure to cut this daily opportunity to make measurements. Is this a situation with which the department is well known? Do you have a dialogue with the Russian authorities to ensure that Norwegian authorities will be able to follow potential pollution on a daily basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e864	I, here I am, don't have any knowledge that there's such a problem right now, but what Kristiansen' representative points to is, of course, a real problem all over Russia in terms of measurement. This also applies to our ability to measure emissions from the nickel works, such as the sulphur, SO2. This applies in all areas where a regular, civil, environmental measurement activity is normally envisaged. This applies not least at sea where the Russian procedures and the Russian security authorities have a very high threshold to accept it. I think we have to see this over a long period of time, and that, hopefully, evolution is heading towards getting enough confidence to agree on that kind of measurement. But what I can confirm is that when such problems occur, we take it into account in the channels we have available. The need for such cooperation to function smoothly was also a theme during the Russian presidential visit to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e874	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4344]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e894	Let me start with the first one. It is nice that it is suitable for both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the undersigned to take this interpellation, because it has been in the papers for quite a while. In this way I am pleased that we found space the day before the day. It is a topic that, in my opinion, is of particular importance to Norway, but also to those countries with neighbouring interests in the north. In the interpellation text, it says that the northern regions have an increasing focus on themselves, and it's going to be there for a long time. That means that it will give us some challenges, it will give us some opportunities, and it will give us some limitations because it will be attractive for many to get ready and find their position in terms of what's going to happen up there. For maritime transport, it's interesting, it's resourceful, and it'll probably also be a challenge in terms of ownership and responsibility for the nations that want to be involved in what's going to happen up there. There are many large and heavy players on the road. Norway, of course, Russia, guaranteed. Among other things, they have already shown it by placing their flag on the North Pole and asserting its ownership. Greenland and Denmark will have guaranteed interests there. The same will be true of the United States and Canada, and probably China, as a big and heavy trading player. In this way, it is important to take clear action from the Norwegian side, and that we are clear where we want to go. It is shown, among others: by also developing other countries and associations of countries to develop north-eastern strategies. I was at the NATO Parliamentary Association meeting in Edinburgh last autumn. The British ambassador to Norway was there and presented the British Northern Territory Strategy. I am aware that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is familiar with it, but it shows how important it is to others than to us. What we've kind of viewed as part of our domain is the other one that looks at and wants to be a participative factor in terms of what's going to happen there. Of course, there are also others who care about this, such as the International Maritime Organization, the IMO, which is an actor here, the Arctic Council, which will be guaranteed to be a driving force in what is to happen further. Coast Guard cooperation is likely to have implications for this as well, and there are international conventions on rescue and preparedness that will continue to be involved in the process. What is important is that there are many actors working, with different positions and at different levels, but everyone has a focus on the north and what is going to happen there. For my part, I believe increased presence will be a challenge. There are large areas, scattered people and with climatic conditions that will make it challenging for us. But it's the possibilities that drag us there. If this wasn't interesting, we probably wouldn't have had to have this debate, because then we would have gotten away from it. But with the new resources lying there, it becomes attractive. It will be in terms of maritime transport, and of course it will be in terms of tourism. What's common to all of this is that there's a calculated risk of moving in this type of area, which is going to give rise to the cost of being present, not only human, but also purely economic. Not least because of this, it is important to have a security that takes care of all those who need to be up there. Once again, IMO will probably be a central actor and also the Convention already in existence on rescue and preparedness. Furthermore, we in Norway are so lucky that we have a very good concept of rescue and preparedness. We have two main rescue centres that do an amazing job, and that – rightly so – have gained great recognition from the outside. I hope that we can build on them to develop the further strategy northwards. So I'm going to take the chance to draw attention to St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009, interests, responsibilities and opportunities, Main lines of Norwegian foreign policy, which I read in connection with this. It covers many important areas. It discusses the north, it discusses Afghanistan, and it discusses interaction with other organisations and other countries in a good and fine way. It says a lot about crisis preparedness, but it doesn't say anything about what is today the issue, namely rescue and preparedness in the northern regions. And since Norway wants to be a major player in this area, I would have thought, with all possible respect, that it might also be more important for the U.D. than what I can read per day that it is, if that big message still has a justification, and that is what I expect it to have. I believe that what is missing, and which we must address, is a clearer focus on our role, and whether the Norwegian concept should be further developed. As far as the sea areas are concerned, we need to clarify: what can we expect from the others, those who somehow become the parties up there? What can and should we expect of Russia, of the United States, of Canada, of Greenland, of Denmark? Since we all fence around that area, I expect that it must be a shared responsibility to have good solutions that allow us to move there and make good use of the resources that exist. I think that's the next thing we have to deal with. I also hope that the Foreign Minister in his reply can say something about how he intended to involve Stortinget in this, because if there is something I am sure of, it is that Stortinget is interested in this. The size is interested in the possibilities, but the size is not least concerned with the safety of all Norwegian women and men who are out doing a job, whether they are in Afghanistan, whether they are in Chad, or whether they are working on a platform in the North Sea – we are concerned with security. We are obliged to have the same focus on the development and use of the large resources that are likely to be located in the north. There is something that Stortinget guaranteed to support. My specific questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will, for the time being, be whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs agrees that we need to take a clearer approach to developing a common – generally internationally – rescue and preparedness for the north. I also hope that the Minister of Foreign Affairs can say something about how he perceives that the role of the Storting should be in this way. In addition, I could have thought, if the foreign minister finds it timely, that he said something about Svalbard's possibilities in this way. At my discretion, Svalbard has a logistics that few others have in this area, which might make Svalbard particularly suitable for being an Arctic rescue hub, to use a good Norwegian term. But Svalbard has at least assumptions that enable us to build on, assuming that it is acceptable for the other countries, and that it is timely and appropriate for us too. In this way, I look forward to hearing the Foreign Minister's answers to these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e917	Thank you to the interpellant for raising an important question, and thank you to the Storting for endurance, given that we are now getting this interpellant on the agenda before the summer vacation. These are important and concrete issues that concern the government, and of course this is an important issue for the Storting. We want to have a close cooperation with Stortinget on this. Let me just remind you that the last time I spoke actively about this, was in this house, in contact with arctic parliamentarians, so it's a matter that occupies many. Sea areas in the north have been difficult to reach due to thick sea ice. It's history. Climate change in the north is changing this picture. The summer season has strongly retreated over the past thirty years. It can disappear completely within the middle of our century. However, wintertime will be ice, but thinner and easier to break. Therefore, it is natural that more people focus on the extended opportunities for economic activity in petroleum research, fisheries and shipping. In the next decades — yes, perhaps even in a shorter time — this may lead to increased economic activity in the Arctic. In the case of commercial shipping through the Arctic Ocean, transport, for example: from Japan to Europe, could contribute to significantly lower fuel costs and fewer freight days. You're talking about 40 pst. reduced sailing time. But at the same time: I think we should listen to the signals from industry and other key actors about just the uncertainty about this transport. The costs associated with ice classification are large. The darkness in winter, the danger of ice-down of ships and significant insurance premiums are other uncertainties. And not least, regularity, which is important for too much transport, will be weakened. In sum, this means that the uncertainty of using the Arctic Ocean as a regular major transport year between east and west is so great that it will hardly happen to the very first. But when that is said, we see that more actors are investigating these possibilities. We remember the picture last year of two German merchant vessels sailing the northeast pass the other way, accompanied by Russian icebreakers. I would like to briefly remind you of the svalbard message, St.meld. No 22 for 2008-2009, as the government announced last year. There we mentioned increased activity in the Arctic as an important topic, and it was clearly mentioned in the Committee's position and in the debate in the United Kingdom. I will not repeat it now, but Svalbard was duly affected. In the context of rescue, the Arctic is an area characterised by long distances, a demanding climate and relatively few rescue resources — in other words, a very big challenge. Three aspects are therefore central: Firstly, accident prevention: strict maritime safety requirements are needed to reduce the risk of accidents and acute contamination. Secondly, rescue cooperation is essential for optimal use of the resources available to rescue those in need as quickly as possible. Thirdly, the industry must take its own precautions. No matter how much resources are spent on rescue services, the time factors and distances make certain actions nearly impossible. In other words, the centre is rescue cooperation and accident prevention. Let me just say very briefly to the interpellant that there are several departments affected here. In fact, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not operationally responsible. I will not go into it, but both the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Defence, etc. is responsible. In the document ‘New building blocks in the north’, the government stated that it would strengthen surveillance, preparedness and maritime safety in the northern sea areas. In this year’s state budget, this area of activity is being followed up by a series of measures to strengthen preparedness for pollution and accidents, including: by strengthening the competence of the Coastal Works, strengthening the North draft boat preparedness, continuing the allocation of oil protection equipment in the north, and research cooperation related to oil protection in difficult climatic conditions. In addition, we have started work on the establishment of a comprehensive monitoring system for the northern seas, called ‘BarentsWatch’. Although the Polish international legal framework is in place — with the law of the sea — new challenges can create the need for further development in relevant areas. Norway attaches great importance to the further development of the regulatory framework for polar shipping. Central in this context is the ongoing work of the International Maritime Organisation, the IMO, to which the interpellant points, for the development of a binding regulation for the polar regions, the so-called Polar Code, to replace the present slightly more non-binding guidelines. On a proposal from, inter alia: Norway has agreed on the principles to be followed in this work and Norway is now leading the process of drafting this new legislation. The purpose of the legislation will be to increase the safety of Arctic and Antarctic shipping through, for example: stricter requirements for the design and equipment of ships, navigational equipment and crew skills. The Polar Code is assumed to be completed in 2012 and will then be binding through the Convention on the Safety of Life at Sea, known as SOLAS, and/or the Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, called MARPOL. Since shipping in the northern regions is operated by ships of different flags, we need an international code that applies to everyone. The development of new legislation must therefore be done through the IMO. Norway has been, and is still, one of the drivers of this important work, together with a number of other Arctic countries. I myself raised the matter with the Secretary-General of the IMO, whom I met in London in February, and I also discussed this issue with my colleagues from the United States, Russia, Canada and Denmark when we – the five coastal states around the Arctic – met in Ottawa on 29 March this year. We all agree that this work must be given priority. As a coastal State, Norway has clear obligations under international law in terms of search and rescue. Under the Convention on the Law of the Sea, each coastal State shall endeavour to establish, operate and maintain a satisfactory and effective search and rescue service. To this end, countries shall cooperate with neighbouring countries through regional arrangements where circumstances so require. These wordings show that the law of the sea gives us clear guidelines. The obligations of the coastal States are also clarified in the Convention on International Civil Aviation, the so-called Chicago Convention, and in the IMO Convention on Maritime Search and Rescue, the SAR Convention. A number of search and rescue agreements have been concluded between Norway and neighbouring countries. The five coastal states around the Arctic Ocean expressed an intention in the Ilulissat Declaration of May 2008 to strengthen the search and rescue capacity of the Arctic Sea through multilateral cooperation. At the ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council in Tromsø in April 2009, it was decided – in the light of the prospects for increased activity in the Arctic – to set up a working group to conclude, by 2011, an agreement between Canada, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Russia, Sweden and the United States on search and rescue in the Arctic. The purpose of such an agreement is to establish a better regional organisation of search and rescue in the Arctic and to divide the Arctic into appropriate national search and rescue regions to clarify the division of responsibilities between the Arctic States. So far, there have been three rounds of negotiations in Washington, Moscow and now last in Oslo, last week. There is good progress in the negotiations and a great deal of agreement between the Arctic countries to strengthen the Panarctic rescue cooperation. We hope it will be completed for the Arctic Council of Ministers in 2011. It will be the first binding legal instrument completed by the Arctic Council. We must remember that an agreement on search and rescue will not respond to all the challenges of increased traffic in the Arctic. The time factor is often critical. Long distances may make it impossible to reach the emergency site in time. This means that we need to focus on the industry's own responsibility and that the industry itself needs to take its own precautions. The IMO has developed guidelines for shipping in waters with few life-saving resources and large distances, such as the polar regions. It is recommended, inter alia, that: ships of two and two crews to assist each other in the event of an accident. Norway currently has a relatively large responsibility for search and rescue in the north. Responsibility involves coordinating rescue operations by using available resources near the location of the incident and sending out specific rescue resources such as: rescue helicopters. Norwegian rescue service is recognised internationally. The main rescue centres are currently coordinating many rescue operations, including in distant waters far beyond Norway’s competence. In many cases, Norwegian rescue helicopters operate well into both Russian and Danish/Greenland areas of responsibility. This shows that Norway is a central player in search and rescue in northern waters, and it shows that we are able to handle a greater area of responsibility than we have today. New rescue helicopters will result in a qualitative improvement in the helicopter service and will ensure increasing traffic in the north areas. In Longyearbyen, two rescue helicopters are permanently stationed. Helicopters of the employed person carry out between 50 and 60 search and rescue operations and ambulance missions. Together with the life-helicopters of the 330 squadron, the employed person constitutes an important means of rescue on Svalbard and in the adjacent sea areas. I agree with the interpellant that Svalbard is a great resource that we will think carefully about when we plan our capabilities. So I'd like to mention the Defense Helicopters and say that by increasing activity in the Arctic, Longyearbyen could be of greater importance as a base for rescue and pollution preparedness. As mentioned, this is recorded in the swallow barn message. In addition, the defence's other resources, including the Coast Guard, represent important rescue resources in the northern regions. To sum up, increased activity — as the interpellant takes up in a commendable manner — contributes to increased pressure on Norwegian rescue resources. We have rights in the north, but we also have a great responsibility, and we have to take this seriously. We have a clear interest in negotiating a new agreement for search and rescue in the Arctic. The aim is to improve the regional organisation of search and rescue and to strengthen practical cooperation in the region. I look forward to close contact with the Storting about this work with Norwegian eyes, and the completion of the important work that has been started in the Arctic Council. Together with new and strengthened and binding rules for polar shipping, this will contribute to increased safety for new activity in the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e982	I thank the Council of State for a good and positive response, which I very much appreciate. Then it is tempting to say that everything is on the rails, and that there is no reason to worry. Now, reality isn't necessarily always this way, even though it's described positively, that it's equally positive for those who are directly affected by it. I am pleased that the Council of State points out the quality of the Norwegian rescue service, because it is very good, and there are very many who come to Norway to learn about how we do it. It's in itself a quality that we have and that we're going to take care of and develop further. At the same time, I also agree with the description from the foreign minister of our rescue helicopters, although it is a fact that they are up to 40 years old, and that it has been recommended that they should have been replaced for the longest time. So they're a resource, I agree, but they're a resource with clear, clear constraints. In this way greetings at least the undersigned, and more with me, welcome the day we can get something new in place. I am concerned that the government in this case has opened up to wait until 2020. I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is now saying that consideration is being given to having the Arctic Council finalise an agreement on enhanced cooperation in 2011. If this is the case, it concludes with a breakdown of the areas, and Norway gets more responsibility than we have today, yes, then the Foreign Minister and the government have a key challenge in terms of rescue helicopter capacity. Our Sea King's are old and bad, and we have a problem with flying ability, because it's getting fewer and fewer who use them, and because the access to parts is getting smaller and smaller. I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is addressing what is happening at Svalbard. Svalbard is at my discretion a possible, future key for an Arctic SAR-hub up there. In my opinion, those who run the rescue service at Svalbard do a job that is at least as good as that done in 330. Overall, these two qualitative services are organisations that are in a way the backbone of our rescue services. I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is constantly addressing this in all the forums where it is useful to bring it up. I also hope that this matter is so important that we can hurry quickly. I hope we can manage to get things in place before there's an accident up there. There have been accidents before. There have even been cruise ships that have gone due outside Svalbard, which led to a very large rescue operation once – as it did at the time well. It wasn't the loss of human life. At the same time, we know that the sea areas up there take human life annually, and greater activity will lead to even more pressure on the resources we have available, and the risk of loss of human life will increase. In this way, I really just want to say that I look forward to the fact that all the good things the Foreign Minister said are concrete, and that they come to the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget can participate in taking the debate further and putting its mark on a service that is important, and that in the future will become even more important than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e995	Let me just think about how our state system works. I believe that Stortinget is absolutely doing his job by the interpellant taking this up. It is also putting pressure on and getting insight into the government's work, and I want to say that I value it. Can we get everything in place before an accident happens? It's not possible to stand on a pulpit and say yes to that question, but we recognize the challenge that is here. We agree with other coastal states that this is a task we need to look at in cooperation, but also for each of us. Now the interpellant asks detailed questions about rescue helicopters, also questions that are not my responsibility. But let me say on behalf of the government that in the setting of the swallowing message, and in other budgets, we've focused the helicopter case quite systematically. One thing is the general effort on rescue helicopters made in Norway through, for example: the establishment of new base in Florø, over 200 million. kr in strengthened budgets for this year, and the work being undertaken, with extensive investigations, in order to acquire new rescue helicopters. It's true, as the interpellant says, that it's ten years to 2020, and if you could have pinched your fingers, it could have been nice to have a whole new park now. We're not going to underestimate the capabilities of the helicopters we have, and the crews that lead them, but it's a systematic job, and it's going to be very thorough investigations – because the investments are big – to get it in place – phased in, done by 2020. Our neighbouring countries also focus on this. Iceland participates in the Norwegian procurement process. I think that's timely. The United Kingdom has established a procurement programme. Denmark has introduced large long-range rescue helicopters on all its bases, and Canada is about to do the same. But at the same time, we must not believe that with helicopters alone, regardless of size, we will be able to deal with an accident with, for example. a cruise ship, or a tanker. So I think this shows the complex context of multiple dimensions, from not least prevention, industry's responsibility, polar code for how to sail in the polar waters, how the ships are equipped, the idea of sailing two and two, for example, to the state building what I would call realistic and timely capacity to operate search and rescue. It will have to balance. The areas are so huge that it is not possible to cover every square kilometer with a fast call-out time. But it opens up a new agenda here, which we have to tackle. Let me just repeat at last what was also in the post from the interpellant: Svalbard is very important here. We have a very important principle for our rescue service, namely the cooperative principle, which means that many units work together, volunteering, public, but also now between national and international partners. It's important principles to take further into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1008	It is important to discuss the increased activity in the Arctic, so I want to welcome such discussions on an ongoing basis. It is clear that, in the case of ship traffic, this has long been strongly increasing. These include: related to the tourist traffic around Svalbard, and also to the melting process. It's also prescribed in the future that there will be an increase in activity. The majority had a thorough debate on this in connection with the government's swallowing report in spring 2009. There were several dimensions that were set out there, but also in the Northern Region Strategy, the action that needs to be taken in the future and that is being carried out to the greatest extent. But as the interpellant Ellingen asked the question, it was really: what is Norway's role, and how is it affected by international agreements such as the SOLAR and SAR conventions? It's important. The policy is precisely that it is international cooperation, and the international agreements – in a broad sense – that really need to make the driving rules ahead. For Norway, it is important that all, including those concluding the agreements, respect the law of the sea, and that the law of the sea should also apply in this area, to the greatest extent. And if, or when, the time comes for international shipping to open up traffic across the north areas also at different time intervals than we have today, for example. summer time, the International Conventions, SOLAR and SAR, and other legislation agreed upon by the International Maritime Organisation, the IMO, must apply in these sea areas. There is already work to develop new and binding rules for the polar regions, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also stated. Replacing today’s non-binding guidelines with a new polar code in a Convention on the Safety of Life at Sea and the Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships is an important part of the work that is also being asked by the interpellant. Work to strengthen these conventions to also cover the specific conditions of the Arctic is central — and it will always be in the future — to prevent accidents and accidents. Of course, the industry itself must also take its own precautions. It has the primary responsibility for ensuring the best possible security, life and environment in the area. Norway, together with the other countries that have coastlines to the Arctic, has a special responsibility in terms of search and rescue services and surveillance. In these areas, the rescue helicopter base on Svalbard and the Coast Guard will be the crumbs of such an arrangement. I also believe that the government, through its north-eastern policy, has done a great deal to strengthen preparedness for accidents and environmental damage. We have also discussed this in other contexts, and as the Foreign Minister said, there are other departments here too, areas that must take a very large part, not least the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment, in relation to the increased activity on the oil and gas side. We have had several discussions about the towing gear. After all, it must be strengthened to the greatest extent, and also oil protection. And when it comes to oil protection, there has to be a lot of research to do, so that that preparedness can be in line with the severe weather conditions in the different seasons you're going to operate in this area. Here, the precautionary principle must be fully founded. Now it's on the stairs with the renewal of the rescue helicopters, so I don't go into it anymore. The working group set up at the Arctic Council ministerial meeting also mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs will also play a central role here in the future. An equally important issue is related to the upcoming oil and gas activities. We already have Snow White and Goliath, and the extension of the Shtokman field will probably also come, even if it has stopped a little bit now. But there is no doubt that on the Russian side there will be great activity on the base. So here, there has to be organisation and prevention, and international cooperation has to be snorted in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1027	Insurance and class societies have observed an increase in the number of worldwide shipbuilding accidents. The coastal works are concerned about the accident development of ships in coastal waters. At a talk that I attended in the Maritimt Forum on October 26, 2009, I pointed out, among other things. the coast manager that there were more than 100 base bumps along the Norwegian coast each year. An increase in maritime traffic is expected in the coming years — and a particularly strong increase in oil and gas activities in the northern regions. In addition, there is an increased interest in maintaining a commercial shipping service through the Arctic Sea, either by revitalising the northern sea route or by a new transpolar direct route. There is therefore a need to look at possible measures to improve maritime safety and the ability to provide assistance to ships in distress in the northern sea areas. The Progress Party has for a long time highlighted the importance of increasing maritime safety in Norwegian waters and in northern areas. Maritime safety in the north is a major challenge, not just for Norway, but for all Nordic countries, including Russia. Using the East-West pass, a transport from the Far East to Europe will allow more than 30 pst. faster than the current route, as the minister also mentioned. The shipping company Beluga has already used the route in the summer. The northern regions are international waters, so it is a responsibility for all Nordic countries and not least for Russia to make the northern sea route safe and implement proactive measures, such as monitoring. It can also be mentioned that there have been accidents with cruise ships, and the Council of State also mentioned, as was also said at the safety conference I was at, that for safety reasons, it is desirable that ships should go two or two. Because it's clear that if a ship with hundreds of people goes down, it doesn't help either way to bring one or two rescue helicopters. That's not enough to take them out. So what I'm going to encourage the council here is actually maybe going in and trying to create a code that says the ships are going to go two and two, and you might be proactive about an accident. It is also very positive what has now happened to BarentsWatch, because the surveillance has been bad north of Svalbard. But with BarentsWatch, surveillance will now increase and help make security better there. When maritime emergencies occur, there is a need to be prepared to act to save lives and protect property. It's important. It is also a task for all countries in the Barents region to take responsibility for the safe transport of goods by means of a new sea route through the Arctic Sea and in such a way as to be able to maintain overall maritime safety and oil protection in an emergency. This is important. This requires cooperation across countries. This can only be done with a global political framework. The government must take this challenge seriously and bring together all countries in the Barents region, including Russia. It is very important to include Russia in this as well. I am also aware that the Swedish Coast Guard Agency, the Norwegian Shipowners' Association and the Maritime Forum in the North have launched a project to improve maritime safety along the Norwegian coast, and especially in the northern regions. I ask – and hope – that the government follow this up and, if necessary, grant what is to be done. I have also raised the matter in the Nordic Council, and we have brought it up in the nutrition committee there. The other Nordic countries are very positive to join. So here, it's important to press to get an overall setup to get better security in the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1053	First, I have to be allowed to give honor to the interpellant, who has raised an important topic. Although time has passed, the northern regions are still in existence. So the time is equal to the time. Norway’s role in north-eastern policy is only becoming more important and important in several areas. Earlier today, we discussed the issue of nuclear weapons in North-West Russia. Another equally important issue will be Norway’s role in cooperation with the western Nordic countries. Iceland, the Faeroe Islands and Greenland are for us three neighbouring countries with many conflicting and cross-cutting interests with Norway: common maritime areas, common challenges in climate policy and quite equal positions with respect to the EU. In addition, we have common history and much the same culture. Norway can – and will or will not – take a leading role in the policy of the north, from the western Nordic countries. As far as marine research is concerned, Norway's efforts in a completely different league from those of the countries we are talking about here. We also have – measured against them – the right to most of the fishing resources, and we have a long maritime history, which is important in this context. Politically, our experience in negotiating and complying with international agreements is also of great importance. So we're big brother for once! The Western Nordic countries are working these days on the EU's refurbished fisheries policy. Both Faroe Islands, Greenland and Iceland show that they see Norway as a more important and better partner than the other Nordic countries. This is justified by the fact that Norway understands better the importance of fisheries and sustainable management. A conference on fisheries management between the Western Nordic countries last week therefore informally discussed the experience of these countries with the EU. The picture is not different from what we often experience from Norway. It can often be challenging to gain an understanding of what in the EU seems like special Nordic considerations. Norway, together with the other Western Nordic countries, can create a good alliance in the areas that are common to us. I am painfully aware that Iceland may sometimes seem to be using coma as its foremost tool in briefing itself internationally. But it is also the case that sometimes in the debates in Norway we get the impression that it can be a nice weapon. I would nevertheless like to remind you that Norway's relationship with Russia is built on long-term relations between peoples, and it is also such that there are good people-to-people relations between Norway and the Western Nordic countries. Good regional work is claimed to be a good tool for understanding globalisation. In my view, increased understanding of globalisation is extremely important in order to create positiveness and development in Norway. Good regional work is absolutely technical cooperation projects between several countries, which have been mentioned earlier by the interpellant. Research, environmental protection, business practice and rescue are all good venues for building good regional cooperation, which will be important in the wider history.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1068	Northern areas are becoming increasingly important. Therefore, the Government Declaration also states that the needs of the northern regions should be dimensional to the Norwegian defence structure and that the northern regions are Norway's main strategic focus. The government statement reflects Norway’s high attention to increased activity in the north. It will require more of us as regards the protection of human life. Authorities have an important role to play in contributing to maritime surveillance and security. It is the task of the Storting to ensure that civil society and defence are able to meet this need at all times. Upgrading with new rescue helicopters will be a very important contribution in the long term. The presence and sailing day of the Coast Guard will become more important. Today's interpellation reminds us that the tasks to be performed by the authorities can become both more complex and demanding. Climate change, ice melting and technological development will have a major impact on the interest and activity of the northern regions. But we still don't know how new focus and activity will be expressed. And in the evaluations that are made, a portion of autility has to be taken into account. Too strong a clondy mood is no one's worth. Researchers point out that the melting of ice in the Arctic Sea will not necessarily provide new routes for international shipping. Maybe it's unrealistic, or at least there's something further into the future. Iris ratios change all the time, and half the year the route will be closed. With the ash clouds in a fresh memory, it is also not difficult to accept that nature takes its own roads. We do not fully understand the extent of natural resources nor the challenges associated with their potential exploitation. The ability of humans to balance pioneering and innovators and to lead the world and protect a vulnerable environment can be crucial. The northern regions may have great opportunities, but we must never forget that these are vulnerable and, at the same time, very sensitive natural areas. The interpellant addresses matters relating to safety of life at sea and search and rescue, the SOLAS and SAR Conventions. Good international cooperation requires that we continue to upgrade our ability and knowledge so that we can constantly offer a modern rescue service. At the same time, it is equally important to contribute to increased knowledge of the Arctic, the other northern regions, nature and the environment, and to contribute to an international cooperation climate that limits nature and vulnerable human lives. The most serious challenge for ensuring safety at sea in the northern regions will be whether the area is exposed to an economic race, either in the exploitation of natural resources or in the form of highly efficient transport routes, without adequate safety. Agreement on the Barents Sea divider is a historic milestone which can also mean increased opportunities for cooperation and sound management. Equally important may be the clarification of authority issues in the Arctic. Norway, Russia, Denmark, Canada and the United States are central nations. Finally, I have full confidence that the government has the necessary focus on the questions we are discussing today. I think Norway's main message internationally must be to go ahead to get the best possible knowledge and to help put respect for nature – and the limitations that should be put there – at the top of the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1089	Let me start by saying that I join part of what the previous speaker said, that the challenges are probably going to be bigger than we expected. I think that's for sure. Besides, I think there are two dimensions that are important here. One is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has focused most on, the overall one, which is about getting into internationally committed cooperation. It's probably the key to success in that way. Then there has been a discussion about resources, resource use and opportunities. I actually think it's going to be much bigger activity in the north. I even think that someone is going to take a risk of acquiring resources. The challenge is that we don't end up in a situation like the one we see in Mexico now, and as we've seen in other contexts, that we don't have enough tools in place. Then of course you can say that you'll never get good enough tools. But the question is, are we allowed not to have that focus? Now, of course, the answer is, no, we're not allowed to do that, because it's going to affect all those who haven't chosen to be part of this, but who indirectly become victims of what might happen. I therefore hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is right when he focuses on the ambition of Norway to achieve good and committed cooperation internationally. Then we have to assume that the same nations are actually able to put in place the tool that is needed to ensure security. On Monday this week, the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee held several debates. In one of its speeches, the Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed the economic situation in Europe in terms of stability and security. Now, when we talk about national and international responsibility, the same factor is going to enter into it. Can we predict that other countries have financial resources that are good enough to do what we expect in terms of rescue and rescue cooperation? Norway is in a unique position. We have the possibilities, and we should do it, but we have a discussion about flying with 50-year-old rescue helicopters. We can afford to get new, but we can't decide when this is going to happen. We've shifted the time again and again. That's what I think is bad, because it affects the reputation of all the good people who work in the rescue service every day. So it says something about how we value all those who do the job of getting values for our society, those who work along the coast or within the coast, who trust that if something gets difficult, there's going to be a rescue service. When we discuss here the future of e.g. rescue services and rescue helicopters, I think it's a petty debate. We're discussing moving because it's too expensive the way it is today, but what we're really talking about is how we appreciate and take care of those who do the job outside, and who get us wealth and values, which the Storting afterwards with great joy benefits around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1106	I think this debate essentially reached a broad consensus on how we approach these questions. That's good. I think we are wise to maintain close contact between government and greatness, so that we can act with common front and common arguments in the fields we actually agree on in many international councils and organisations. Then I'll tell the representative Ellingen that I'll be careful to speak down our reputation in this area. We have a good reputation for search, rescue and management in the northern waters. So it is that all equipment used in this area, whether it's about defence or civil capabilities, is subject to excessive wear and need to be regularly updated and replaced. We're in the cycle of it, and we're going to take it very seriously. Then the representative Ellingen had a reference to the economic situation in Europe. I have thought in several debates here in the Chamber that there is such an important development – such a worrying development – that it will have an impact on all policy areas. That's how our societies are connected. But when it comes to responsibility for search and rescue, I think we just have to be aware that it's ours, and just ours, in the areas for which we're responsible. Such a poor economy in a country south of Europe cannot be an excuse for not taking our responsibilities within the competence of the coastal state. What this legal instrument, as we say in the Arctic Council, which is now being negotiated for search and rescue, is precisely to clarify, is where the limits go for responsibilities. And it's clear that the area that then concerns Norway will be our responsibility. But to give the representative right in the analysis, it is, as I pointed out, so that the cooperative principle, which we now have to include, means that we must work closely with those countries that are responsible up to the limit for which we are responsible – from their side. In conclusion, I would like to say that this interpellation was addressed to me, but it was about many instruments that sort under other governments. I still thank the interpellant for giving me the opportunity to respond to it, because this is a cross-sectoral part of Norwegian foreign policy that we in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are taking most seriously. And as I've said on some occasions, in the five years I've had the honour of being responsible for foreign policy, this is the field that's most on its way up, and that reflects more and more areas of what's important for Norwegian foreign and security policy. And in this way, the two debates we have had here this morning, both on nuclear safety across the border with Russia and the ability to deal with the major challenges in the marine areas in terms of search and rescue, have in a timely way taken the pulse of what is important for Norwegian foreign and security policy today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1118	So the debate is on case No. 5 ended. The size has now come to case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objections have been raised against the President's proposal. It shall then be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1140	No one has asked for the floor. The size has now come to case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4344]] The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objections have been raised against the President's proposal. It shall then be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1164	It is not much to say about this matter. It is a unanimous committee that supports the vote to adopt the Government's proposal for new rates. But, as you can see, the majority of the committee has gathered on some comments and a proposal for a decision precisely because it is natural to see these discussions in a wider context. There has been, and is, a continuous discussion about increasing the financial compensation for those under protection and also about other state-of-the-art measures. There are fewer and fewer first-time providers. More importantly, the majority believe that the service must be relevant, competent and give each soldier a fair financial compensation. The payroll was completed on 27 May. The matter was raised by the Committee — it was referred to the State Council on 11 June. This means that there has been a complete summary examination in the committee. It has been accepted by the Committee, precisely because it is important that the provision be made in order to increase the remuneration of the guardians. But I still think it's somewhat worrying that this type of case is coming so late -- precisely because it would have been interesting, both for the committee and the government, to have a broader discussion on the issues raised here. That is why the majority of the committee has tabled a proposal for a decision, which I would recommend.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1175	Only some comments on the proposal for a decision of the majority of the Committee. There is a broad consensus that it is important to achieve measures that increase the status of the implementation of the protection obligation. We had an interpellation debate about this in the hall not long ago. It is a sample that has made a number of suggestions. Many of them are followed up. The most expensive proposal is just raising the daily allowance. As the sample proposal is, we're talking about an annual cost of about 400 million. kr, if you take with you the strength of the Home Guard. We are about to close the implementation of the consolidation of the long-term plan, which requires resources, and so others of the proposals have been prioritised to raise the status. Now I am not going to prejudge tomorrow's debate, but since the vote is off, we know that there is also a need for more funding from some parties for the defence that goes in other areas than this. In addition, let me say that there has been a significant real wage development for those under protection in the last ten years. There has been an increase in the sum of 421⁄2 pst, and with a price increase in the same period of less than 20 pst, it's actually a real wage increase of 23 pst. So it's not like we haven't implemented measures in this area as well. I understand that it may be tempting to be a little loose with money that you don't have to find for yourself in the budgets – as it approaches the sun and summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1190	It's not meant to prolong any debate here. But if the representative Svein Roald Hansen had read the proposal for a decision that the majority advocates, then it is not a question of the release of money. We ask the government to come back to the Storting in an appropriate way with a review of the economic status of protected persons during and after the initial service, in particular as compared to those who do not provide the initial service, because it is seen that there are so many differences here and that it is not economically enough for some to carry out the initial service. So it's not money. It's about money in this game. It is a proposal that the government will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1197	I can assure the representative that I have read, not only the proposal, but also the comment and the reasons for the proposal. It says, among other things: ‘Give each soldier a fair financial compensation’. I think that the leaders here, at least for those who would enjoy a lift, feel like being quite clear in what direction this is going to go. And I didn't say «freedom», I said «a little looseness».
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1204	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4345]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1220	This matter is about one of the most fundamental Biggest actually does, namely to verify that decisions taken in the Storting are followed up by the Government. So far, the Committee agrees that this is the issue. The Committee also agrees that the legislative decision, with effect from 16 February 2007, has not been implemented. But the political conclusions to be drawn from it distinguish majority and minority. I'm not able to explain the minority's reasoning or conclusions, so I'm going to leave that to representatives of the minority in the committee, i.e. the government parties. But the majority actually believe that it is the government's duty to take decisions. If it does not, it should immediately inform Stortinget through a legislative proposal asking for deferred implementation. It's constitutional practice in Norway. This has been the case as long as parliamentaryism has existed. That is why there is the following proposal for a decision by the majority of the committee, which I recommend: ‘The report states that it is critical and unfortunate that Stortinget’s legislation of 1 February 2007 on the encryption of health records (Besl. O. No 52 [[2006-2007]] I have some problems understanding the minority's reasoning when you don't actually say any criticism at all, hardly enough in notes, that the law decision has not been implemented. The second part of the issue concerns the question of how to define encryption. After all, encryption is intended to be part of privacy, so that the register cannot be misused and that it should be a restriction on access to the registers, including at individual level. To say it a little popular: it's not just useful to lock the register in a drawer and leave the key to the boss, and hope that he doesn't let too many in, because you get access to that register, you get access to – if you want to check out one person, for reasons that are obvious – to sit and watch the entire register. If it's encryption, it's zero worth privacy. That is why Stortinget asks ‘The Government shall submit the question of the choice of encryption solution to the Central Health Registers of the Storting in an appropriate form’. Why this proposal? Well, obviously there's a disagreement between the department and the Stortinget about what a satisfactory encryption is. I am very surprised that not least parties such as the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, which in other matters – understand as the Data Storage Directive – stress that they are particularly concerned with privacy, are not concerned that the Storting should be able to define the satisfactory privacy of health records. Because with respect to reporting, there is certainly information in the health records that is somewhat more sensitive than about who I have called, and how long calls I have had on my mobile phone or – similarly – on other citizens' cell phones. So this is sensitive information. The Storting has taken a law decision. The law decision on encryption was in its time an initiative from the then Swedish wholesale representative for SV, Ballo, but got broad support in Stortinget, I would almost say unanimously. Although the majority of the committee — which was then the minority in the United Kingdom, and still is — had a somewhat stricter definition of encryption, the consensus was that encryption should take place. There is now a disagreement between the Ministry of Data Protection and the Ministry of Health about what is a satisfactory encryption. For this reason, we believe in the majority – the opposition in Stortinget – that it would have been reasonable if the Stortinget had simply had a new debate on what is satisfactory encryption. This will not be done by people who are concerned with the privacy of the SV and the Central Party – if they do not change their opinion and vote in favour of II, i.e. the proposal for a decision I have just quoted. There can then be a suspicion that the fight against the Data Storage Directive is a fight for and against the EU, more than a fight for privacy. That suspicion is reinforced if the treatment of this case is outlined in the suspension. So back to the question of why not implement the law decision. Our criticism is twofold. There is both a criticism that the 2007 decision has not been satisfactorily followed up, and there is a criticism that the Stortinget has not been informed that the Stortinget Act has not been implemented with immediate entry into force. First to the former: only after a year and a half does the Minister of Health take the initiative to examine with the Department whether or not the encryption decision has been implemented. Through the hearing, we probably got a very clear impression that encryption was a very low priority in the Ministry of Health under those state councils. But it's clear that when you organise a hearing to investigate this, there's a lot to focus on. Then, of course, in retrospect they say that it has been a high priority. But here I have an opinion from the current Minister of Health Ström-Erichsen, who she came with on 28 January of this year, at the Health in Development seminar. She said the following: ‘For quality improvement, we need to have registers that allow us to connect and research knowledge that can bring healthcare forward. And I would never forgive anyone if privacy were to prevent the possibility of getting the right treatment of the best quality." I think this is very clear that as late as January this year, the current Minister of Health has the opinion that privacy is definitely second. I would say that the statement is historyless and slightly reflective. If you look at it historically, the goal is to allocate the drug, unfortunately it has been the cause of quite serious abuse, not least in medical research. Now I'm talking about historical back in time, not our time. But to say that everything is subordinate to the requirement of research and in terms of health is an opinion that in history will be very poor. Our impression is that this has been a low priority in the department, and therefore it has not been implemented before one hurried when the Stortinget realized that little had happened. The second question seems more obvious to me, namely when a decision cannot be made – and I will not wonder why. There can be reasons like it's difficult, it's technically complicated, it takes time, it costs money. So there may be a lot of reasons, but the fact that a roll-up decision is followed up with immediate implementation is meant to be literally. Then I think it is obvious that when a government council discovers that regret, here I am unable to comply with a decision and not communicate it to the Stortinget, it is a sin of omission of the worst variety. We got so far in the hearing that former health minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen admitted at least the following – I quote not directly, but freely stated: We should consider going to Stortinget with a notice that Stortinget’s decision had not been implemented – so we considered going to Stortinget. The current Minister of Health asked for more inquiries to support the same assessment. So there is no advice from the government parties in this setting as to whether that assessment should lead to going to the Stortinget. With the attitude of the government parties, and as the majority of the majority of the Storting's views on this, we can therefore risk that, in this big deal, we will take legislative decisions that will be followed up with immediate implementation, will not be implemented. It is a precedent that I believe The Storting in the long run cannot live with. I look forward to the minority's explanation for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1272	As the rapporteur said, this matter concerns the issue of Storting's decision on the encryption of a total of eight health records has been followed up. Of course, when Stortinget takes its decisions, this should be followed up in a satisfactory manner. I have a particular opinion that the Ministry of Health and Health has also had a clear ambition in this case to comply with the Stortinget decision, as provided, so I do not share Mr Foss's opinion that the department has de-prioritized this issue. As I understand it, this work has encountered several unforeseen challenges that have led to the failure of the results, as the plan has been, and as we all expected. In the open hearing on the case on 19 May this year, former Minister of Health and Care Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said that there was a strong focus on meeting the law's requirements, and that it was constantly working with all these registers. He described the technical challenges with the following image: ‘I think it’s a pretty good picture that it was like going on a mountain trip in an unknown terrain. You see the top and you see it's good within reach. When you get up there, you see that it wasn't the top either way. There's a new top behind this." I think this is a good description of the challenges faced in this context, which is the explanation that this situation arose. I must also add that this was not a matter of finding the answers from other countries we can compare with, because Norway is very far ahead in this work. In this context, I would like to refer to the open hearing on 19 May this year, where the Head of Department of the Institute for Public Health Geir Stene-Larsen said the following, on questions from me: ‘It is the case that Norway is well advanced in health records. This also applies to the other Nordic countries, so that the most relevant comparisons will probably be Sweden, Denmark and Finland. What we know after having had quite an in-depth conversation with them is that they have encrypted the parts of the work that we also had encrypted many years ago, that is. shipments of files, storage of copies and such items. But encrypting the very base in which the data is based has not done them either, so they have a much worse solution than what we have per. today.’» I therefore think that this whole matter boils down to the important question of why this situation arose, and why Stortinget did not get information about a possible delay much earlier. I see clearly that this is a very relevant and important question, but I also think that there have been acceptable explanations of this from those who have had the primary responsibility for the matter. In this context, too, I would like to refer to the open hearing on 19 May this year, where both former Minister of Health and Care Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and current Minister of Health and Care Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen said that when you see this in retrospect, you should consider promoting a new bill asking for deferred entry into force of the law. As I see it, the status today is that all the central health records are now internally encrypted, with the exception of the cause of death, but that will also happen with the first. I have also taken note of the information that the Minister of Health came to the hearing on 19 May this year, where she said on questions from me that it was estimated that it would cost between 50 and 100 million. to modernise all health records. After what I understand, this is also a very time-consuming job that you expect to spend ten years on. It's not just encryption, but a completely different form than what we have today. I hope that the Council of State in its article today will say more about this. I am concerned that this important work is now being completed in line with the Storting decision, and I am sure that the Council of State will do everything possible to achieve this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1308	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1311	I would like to ask the spokesman for the government parties about the statement that the government has had the ambition to implement the bill covers his perception of parliamentaryism. Is it the case that a legislative decision is to be taken at the time of the decision of the Grand Duchy, or is it to be implemented after the government's ambitions? Does the representative have any idea of how many years it can take before such ambitions lead to implementation?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1316	I would like to say clearly that the government is going to comply with the decision of the Storting, but as I explained, in the situation that arose, when there was still support for new problems, it was not done as the ministry intended. I don't think anyone here can be accused of putting aside the Storting decision. You've worked actively all the time to solve this, but you've encountered problems that you didn't see in front of you. That's the background for us being there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1321	Then I have to ask: does this mean, in the opinion of the representative, that the date of implementation is a matter of judgement? Then it is better that Stortinget decides that it will be implemented at the discretion of the government. There would be a bit of a strange wording in a big deal, but that's what the representative now says – that if you face problems, you can take the time you need to implement a law decision. Then I would like to ask: is it in line with the view of parliamentaryism that the power to assess the decision of the Storting has subsequently been transferred to the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1326	The answer is no. It's not a matter of beauty. But here the unexpected problems arose. I also need to be shown that both former State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and the current Council of State have said that it should be considered to come to Stortinget and ask for a postponement of implementation. I think that's a good description. Here, things have arisen that no one would have wanted. Everyone wanted the decision to be implemented, in line with the Storting decision. I believe that the government cannot be accused of having used discretion or of having driven something Stortinget would not know about.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1331	Per-Kristian Foss is asking for the word for another line. Under the Rules of Procedure, only two lines are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1334	It was in accordance with the old Rules of Procedure, President. The size has adopted new rules of procedure since then, for the entire period, and there is no limitation on the number of lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1339	Then the representative Foss is given the floor in a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1343	Then I have to say that I don't understand what the speaker is really saying. It is said that the department has worked on the matter all along. But it took a year and a half before the then state councillor, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, took the first initiative to check that the decision had been implemented. Saying that you've been working the whole time may be the other way around. But I have to ask the representative: does the representative see any limits on how long a government can wait to implement an implementing decision with date? So it's about here. three years. Does the representative now see any boundaries, as he defines the new majority parliamentarianism?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1348	I have nothing more to add than that I see no other explanation for it. Here, a new job has encountered problems after problems. I think that former councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen well described it: When one problem had been solved, a new one arose. So you say that with the background of what you know in retrospect, you should have gone back to the Stortingen and asked for a postponement. So it wasn't done. I think that now that we have the matter, there should be a clear explanation from the government. These are complicated issues, which we cannot agree to in our neighbouring countries or other countries and find solutions to. So I repeat, the government has had no desire to cheat in this context. It has worked hard to find solutions, and we are now the first ones in the process of getting completely in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1355	I have not invited any speculation about the motives of the government. But I have just one simple question: does the representative not see anything critical in that Stortinget was not informed that Stortinget's own legislative decisions have not been implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1360	I later see that the government should have considered returning to Stortinget with a message about the situation. So it has not been done. It has also been said by the Council of State. So I think it must be a clear message from our side.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1365	I could imagine asking the Arnesen about the following: During the hearing, it was constantly stressed that this was a decision that had not been initiated by the government. It was a decision that was initiated during the treatment in Stortinget. My question is this: Does the representative of Arnesen believe that the level of ambition for the follow-up to the Storting decision and the lack of information to the Stortinge that it was not possible to follow the Stortinge decision could have anything to do with the fact that the decision was adopted in due course on the initiative of the Stortinge – and not by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1370	I don't think here either that the government had any other motive than what I've already said: It's based on problems. I do not think one should question the government's objective in this matter. The size had made its decision, and a work was started on this, but it was complicated, there were problems that could not be gotten help to solve with others. This had to be done nationally. I believe that the government has worked intensively to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1375	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1378	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for his good work. I share his view in the main – the view the rapporteur has made clear from the pulpit. This case opens both political and judicial doors. It shows the importance of political prudence, but also the need to underline the legal obligation of a Council of State towards the Storting. It is serious when a government council over time does not care about following up the decision of the Storing. It's serious when a government council doesn't have the ability to see that the Storting should have been properly informed. It is serious when the Bill of the Biggest no longer has absolute weight for the majority government. But it's also serious, as we were not least demonstrated in the line change recently, when the majority of the Storting doesn't think there's so much to think about. That's the impression in this case. The most daring criticism sent to the government by the parties participating in the government is that they share the views of the Council of State that, in the light of what she now knows, she should be ‘assessed’ to take the matter up with the Stortinget. The task of the Control and Constitutional Committee is to control the administration, inter alia: with the intention of securing the nation against corresponding future errors. A government council as deliberately and over time does not follow the Bill of the Storting, according to the opinion of the majority of the population, does not even deserve a small scrape. That's remarkable. It is a serious democratic problem when a government council that does not submit to the decision of the Storting gets rid of it completely. The fundamental thing in our democratic system is that the Storing adopts laws and budgets, while the government is obliged to implement and deal with the decision of the Storing. Normally, any Council of State which does not comply with the decision of the Storting could no longer be the Council of State. There are some who claim that majority governments are the whole starting point for well-functioning parliamentaryism. The present case is an example of the opposite. Here it does not appear as if the parties of the Great Britain have people in government, but as if the government has people in the Great Britain. It's a very little lucky development if you really mean something about government. This case is special because the infringement is so clear. There is no excuse for a Council of State not following up a very concrete legislative decision. And it can't be excused that the Council of State does not communicate to the Storting a wish for the postponement or amendment of the provision as such, if it proves very difficult to follow up the decision of the Storting. It does not appear that any of the councils that have failed the Bill of the Storting have been able to understand that it had to lead to a reaction from their side. During the hearing, former State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen made it clear that he did not even consider coming to Stortinget with this. Nor was it able to assess the need to inform the legislator that the department did not comply with the law. Neither Hanssen nor Ström-Erichsen – as health ministers – acknowledge that they should take this up with Stortinget. However, former Minister of Defence Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen said in the hearing that he should ‘have promoted his own legislative proposal in which he had assessed the postponement of the entry into force of the law’. Here the former Minister of Defence concluded that there should have been a case for the Stortinget, and that the Stortinget thus received an assessment. Unfortunately, she did not say the same as a Minister of Health. This paralysis of action to Parliament lasted three years under three different state councils. I think it more than indicates a government attitude towards the Storting, which is fundamentally undemocratic. There is no doubt that the legislative decision put the department’s competence to the test and that it was laborious to implement it, in particular taking into account that the decision was actually taken on the wrong premises. The strange thing about such a situation is that one meets with the passivity of the Council of State towards the Storting, rather than with the activity one could wait in such an important matter as this. The decision was taken on the basis of incorrect information, and the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party had no coverage to assume that the health records were de facto encrypted. However, there is reason to believe that the Government Party's proposal on encryption requirements was also dealt with in an ordinary way in group meetings, and that the Councils normally attend such meetings when dealing with matters relevant to their territory. Furthermore, the Council of State is present in Stortinget during legal proceedings, together with its office. No reason to inform the Stortinget – or some other – that the condition for the future decision of the Stortinget was wrong was found at any time during the course of the Stortinget proceedings. At this stage, questions may be asked whether the Council of State fulfilled its obligation to provide information to the Stortinget. I'll get a little closer to that later. However, these matters are irrelevant to the validity of the Decision. The contested decision shall have legal effect on its substance as long as it has not been able to do so in a manner contrary to the rules of law to which the contested decision is subject. A legislative decision is amended by a new legislative decision. Of course, in some cases you can face some challenges if you ask for a deferred date of entry into force. This specific legislative decision was taken without prior consultation. It is underlined both by Hanssen and Stroem-Erichsen in the control hearing. In such a situation, a particularly active approach could be expected from the Ministry to ensure that the legislative decision was actually followed up. It was said that it took 18 months before the Ministry took such an initiative in relation to the health records. It shows an attitude towards the Greatness which is hardly in line with the assumptions on which our democracy is based. It would be a good idea if the citizens or businesses of the country were to escape public demands simply because they were unable to investigate the rules applicable to them in the areas relevant to them. There is reason to impose particularly stringent requirements on the follow-up of the Storting law decisions by the departments. This case reveals serious weaknesses in the ability of the executive to deal with the Bill of the Storting and to communicate its significance to the underlying agencies and bodies. It is clear that former Minister of Health and Care Bjarne Håkon Hanssen did not inform his successor that he had deliberately left the decision of the Stortingen, and that he had not informed the Stortingen about this for a long time. In order to ensure efficient management, information sharing is essential. The fact that the new Minister of Health was not given this very important information from his party colleague suggests that the former Council of State Hanssen did not really think this was such an important matter. The fact that the Office did not disclose this information to the Council of State immediately after accession may indicate a lack of understanding of the gravity of the matter. This lack of understanding is supported by the government parties in the setting, and that is quite special. The obligation to provide information, or the obligation to provide information, has been an important element in the relationship between accumulation and government over time. It follows both the Liability Act and firm practices. The scope of the information obligation has been discussed, and it will, of course, be necessary to draw the limits concretely on the individual case. In my view, it is clear that the disclosure obligation also includes providing the Storting with information on matters that would affect the decision of the Storting, even if the information was only made known to the Council of State after the Storting had taken its decision. Information on the lack of assumptions for the Storting decision will, of course, bring the matter to a new light, and it is of course essential for the Storting to be informed of such facts. Thus, I believe it is clear that former government councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was constitutionally bound to inform the Stortinget about the situation at the latest at the time the department was made aware that the health records did not meet the requirements of the law. The fact that the Council of State did not understand it even after having received this information personally underlines the importance of the Storting's highlighting from time to time the importance of the non-indicative nature of the disclosure obligation. It is obvious that former councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen would inform Stortingen of the current situation, and in my view it is equally obvious that it was his constitutional duty. It is therefore remarkable that he admits that it was not even considered to inform Stortinget about this. Thus, it also appears clear that the current State Council was constitutionally obliged to inform the Stortinget when she took over as the responsible State Council. Initially, there is no good excuse for a government council that she has been responsible for too short a time to fulfil her constitutional duty. In this case, however, we have chosen from the Progress Party to focus on it when we have assessed the desired reaction form to the Council of State. Infringement of the constitutional obligation of the Council of State towards the Storting may result in prosecution by national law. In this context, we are pleased to point out that such a basis may exist, but that in response form in this case it appears to be very little appropriate. However, when I have chosen to spend some time on this, it is because the Storting adopted important changes in the national law processes in the previous enlargement period, and because I believe those changes can help to update national law as an instrument in the event of a breach of constitutional obligations in the future. In this case, it is more relevant to discuss the forms of parliamentary reaction. If Bjarne Håkon Hanssen had still been Minister of Health, I believe it would be difficult to get past this matter without expressing the lasting damage it has caused to the trust in such a government decision. Because of the change of state council and the fact that the former health minister has so clearly said that he did not inform his successor about this serious situation, we have come to the conclusion that it is completely wrong to express a lack of confidence in the current state council. However, there is reason to stress the serious nature of the case in the form of decisions. The attitude expresses criticism for the lack of implementation. However, I would like to stress the very critical nature of the lack of information to the Stortinget from the time the department was made aware of the lack of assumptions in the decision. Finally, I would like to make a few comments regarding the department's consideration that they now meet the requirement of encryption provided for in the law. During the audit hearing, it was made clear that the Ministry changed its understanding of the legal requirement shortly after a meeting with the Data Protection Authority. It now appears that the department – instead of resolving the encryption requirement and the legal encryption challenge – is defining itself away from the problem. Despite the fact that the preparation of the legislation is modest, there are clear concrete expectations in the setting of what the encryption requirement should contain. An essential requirement is that personal data and health data should be encrypted so that those processing health information should not know who this applies to. This is very important in research and similar follow-up of health data in the health registers. The state councils themselves stressed in the verification hearing that it was the Stortinget that made the claim without prior consultation. It would also be natural to expect that the Storting itself will assess the content of the encryption requirement, and the matter should therefore be referred to the Stortinget for special treatment. I know it doesn't matter for this matter, but I still allow myself one last sigh on behalf of democracy. If the representatives of the Great Britain are to play their role as the elected representatives of the people, one must expect that one will dare to criticize the government where it is evident that the individual Council of State or the government deserves criticism overall. I know it's hard. I know the pressure is hard. It is our duty, however, to ensure that the government performs the duties it has under our constitution, and it is our duty to order it when the executive does not do his job and set aside the decision of the Storting. I believe that the government's parties in Stortinget run from today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1435	This matter concerns the encryption of health records, which in itself is a very important matter, not least in terms of privacy. I'm not going to spend the time on the material content of just that, although it's worth a debate in itself. Here there are more questions as to the extent to which the government has followed up the Storting decision and informed the Storting about the evolution in the follow-up to the decisions taken by the Stortinget. The opposition fully agrees on two aspects: the government has not followed up the decision of the Storting, and: it has also not informed the Storting that it had difficulties in following the decision of the Storting. In my view, it is the essence and background of the relatively strong criticism that the opposition is all about. Bendiks Arnesen, who has brought the matter before the government parties in this debate, said that the level of ambition on the part of the government has been high in implementing the decision of the Stortinge. I have to say that then you have a low level of ambition for what you think is the ‘high’ level of ambition in this government. It is in itself a rather powerful characteristic of the government's work, in my opinion. What can at least not be said to have been high is the level of information, because it has actually not been there. I really think the hearing explained much of the background to how this case has developed as it has – namely that the decision was taken on the initiative of the Storting itself, and not from the government team. There I think the dog is buried in relation to the lack of follow-up and the lack of information. It could be tempting, when one sees that it is a year and a half before the Ministry of Health and Welfare informs the Ministry of Defence that the decision of the Stortinge actually includes them, to ask what the cause is. After that, the government has equipped itself with its own Minister of Coordination. I hope that it can also help to improve the coordination of the Storting decision and the follow-up of the government accordingly. The majority reject the fact that the decision has not been followed up, but they actually reject the fact that it should have been informed at an earlier time. The only glitch of criticism is the following quote – the current Minister of Health and Welfare is quoted in the hearing: ‘It is clear that when you see it later, you should consider promoting a new bill, asking for deferred entry into force of the law.’ I think it would have served the majority in this room to the credit if at least the word "estimated" had been deleted. I think it is quite obvious that a new bill should have been proposed, asking for deferred entry into force of the law. That should be the least. We agree with the detailed explanation given by the rapporteur. We believe that this is the basis for the strong criticism that has emerged, and I must also say that I am responding to the intervention of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1453	We in the Left support everything that has been said in the very good introduction of the rapporteur, supplemented by the chairman of the committee. I will not go the debate much longer, it has shed light on what this matter is about. I think the real representative of Arnesen's post on mountain government was a pretty good picture of what it feels like to discuss this government's position on privacy. I believe that governments should not wash around the mountain without knowing where they should – without knowing the map, without checking the road. But the government seems to have done it a little bit. This is both an arrogance to Stortinget that a government should not have, and it is also an arrogance to the professional bodies that one here has to lean on. The way in which you have met the Data Protection recommendations here is also worth criticising. So to the symbol power in this case. I think it can be quite big, because this really shows how important the government thinks privacy is. I have also noticed that the representative Foss quoted the State Council on how to emphasise privacy. We can discuss privacy and privacy when it comes to where our borders go politically – but I think it's a little daunting to have a government that doesn't think privacy is important in terms of health information. That's definitely the most private thing we have. It's actually so private that sometimes we don't even give information to our closest ones, which we should have done, because we don't want to. It must be the right of people to decide about their own health. These are also the types of issues that actually follow when privacy is broken. Today, no one has been convicted of any of the privacy law paragraphs. But we experience every year that health professionals lose their jobs because of snooping in other people's journals. This is the only area where privacy legislation is actually enforced, because it's so delicate, because this is so private information, and because it's among the types of information we need to have the right to have navigation. Finally, technology gives us great opportunities. We have incredible opportunities to tackle many of the challenges of the future with new technology. But if politicians are not interested in setting a framework for this, it can lead to an evil society that can use technology against people, for power and against individual citizens. This is why setting a framework for technology is so important, and it is therefore also important to set a framework specifically in this area. I must say that the arrogance towards Parliament, that one does not care about decisions made here, the arrogance towards the professional institutions, and also the lack of understanding of the importance of privacy for individual citizens, especially in the field of health, should clearly be critical in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1470	There should be no doubt that law decisions taken by the Storting are to be followed up by government and underlying agencies. Therefore, since the encryption requirement came, it has also been working to find solutions to meet the requirements of the law. However, the size suggested in the setting that encryption had already been done in the health registers. When the department went into this, we found that there are a number of security measures in the registers, but they were not encrypted in today's understanding of the requirement. When I became Minister of Health and Care in October 2009, the encryption solutions were in operation in the Norwegian patient register and in the vaccination register. The other registers have an outdated IT architecture. Most registers receive most of the messages on paper and it is not possible to use the same encryption model as for the electronic registers. As a result, encryption solutions for the old registers have always been worked in parallel, and various encryption measures have been put in place along the way. Encryption is one of several techniques that can be used to hide identity in the registers. This is a particularly resource-intensive and complex process for non-full-electronic registers. It has been particularly challenging to find a solution to how this should be implemented for the old registers used simultaneously in patient-oriented activities where identity is necessary. For example, in case of outbreaks caused by the E. coli and Legionnella bacteria, the message system is used for infectious infectious diseases. In the investigation of outbreaks, it may be essential to identify persons in order to identify sources of infection. The Ministry and the Central Health Registers have invested considerable resources in the process of getting all the registers internally encrypted, in line with the Storting decision. But as I have pointed out, this was demanding. Otherwise, I refer to what former health minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said in the hearing – and to which I joined – that when you see it afterwards, you should consider going to Stortinget with your own proposal on deferred implementation. It is my opinion that all the central health records are now internally encrypted – with the exception of the Cause of Death Registry located in the Statistical Central Bureau. This will be encrypted in a short time. However, the fact that the registers meet the legal requirements does not mean that things cannot be done better. It is a long-term goal to make all the registers electronic. Electronic records will make it much easier to get good encryption solutions. A 10-year plan for the modernisation of the health records has been proposed through the National Health Registry Project. A serious cost estimate is that such modernisation will cost between 50 and 100 million. kr. There are few legal sources of internal encryption in the health registers and the legal text can open up different interpretations. After a demanding process with the registers and the Data Protection Agency, I have come to an understanding of what I believe is the law's requirement for encryption. It is due to a misunderstanding that I should have changed my perception of what is in the law's requirements. It was not until 10 May this year that an authoritative interpretation was made. The Data Protection Authority has a different interpretation. They believe that it is not enough to encrypt the entire register. They have expressed this in the hearing and in letters to the ministry. The letter from the Data Protection Authority does not change my understanding of what minimum requirements the law provides for encryption. I have also stated this in a letter to the Data Protection Authority of 11 June 2010. We cannot have a situation where the supervisory authority bases a different interpretation of the law on its supervision than the health authorities use for the management of the health records. I am therefore prepared to come back to Stortinget with a bill in this case to clarify my understanding of the law's requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1493	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1496	Finally, it was a pleasure to know that Stortinget has the opportunity to assess the interpretation of this. During the hearing, the Council of State Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen was also at the hearing as former Minister of Defence and, as former Minister of Defence, she said: ‘It is not very difficult to see that, in retrospect, one should have promoted a separate legislative proposal in which the suspension of entry into force of the law had been assessed.’ What is the reason why she believes this as a former Minister of Defence, but has not reached the same conclusion as the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1508	As Minister of Health, I joined in what Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said, that we should consider going to Stortinget with our own proposal on deferred implementation. In the Ministry of Defence we became familiar with this in October 2008. In October 2008, a contact was made with the Defence Department to investigate the status of the Defence Health Register. It took some time to figure out. Many security measures were and were taken, including in retrospect, in connection with the processing of the Defence Health Register. Then you joined the process that took place in the Ministry of Health and Welfare to find a good encryption solution for all the registers. We worked in parallel with each other both internally in the Defence Department and against the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1515	I am pleased with the latest information that the Council of State gave in its article. It means that everyone can vote in favour of II in proposals for decisions, proposed by the majority of the Committee, because the Council of State will do so. But it is possible that the sovereignty of the government parties is such that one will not vote in favour of the proposal, only accept the State Council's insurance in Stortinget. The size selection to assess the control function of the size and control of government and administration are as follows: ‘Relevant factual information should be clearly covered by the obligation to provide information.’ Does the Council of State consider that there is a relevant factual evidence that she has not implemented a legislative decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1527	I believe that, as the State Council in the Ministry of Health and Welfare, I have always worked to meet the requirements of the law with regard to the health records, to get them in a form that was in agreement with the requirements of the law. We have also worked intensively to meet the legal requirements regarding encryption. Then I want to stress what was said many times in the hearing, that it took some time before you understood what status the registers had, how far you had come with the technological requirements. This has gone over some time, and, as I said many times, in retrospect you can see that you should consider going back to Stortinget with a proposition to get the launch postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1534	That's not what I asked. I assume that the department is working. I assume that the Council of State is working. And I'm assuming, in fact, that the Council of State is assessing. But I asked about the conclusion. Is the fact that a law with date-fixed entry into force not implemented, a fact-finding information that the Council of State believes Stortinget should get and have an interest in?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1539	There shall be no doubt that the date on which a law is to be enforced shall be enforced. There's no turning point for that. I also initially said that very directly in my post, that it should be followed up from the government and from the underlying agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1544	Then I almost have to change my line, and my question to the Council of State is: If there is no swirling coin in complying with the decision of the Stortinge, why didn't you immediately know that you couldn't comply with the decision of the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1549	In the health records setting, the size was based on the fact that encryption had already been done in the health registers. When the department went into this, we found that there were a number of safety requirements that were met, but they were not encrypted in today's understanding of the requirement. This took some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1554	You almost get the feeling that you've worked so hard to fulfill the Stortinge decision that you haven't had time to inform the Stortinge that you didn't have the power to do it. There is an understanding of how the Storting should be informed, which I cannot share. But then to that state council stated in its statement, namely that she intends to promote a proposition that clarifies her and the ministry and government's interpretation of the Stortinge decision. Is it to be understood that what the Council of State puts forward is a proposition by which the understanding of the encryption requirements of the Data Protection Authority is disregarded and that it is the ministry's view that will then receive the blessing of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1562	The fact that there is a disagreement between the supervisory authority and the ministry is not a good situation. That's why I want to go round with the Data Protection Agency and make a proposition for Stortinget. At the same time, I would like to stress that I have not changed my perception of what is required by the law, and whether our interpretation meets the requirements of the law. I really do. But at the same time I want to come back to the Storting about this, since there is a disagreement. And then we're going to clear that disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1567	I wondered if the Council of State could explain what kind of process she would follow before she might promote such a bill for the Storting. Will the proposition be sent to consultation before it is promoted in the ordinary way by the Storting and will the relationship with the right to privacy of European human rights also be included in that proposition, so as to clarify the relationship with the European Declaration of Human Rights relating to the right to privacy in that context?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1572	The relationship with the European Commission on Human Rights was up at the hearing. I have to say that in this case, it is a clarification of encryption. That's what I'm coming back to Stortinget, because it's at that point that the Swedish Data Protection Agency has disagreed with the interpretation of the Ministry of Health and Health. I came with my interpretation June 10th. The Data Protection Authority has expressed its disagreement with it. I believe that this is an unfortunate situation. That is why I want to come back to Stortinget with our interpretation of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1579	During the hearing, it was clear that, among other things: The Norwegian Centre for Human Rights believes that the relationship with the European Declaration of Human Rights and the relationship with the right to privacy was not sufficiently established and clarified when the Stortinge dealt with this matter. Would it not then be beneficial for the government to also do a work related to this when it first promotes a new proposition for the Storting, so that that question too is adequately addressed? Or is it that the Council of State believes that such a review would be too unpleasant for the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1584	These are several different registers, for different purposes, which can neither have the same architecture nor the same way of organizing their data. Some records need to be kept open all the time, as I also said in my post, and some records are stored in other ways, so that it is more rare to enter them. It has been stressed here that I should not have a relationship with privacy nor with European human rights. It will always be assessed when entering a new register in order to see the purpose of the register and how it should be organised and organised on the basis of the surrounding laws and frameworks, including human rights. This will always be an assessment that will be made, but it is also necessary to consider that the different registers are for different purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1591	In the hearing, where the Minister of Health was the Minister of Health, and several times today the Council of State has said that the only form of self-recognition in this matter is that she should have considered informing the Storting about this and made a proposition on deferred implementation. I think you almost have to be a member of a government party in order not to conclude that it should have been done. Therefore, at the very end of this debate, I would like to give the Council of State the opportunity to conclude that in this matter she should have returned to Stortinget, without the Stortinget, in the way that we have now had to do, found out that the department has not complied with the law. Does the Council agree that she should inform the Storting about this earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1598	I explained both in the hearing and today when the Ministry of Defence received a request for the state of the Defence Health Register, in October 2008, that the Ministry of Defence made enquiries with the Defence Department, and that we tried to find out whether the encryption requirement was met, while working with various other security measures. Then it gradually came to the conclusion that you did not meet the law's requirements. They then tried to meet the requirements of the law incessantly. So have I. Since I joined the Ministry of Health and Health, I have worked with the health records and in the last few months I have also worked hard to meet the legal requirements regarding encryption. I've gone a lot into this, because I think it's important. It is important that we both do everything we can to ensure privacy in the best possible way, and also have different security measures, including encryption.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1605	I don't think the Council of State got time to answer my question, so I think I almost have to repeat it. Does the Council of State now, in retrospect, see that she should have informed the Stortinget about this earlier? It's a very simple yes or no question.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1612	As I say, in retrospect, you should consider going to Stortinget that time, firstly because it took longer before you found out what the status of the registers was, whether they fulfilled the requirements of the law in the sense that we see today, and what was actually to be put into the interpretation of the law. I want to say that it was on 10 May this year that we came up with the interpretation that is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1619	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1622	I refer to the post that Bendiks Harald Arnesen had, and to the post that State Council Stroem-Erichsen had now, in terms of my view of the matter and the width of it. When I take the floor now – perhaps at the end or at the bottom of the debate – it is to comment on one matter that has been raised by the opposition. It has been used as an expression of arrogance to Stortinget when we are not in the position that the opposition has in this case. Of course that's not right. It is quite obvious that, of course, the government parties fully support the intention that the Stortninget should be informed and that, as the representative Foss said, the important principles of parliamentaryism are respected. What the opposition is basing its assumptions on is that this has been a deliberate political act on the part of the government. If it had been possible to imagine that that was the case, it is clear that we had had a very serious situation. But I think it's both through the setting, through what's said here, and through the hearing is very clearly demonstrated that that's not the case. These are the practical challenges, which have been explained very carefully, which have led to such a long time – one might say that it has been slow. That is why we, who represent the government fraction, believe that there is no basis for the very strong criticism and the proposals made by the opposition parties. It is not an indication that we are failing our role with regard to the control institution, which the Storting must, of course, take care of in a proper and proper way. I believe that there was a basis for saying this from my side, because very strong words have been used from the opposition's side at this point. Expressions like arrogance, don't understand, don't have respect for the Storting, we think it's not coverage for. That is why our position is as it is in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1634	I understand the representative Kolberg's need to explain. I must say that I stand by every strong word I have used in this debate. I have rarely experienced in my nearly 30 years in Stortinget that state councils are unable to say that the decision to collapse will, of course, be taken on the date on which the Stortinget has adopted. And the only thing you've just gone through is that you should have evaluated it. I believe that to be a matter of course. Well, considering it's just thinking. When you don't get things, you think about maybe you should tell others about it, not least those who have adopted it. But even that is not possible to say, except to repeat and repeat that one should have assessed – yes, of course. So I can't withdraw any expressions about arrogant or arrogant. But I have to say that, after Mr. Kolberg's posts, I'm a little bit in doubt as to whether there's a loss of consciousness. I don't know if it's a milder expression than arrogance, it gets government parties to consider. However, sitting for three years does not comply with the decision of the Storting and does not keep your mouth shut and inform you that you do not fulfil the obligations imposed on you by Parliament – that it is unconscious, is a very weak expression – very weak expression. Then I can be more atoning in my last word by saying that II in the proposal for a decision I want to draw on behalf of the majority of the committee, because that is how it will be voted down, but nevertheless the Council of State will do so. It seems a little pointless. The Council of State has now fulfilled our demand to present the matter of encryption to Stortinget, and she stands firm in her view – I have all respect for that. But it is up to Stortingen to define what is an adequate encryption solution, based on privacy considerations and taking into account the need for health records. I agree that there is a balance here, but I believe that the Stortinge did so by the 2007 Act, and a new increase is now given the opportunity to make that balance. So that proposal is drawn, in order not to create the misunderstanding that the Council of State can change its mind and not present the matter to the Stortinge, because the Stortinge has, of course, voted against an order for her to do so. That is why the proposal is being drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1647	The representative of Per-Kristian Foss has then explained that II of the draft decision has been drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1650	The representatives of Kolberg’s posts put the matter in a somewhat strange light, because according to that article, one could see that the government’s parties were as concerned as the opposition that the government’s information obligation to the Storting should be kept, and implementation should have been carried out, but they expected that this had not been done deliberately by the government, and – as the representative Foss was involved – this must have been done in an unconscious state of government. It is a little special, because when you heard both the former State Council Hanssen and the current Council of State in the hearing, and look at the letters of response from the Council of State, not least in connection with the treatment of the new heart register by the Health and Care Committee, there was a clear tone that since this change occurred in the Stortinget, it had been much more demanding. But the fact that the Storting – in a situation where you have a government by a majority – changes a staging proposition and reinforces the issue of privacy – should have led to the opposite, namely that the government was extra aware of following up information to the Storing. When a law that the Storting itself had changed and taken the initiative, in fact not – according to the government’s view – was possible to implement at the time the Stortinget had decided, it should in itself have made it possible that the government, and not least the ministry of the Ministry of Health and Care, was on needless cushions to follow up the information obligation of the Stortinget – and not led to sloppy thinking, as the representative of Kolberg actually says it did.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1657	Just a little bit. Since Kolberg talked about an information obligation – if I were to understand the article – which was almost subjective, that is, that one can measure the information obligation of the government towards Stortinget based on whether one wanted to inform, or not was aware that one should inform, I would just say on behalf of the Christian People's Party that it is our opinion, clearly, that the government's information obligation is objective to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1662	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 4345]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1678	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1689	As the rapporteur, I would like to comment on the communication and the comments of the majority. Initially, I would like to point out that the communication we are discussing today on the management of the State pension fund abroad has been thoroughly discussed in the Committee, with open consultation, consultation of the Minister of Finance with the Governor and the Director of NBIM, and also the possibility of written consultation with the Committee in addition to the communication itself with the underlying reports from the evaluation of the active management of the fund. It's an important big business message The story deals with today. The interest and involvement are high for the management and not least the use of revenue from the oil and gas activities and the frameworks set for the investments made by fund managers. That's good, because that's our common fortune. The oil industry has provided our country with high revenues since the first oil revenues entered the state budget early in the 1970s. These, together with good access to labour, have enabled us to expand our welfare society and have contributed to the fact that Norway is today one of the world's best countries to live in. The values of the oil industry also belong to future generations. Thus, through revenue from the oil sector, we have built up one of the world's largest public funds: the state pension fund abroad. The fund ensures that not only we who live now get the benefit of the value that the oil gives us. It is an important choice of value to set aside some of our oil revenues, so that future generations will also enjoy the oil wealth of the country. But it is also crucial to be able to finance the increased expenditure resulting from the ageing of the population, health and care. The rule of action says that over time we should not use the fund itself over the state budget, but only the expected return of the fund. The return is calculated for 4 pst. But we've determined it so that we can use more in bad times and less in good times. This gave us a space of action during the financial crisis and ensured that, unlike most other countries, we have managed well through the financial crisis. Norway still has a very low unemployment rate. We haven't incurred debt, and we still have strong government finances. The possibilities that the fund gives us are unique. It is therefore important for us how this is managed, and that there is transparency about the fund. It is therefore good that the Stortinget now receives an annual management report for treatment. In the last year’s communication, the main theme was the impact of the financial crisis and the evaluation of the ethical guidelines. In this year’s Communication, the main focus is on the follow-up to the changes in the Ethical Guidelines with the introduction of guidelines for responsible investment and the evaluation of the passive and active management strategy of the Fund. At the outset, I think it is important to point out and highlight the broad political consensus on the objectives of the SPU and the overall long-term strategy. This is also underlined in the Committee's position. There is also a broad political consensus on the governance model. Some parties want to assess alternative organisational models and whether there should be one or more funds, but there is a broad consensus to continue today’s organisational model and not to separate the management of SPU from Norway’s Bank now. At the same time, it is important to stress that further development of the management of the Fund is a continuous process. The current investment strategy aims at the highest possible return, while at the same time acting within an acceptable risk, within the guidelines for responsible investment, it must follow sound governance principles and the specificity of the fund as a large and long-term owner must be exploited as best as possible. It is important that the Fund has a high level of legitimacy among market players and the population. This requires management to target best practice internationally. The investments the fund makes are long-term in many of the world's companies, and the government therefore focuses on contributing to good corporate governance and safeguarding the environment and social interests of these companies. The framework for this has been set by the comprehensive legislative framework governing administration, based on internationally recognised principles of good corporate governance, as well as the management of the environment, social conditions, corruption, etc. by companies. In addition, ethical guidelines are laid down for the Fund managed by the Ethics Council. It also uses instruments such as dialogue, voting at general meetings and involvement in companies after the investment has been made, since the fund is mainly passive and that if the companies do not meet the criteria, it is necessary to withdraw from it. In 2008, a comprehensive evaluation of the Ethical Guidelines for the SPU was carried out. The results of the evaluation were presented to Stortinget in St.meld. No 20 for 2008-2009. The main conclusion of this Communication was that the ethical guidelines are based on a solid foundation and have proved to be robust over time and that the main features of ownership exercise continue. Some changes and adjustments were proposed and several of them are already initiated or initiated in a short time. This applies, inter alia, to: the use of active ownership and the extraction of individual companies from the fund's portfolio is supplemented by a broader assessment before a company is excluded due to grossly unethical behaviour. Among other things, the observation of companies is formalised as a new tool to see developments in the future in times of doubt. Greater emphasis is also placed on the ownership exercise of the Bank of Norway. The new guidelines for the Bank contain a new and ambitious requirement to generally integrate good corporate governance, environment and social aspects into investment activities. This is also in line with what is happening internationally. A dedicated environmental investment programme shall be established. The Ministry of Finance participates in a research project on how climate challenges can affect financial markets and how investors should act accordingly. Norway’s Bank has developed new expectations documents, which tell what expectations they have of companies they invest in in terms of children’s rights, climate change management and water management. The Ministry of Finance has become a member of the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment and participates in the United Nations Global Compact Expert Group on the behaviour of companies in areas of war and conflict, with the aim of formulating guidance on good corporate practice and the extension of good investor practice in these situations. The Ministry of Finance has increased participation in international initiatives for building best practices for responsible investment, and I believe that such cooperation initiatives may have greater potential for influencing individual companies, sectors and markets than a single investor alone. The ethical guidelines were replaced by ‘exclusion and observation guidelines’ and ‘Guidelines for the work of the Bank of Norway on responsible management and ownership exercise’ as a result of the amendments of 1 March. I believe it has been done and a solid job is done to follow up the requirements that have been set for responsible investments. At the same time, I think it is important to stress that there will still be a need to further develop both strategies and instruments to promote responsible investment in the future. This will help to follow-up through the examination of the annual report on the management of the State pension fund. In this case, single examples and debates on the investments made by the Fund will be important to assess whether the general strategies and instruments promote responsible investment, and are in line with the ethical guidelines and management objectives set by government and enlargement. Many are concerned that the Fund’s investments should be in line with Norwegian foreign policy. It is noted that there are potential dilemmas in the balance between ethical considerations and the principle that the Fund should not be a foreign policy instrument. The Committee points out this in its position, but shares the government's emphasis that the Fund should not be an aid policy or foreign policy instrument. At the same time, the Committee stresses the importance of striving for the ethically sound management of the Fund. The main picture is that the fund has managed well through the financial crisis. However, the 2008 rate of return was not satisfactory. The Ministry announced a review of, inter alia: the risk management of the fund and an evaluation of the relationship between the active management and the passive index management. The evaluation has been carried out with external expertise and, based on the reports of this work, the government has concluded that active management in the SPU will continue, but the room for deviation from the reference index will be reduced. The frames are tightened, for example: by reducing the difference in the expected return between the reference index and the actual portfolio from 1,5 pst. For 1 pst. with room for something higher in very special cases, and limits for lending have been set. The costs of the fund have so far been low compared to other funds. Within these frameworks, the government expects a higher return of up to a quarter of a percentage point over time. The majority of the Committee supports the continuation of active management and is satisfied with the measures taken by the government and the frameworks set for further active management. The Committee also supports a review of active management every four years, at the beginning of each four-year period, and also the government’s view that annual reviews of the investment strategy meet the need to maintain and further develop the strategy. The pension fund has a good record of reference in 2009. The return on SPU's investments was 25.6 p.m., corresponding to 613 billion. kr. It is the best result achieved since 1998 and means that losses in 2008 have been largely recovered. SPN's investments gave a return of 33.5 p.p., corresponding to 29 billion. kr. State pension funds abroad are now one of the world's largest funds with a total market value of 2757 billion. kr at the end of the year, which corresponds to more than one year’s total gross value added in Norway, or approx. NOK 570,000 per year. the population. With this fund, we have unique opportunities in Norway to further develop our welfare state. But it is important at the same time to be clear that if we were to sit down and live off the fund alone, we would manage about. one year. It's work – people's contribution to the value creation – that we live through here in the country. We must also bet on that in the future. The Committee therefore recommends that the Communication on the management of State pension funds in 2009 be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1744	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good report and for the work he has done, even though we in the Advancement Party disagree on some points. The central government pension fund is approaching 3 000 billion. kr, an incredible sum for a small country like Norway. We've been through a financial crisis in recent years with major fluctuations in the market, and are still in an exciting period, and especially after the fund's loss of 633 billion in 2008. kr. This sets higher requirements for better governance and stricter requirements for us politicians to make the best possible overall decisions to ensure that the fund is best operated – and better – at low risk. The way in which our pension fund is managed has considerable consequences both in the rest of the world and for the taxpayers, for whom the State manages this fund. For example, I guess we could save 2 billion. kr annually only by choosing a different management strategy. There is a lot of money that could have been used for other societal purposes in Norway. We are discussing today how we can best manage State pension funds abroad, which currently have a market value of more than 2800 billion. kr. By having it in the back of your mind, it's a cross of thought that there's a few journalists, or just one, who's here today, and that the media doesn't write any more about this. But of course we can hope that there are hundreds of journalists following the case via the Storting online TV. Otherwise we also saw when we had a hearing, that there was little interest among stakeholder organisations for management strategy. There might have been more interest in ethical guidelines, but I'll get back to that. The Progress Party appreciates many of the actions and ongoing improvements in the framework for the management of State pension funds abroad undertaken by the Government, in particular: the extended reporting to Stortinget strengthens the internal governance structure of Norway’s Bank, clarifying the role and responsibilities of the Governing Board and the Capital Management Unit, strengthening the risk management of reporting in the Capital Management Unit, strengthening the follow-up of the Capital Management Unit by the Governing Board; The financial crisis has taught us a lot, and we hope, of course, that all these new measures contribute to even better management, more security and a good return on taxpayers' money. However, in the Progress Party alone, or with others, we have a number of proposals for amendments to this matter. In the last year, a debate has flared up in Norway on the management strategy, where a number of professionals have skeptically expressed themselves to the State pension fund’s active management. Critics have pointed out that active management over time will not yield better returns than index-based management. The news of cancellation we are now discussing discusses this. However, I am surprised at the conclusion. If you go deeper into the research, even the reference to which the Storing Communication refers, available documentation and research show that you should go to Index-based management. This is why, after careful consideration, the Progress Party has also concluded that: It reduces the risk that it reduces the costs of administration it is, we believe, more realistically building up a leading management environment in Norway around index management index management is based on research, not seeing we also believe that Norway’s Bank can be the best in index management, but it is unlikely that they can be the best in active management. and, in particular, independent experts for index management; What we in the Progress Party are proposing is to divide the fund into two, where a small part is actively managed, as today, while the second part is managed by the index. The index manager part is further divided into two index funds, one half being subject to the Bank of Norway, while the other half is allocated to a private manager, whether it is one of the world’s largest index manager funds, Vanguard, or perhaps KLP, DnB NOR, Nordea in Norway or other financial institutions in Norway that are competent to do so. What's special and is the purpose of dividing it into two index funds is that it becomes a public and a private part. Norway’s Bank is then exposed to competition, making it easier for us politicians to measure their performance, and further developing skills in Norway in index management. The Minister of Finance has stated, and it is also stated in the White Paper, that the State pension fund should be the world's best managed fund. All the other state investment funds out there, all the interest rate funds, all the institutional investors out there in the world, also think they have special prerequisites to succeed in active management. However, the State pension fund should not be a payroll fund, but it is nevertheless believed that the best administrators should be hijacked. When more or less all currently available research does not support active management but recommends index management, the Progress Party we should move towards more index management. Since we have an extremely long-term perspective, we can, for example, carry out an evaluation. 10 years. I am also a little surprised that there are actually socialist parties like SV and the Workers' Party that largely honour the active administration and are the speculators' best friend in this matter. The Progress Party also proposes that the government review the companies currently excluded from the State pension fund foreign investment portfolio due to the rigorous practices of the ethical guidelines – this is because we in the Progress Party think we have come into a situation where all that government does not like should not be invested in. Last out was the exclusion of all tobacco companies, on the grounds that tobacco is unhealthy and leads to sickness and death. I'm excited about what the next becomes, and what's unethical next time. Is it going to be investing in companies that produce snacks and other drugs that lead to sickness and previous death? Is that to be ruled out? Are gambling companies to be excluded in which the oil fund is currently the joint owner? Gambling services can create sad fates – mental illness and perhaps suicide. What about the investment and ownership of the oil fund in the world’s largest alcohol producers? Abuse of alcohol can lead to illness and perhaps death in the past, while moderate use actually shows that it is healthy, and too many people improve the quality of life of this drug. But for some, it would be ethically reprehensible for the state to make money on this. What about investments in companies that produce unethical literature? What about listed brothels? No, I think these ethical guidelines have slipped out, and fears that this is just getting more comical. The State pension fund shall ensure a safe and good return for Norwegian taxpayers, not be the world’s moral police force with an increased indexation against other country’s cultures. We in the Progress Party proposed in our alternative state budget for 2008, for 2009 and for this year the establishment of an investment fund to invest in enterprises in poor countries and in emerging markets, with a minimum capital of 10 billion. kr, which has previously been unanimously approved by the Foreign Affairs Committee. Nevertheless, nothing has happened. At the same time, we record Norfund saying that there are enough good investment opportunities, but that there is a lack of capital. But do we really lack capital? We don't. At the same time, we have seen that other countries, such as the United Kingdom, have not been able to do so. China, most recently, several years ago, has invested heavily in emerging markets, such as: in a number of countries in Africa. But what do we do? The matter is being trained. This is what the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to move forward, and we are therefore proposing this today. The Progress Party also has an alternative proposal in view of the government's plans for an investment programme for environmental investment opportunities. We in the Progress Party want this to be a separate investment fund. The objective of the Fund shall be to invest in sustainable enterprises and projects in the energy and environmental sectors, with special emphasis on innovative and environmentally friendly energy technologies. Through its activities, the Fund must underpin Norway’s position as an energy nation. As last year, we also propose that the government impose on the Bank of Norway for the future to enter into employment agreements with its administrators, which also include downside bonuses. This should also apply to external managers with whom the asset management unit agrees, because we believe that an administrator should not only get high bonuses and high wages if things go well, but should also mark it financially even if the investments he himself has made go wrong. A bonus programme should therefore have both an upside and a downside. I am pleased that this year's Christian People's Party agrees with us on this, and hope that more people will support us during the debate. I would like to take up with this the proposals the Progress Party is promoting alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1816	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1819	Today, a broad political consensus on the strategy for the State pension fund abroad is highlighted. That's good. The central thing is that consensus is not apparent, but real and a consequence of the fact that the strategy for the Fund over the year is anchored in the Stortinget, that the Stortinge judgment has been heard, and that we are now seeing more transparency and better procedures and control of the administration. That's good. The big oil revenues put us to the test as politicians. Every day, we're demanding that maybe you can use even a little bit more of the oil crowns. I think the few are aware that over 10 pst. – or more than every $10 spent on the state budget – is an oil crown. Comparing Norway with Greece is of little relevance. At the same time, it is interesting as a thought experiment when one is aware that Greece's deficit on the state budget this year amounts to 13 pst. That's about the same thing as we use oil money into the Norwegian economy. I believe that in the future the debate in Norway will focus more on how we are going to spend our oil money, rather than on why we are not going to spend any more. As politicians, we are set to manage a wealth that does not belong to one generation but is to be managed from a generation perspective. Norway is not the first country to reach high incomes quickly, but so far we are on the way all that has managed to manage wealth without undermining the economic foundation of the nation. I think we have reason to be proud of it. But the strategy only lasts as long as it has support in the people. This requires, inter alia: an open debate and that the strategy and policy are well anchored in the Stortinget. Just because the management needs to be seen from a 20 to 40 year perspective, it is important that we work forward and highlight a political consensus that goes beyond traditional party-political divisions. We do that both in terms of the management strategy and in terms of the ethical guidelines. The ethical guidelines were in time designed by the Centre-Right Government, and they are further developed by the Stoltenberg II Government. I think the voters expect us to manage the pension money without too high a risk, and that the investments can be defended and not violate ethical principles. In all material respects, I can subscribe to the rapporteur's statement. The right also agrees that a limited and well-needed active management option is desirable. The size and characteristics of the Fund indicate that a limited scope for active management will provide a better return over time. In 2009, the majority of the population chose to maintain the strategy, even though the fund had suffered severe losses and there was great turbulence. In retrospect, it was a wise choice. Had the forces that would reduce the share reached, the fund would have been significantly smaller today. This year, the same majority will vote in favour of the strategy. It's a simpler choice with the good results the fund can now point to. At the same time, we must be prepared for the international markets to fluctuate and the fund to do the same. Government pension funds abroad will continue to grow. It is therefore necessary to have a continuous debate on what should be the way forward. What has been a good organisational model in the construction phase need not be the best when the fund has reached its current size. We also see great creativity in giving the fund new mandates and new assignments. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Right raises the question of how to deal with different special mandates in the future. Last year, Stortinget concluded that an investment programme aimed at environmentally friendly assets or technologies is expected to bring a clear environmental benefit. At the same time, the Right marked that we believe that caution should be exercised with pre-determined designation within the general fund. It may provide for the management, measurement and follow-up of different mandates within the same portfolio. I have noticed that the Norwegian Bank expressed the same concern in its hearing opinion last year, saying: ‘The management of designated investments should not be part of the management of the State pension fund but should be carried out by specific managers.’ The right agrees with that assessment. Therefore, we also ask the Ministry of Finance in a note to consider how different mandates can be distinguished and managed by environments that cultivate their competence in specific areas. The second issue raised by the Right, together with an overall opposition, is a desire for a further assessment of the organisational models. There is no indication that we are dissatisfied with how it has been managed to date, but a recognition that the size of the fund requires a continuous debate on how it should be managed and how organisational models should be in the future. We're particularly pointing to two possible models. One is to separate the State pension fund abroad as a special-law corporation, and the other is to establish a separate interest committee within the Bank of Norway. The background to this is, of course, that it may be a challenge for the Governing Council, in addition to the usual central bank tasks, to also be responsible for overseeing and controlling the management of the State pension fund abroad. I note with great satisfaction that the department has evaluated these different models in the notification. However, I notice that you might be more concerned about the challenges of separating State pension funds abroad as a special-law company than about the benefits that may be associated with it. I notice that the notification provides a more positive assessment of the possibilities for setting up a separate interest committee. I quote from the Storing Message: ‘If a person wishes to relieve the Governing Council of tasks in order to allow the Governing Board even more time for the management of capital, the establishment of a separate Monetary Policy Committee, responsible for the conduct of monetary policy, appears to be a closer measure.’.» [[interest-rate adjustments]] I think there's a lot of talk about that because that's the way we should go. That is why the Right has also chosen not to make any proposal on this matter when dealing with this matter. Just because we record that the Ministry of Finance and the Government provide a positive assessment of that possibility, we want, in the context of this message, to highlight support for a development where you can look at different models, and where perhaps the creation of a separate interest committee, as the ministry says, will be the most nearby solution to join. We have a proposal in the position to look at a future organisation related to having one or more funds. It is not a proposal in which the Right has concluded, but which we believe should be part of the future evaluations that the Ministry is making, and with that I take up the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1867	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the proposal he referred to. The next speaker is Inga Marte Thorkildsen, who has a speaking time of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1872	With five minutes it becomes necessary to do some strict priorities, so I'll stick to the issue of ethical guidelines. Then I want to start with a quote: that ‘policy is too wild’. The history of the ethical guidelines for the state pension fund abroad, popularly called the oil fund, hereinafter the SPU, can give us more lessons and inspiration to want more. When SV took hold of this many years ago, we were ridiculed and mocked. ‘Unfortunately, in the global economy we cannot avoid getting in touch with what is bad and bad,’ said Per-Kristian Foss to Dagbladet on 5 May 2002. Foss is from the Right. Ethical guidelines were ridiculous, it was stupid, it was impossible to practice. That would lead to massive losses. It was naive, and at all terriblely difficult. Outside the financial environments in Oslo, it turned out that what was really difficult was for ordinary people to accept that our pensions would be financed by investments in class weapons, nuclear weapons, child labour and the replacement of already vulnerable people. Most people would have asked for their future income to come from blood money, to say what it was. Øystein Djupedal of SV, the father of the Code of Ethics, was implemented in the revised national budget quite exactly eight years ago: despite a sea of counter-conceptions, a sample was set up that should have as its mandate to propose a set of ethical guidelines for the petroleum fund, as it was then called. This was also done against the voices of the Right – at the time of the Cooperation Government. In the name of honesty, Jan Tore Sanner could also have mentioned it. Two years later, in 2004, the oil fund, the world’s first state pension fund, became subject to ethical guidelines. The cheer was great. Many organisations and individuals had been committed to this for years. Claiming that the practice of ethical guidelines is simple would be a gross exaggeration. But the legislation itself is proof that politics is too willful. That's right and it's possible to set limits on what you can leave to market forces alone, and there are limits to what you can accept in the pursuit of profit. In addition, the debate on the guidelines shows that the issue of neutrality is not simple. It is – and should be – difficult to defend and explain the logic of the fund investing in class weapons, while the Norwegian authorities are working for an international ban on such weapons. There is – and should be – a debate when Norwegian authorities are actively working for, for example: to end the occupation of the Palestinians by Israel, while Norwegian pension funds directly support the occupation. Therefore, it was also quite logical that the fund's funds were withdrawn from Elbit Systems Ltd., which contributes to a particularly serious breach of the guidelines that we have set up. And that is why it makes sense to discuss whether other companies that contribute to the illegal occupation of international law should also be excluded. And that's why it makes sense that there's now going to be a general code of government bonds, and that there's going to be a discussion about the practice of these. In government, SV has also been committed to setting up new initiatives that affect the fund’s investment strategy, and we are very pleased with the impact on several points. We're getting a new investment programme for environmental investment. It's very important. It is also important to show that just investments in the environment, in new renewable energy, are profitable. It's future investment. We're getting increased focus on climate. The Ministry of Finance is now participating with other investors and with the support of the Grantham Institute, led by Lord Nicholas Stern, in a wide-ranging investigation assessing how climate challenges can affect financial markets and how investors should act accordingly. Indeed, climate change could be a major threat to our savings in the future. In ownership work, Norway’s Bank has also expanded its dialogue so that the climate is also affected. There is ongoing debate on the State pension fund abroad, SPU, not just on the ethical guidelines. As others have pointed out, it is good and SV should contribute to keeping the debate alive. There will be a guarantee of changes in the way SPU is managed in the future, as well as the guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1898	Message Settings St. 10 for 2009-2010, The Management of State pension funds in 2009 is very important. It's a complicated topic, and it's hugely high values as a result of very fast resource depletion of oil and gas. But regardless of the rate of discharge, we would have obtained large values that had to be placed internationally. When the fund was set up, Stortinget raised its personal savings to a national virtue. That's good! But one largely forgot the real economy. However, the timing was and is that a major focus should be placed on the financial economy and not on the real economy, i.e. on the financial economy as the construction works themselves versus the real economy, where the financial sector is settled around the construction works. Today, we are experiencing three international crises, the financial crisis, the climate crisis and the food crisis, and Norway needs to save more in the real economy by investing in infrastructure and knowledge, in environmentally friendly production and in future investing in green business with environmental technologies, using land and biorefineries as an example, where carbon from renewable sources, plants, replace current refineries, which are based on oil and gas and non-renewable carbon. It is a central discussion in the context of the SPU to have active or passive management of the State pension fund. The government parties and the Central Party are at large in active management. Management of money needs knowledge, and there is nothing called passive management of financial resources. One takes the position anyway. In the case of asset management, an investment strategy is used where one faces demanding balances with regard to how one is to bet, balances between risk and return, for example to spread the risk on the many versus to bet more heavily on strategic investments in specific areas. The future active management of the SPU is an important debate. There is an important debate about the organisational job. The option states that it is not relevant to separate the management of SPU from Norway’s Bank now. However, there is a discussion about the creation of several funds, for example, located in several parts of the country, thus providing competence in different environments. There is also a discussion about the dissemination of investment versus focusing investment more on strategically important industries in the future. The result for 2008 was an unusually large fall in the international stock markets and thus a large fall in the size of the fund. In 2009, the loss was widely reversed. An important reason is the first phase of the financial crisis, in which the nation states entered and secured the financial institutions. In the future, historical knowledge becomes important in order to follow the best investment strategy. However, no crisis is equal to that which has been before. It's a new relationship. When the IMF Chief, Strauss-Khan, was in the government quarter before Christmas and drew historical parallels between the financial crisis and Germany's economic situation after the Versailles peace after World War I, it was very serious. The next phase of the financial crisis is now experiencing a real economic crisis that is giving rise to great concern, and there is a need for firm and more sacrificing political leadership in economic policy. Key facts are that national financial resources are exhausted. Or more correctly, one cannot manage to serve more sovereign debt. It will also reinforce the need for reforms in financial markets in order to ensure greater economic stability. Charges for financial transactions will also ensure the economy of nation states, possibly of the United Nations, to correct market forces. We can hope for results at the G20 meeting in Toronto on 26 and 27 June. Norway needs to exercise a clear vote for tax on financial transactions, in order to ensure better stability and thereby safeguard the values of the oil fund. However, the question is whether the speculation economy has not become too far internationally and that stabilisation measures will be too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1917	The next speaker is Hans Olav Syversen, who has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1920	I was about to say, unfortunately. You should have had much more time on such an important matter. Let me first take the opportunity to congratulate the Minister of Finance on the record I understand he is setting today. Now there is probably a little different degree of desire in this Chamber for how long the Minister of Finance is going to be in the future. But congratulations on the milestone, anyway. So to the matter we're discussing. It is this fund that enables us to discuss at a very different level than almost all other countries in Europe. It gives us a unique state financial position. I am also pleased – like others here – and I think it is important for Norway that there is such a great deal of consensus on the management of the fund. The Progress Party has a slightly different arrangement for managing the Fund, but otherwise there is a large degree of consensus also in respect of the changes made in the last. Then, like the representative, Mr Sanner – I also refer to the joint proposals we have – I would like to point out that there is no need to discuss at regular intervals the organisation of such a large fund as SPU represents. In particular, today’s organisation, where everything is within a whole, is the most optimal, or whether one should consider a more demarcated administration, for example. in the case of special mandates. As you can see from this position, there is also a minority who want a new mandate, namely investment in developing countries and emerging markets. I must say that I am a little surprised that the government parties do not have a more offensive attitude to the majority comment that you have actually made on yourself in the past. But we'll see if it can change. Then I have to say that I have personally been in doubt about the active administration and what framework Norway's Bank should have in that way. There is a apparent contraction in the active administration proposed by the government. In reality, compared with the practice of the Bank of Norway, this is not a major change in the framework to which we are now agreeing. But at least there has been a useful review, including with external assistance, of what this entails, the risks we face and the disadvantages of just having an index management. In the Christian People's Party, we have also finally reached the end of what is the government's proposal on this point. Let me also give tribute to SV's commitment to the ethical guidelines. It's an engagement that was early also in the Christian People's Party, and we've also developed the ethical framework further. Let me remind you, for the sake of order, when Inge Marte Thorkildsen mentions that one has had an extract from an Israeli company, that one must first invest in Israeli companies before one can start at all with some excerpts. I have noticed that it has been said little from SV about the fact that it was under SV's management of the Ministry of Finance that investments were started in Israeli companies. Of course, it has the wholehearted support of the Christian People’s Party. We were also not against the particular review of companies in this region. What we should have liked was that the government had carried out the same review in Congo, where companies profit and exploit the local population, and where investments with a certain degree of certainty can be said to have political overtones. Unfortunately, the government rejected it, but we'll see if we can get back to it. I welcome and recommend the joint proposals we have with the other opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1938	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough presentation. Today, we may be discussing what is the most important issue for the whole year, namely the management of our common wealth through the State pension fund, how we ensure a sustainable return over time, so that we ensure both future pensions and more state financial stability. Norway is a fortunately quiet country. While the countries around us are doing some significant cuts to solve their own debt problems and liabilities, we are almost counting the money in the account. With a wealth of 570,000 kroner per capita in the State pension fund, we are in an incredibly favourable situation. We can be both happy and proud of that – especially proud that we have managed to manage this wealth in a good way, both economically and ethically. At the same time, it is important that we do not take the administration for granted. I am convinced that the broad opening up to the management of our common wealth is closely linked to the fact that there is great transparency around all aspects of governance, both in terms of the ethical aspects of different investments, and in terms of transparency in wage and bonus agreements for those set to manage the fund. So, of course, we disagree a little bit about whether the returns are going to be used a little bit more like this or something, or whether the organization is going to be in one or more funds. These are important discussions, but the most important thing is, after all, that there is a great deal of consensus in this room about the big lines. We have set aside two reasonably turbulent years for the State pension fund. The large losses in 2008 have turned to a similar high gain in 2009. Many suggest that in the coming years too there will be major fluctuations in the results, but that it is right over the year to stick to the Fund’s long-term investment strategy. This is also reflected in the estimates that expected annual real returns in the coming years will be around 4.4 p.p., although this is, of course, uncertain estimates. A few things in conclusion: We had a thorough discussion a year ago about the revision of the Norwegian Bank, and thus also of the Norwegian Bank's management of the State pension fund. As you know, the Left proposed that the audit should be carried out by the Riksrevision, as the Riksrevision itself wanted. This didn't get a majority, and I'm not going to rematch it now. We get the new external audit scheme to work for a time before we take a new evaluation, but I hope that this will be sufficient, so that the Storting can have increased opportunities to exercise its control function of whether the management of the State pension fund is in line with the guidelines laid down by the Stortinget itself. As indicated in the preamble, the Left considers that a separate fund and management environment should be established in order to follow up the investment programme aimed at environmentally friendly assets or technologies that are expected to provide a clear environmental benefit. We think this will give better results, because there is obvious resistance to managing earmarked investments, among other things. The Bank of Norway. I can't quite push myself to polish a little bit at the end. It is obviously quite right – and it has the wholehearted support of the Left – that we should create an investment programme aimed at environmentally friendly assets or technologies under the State pension fund. However, when the Left proposes, as we did on Tuesday this week, that we should implement the Norwegian depreciation rules the same way, according to the Minister of Finance, this is completely wrong. For the Left, it is important that we stimulate more environmentally friendly technologies in all areas, both through investment through the State pension fund, through government budget grant schemes and through the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1957	I would first like to thank Mr Syversen for his congratulations on the life and the life of the Council of State in general. It's always working with eternity as a perspective, but be prepared to go off on short notice. It's a good delivery gel. With regard to the message we are processing today, I would like to make a few comments about it. The main point of the communication is first of all to have transparency about the activities of the State pension fund abroad, and in so far as the State pension fund Norway is involved. But the second thing, and most importantly, is to anchor important principles for the administration of the Biggest. What has shaped Norwegian oil policy since the early 1970s is the broad political consensus on very central parts of oil policy, including how to manage oil wealth through the SPU, even in the years to come. The broad consensus arises from the fact that oil and oil revenues are the property of the people, and that there is an important part of the administration to distribute the flow of income in a good way between the present and the future generations. 2009 was the best year, so far, in the fund's operations. At the same time, we are aware that this will swing. But the strength of SPU, compared to many other funds, is the long-termity and ability to sit through difficult times, and the ability to keep your head cold even in times when international financial markets are falling. Norway's Bank Investment Management has done a very good job so far. I think it is an important point in what is the discussion of the future that the legitimacy of the Bank of Norway is also something that the fund enjoys, and that the reputation that the Bank of Norway has generally seen is important in this way. There is also something that we need to include in the discussion in the future. Of course, we need to assess and discuss organisational forms and future ways of doing this as best as possible. But at the same time, I think it's also important now, in the situation we're in, that the changes that have been made to strengthen governance will have time to work. I think that the representative Sanner had a good approach to this and to such discussion and debate in the future. Active management: The most important thing here is that we have a government that is safe and long-term and that has great confidence in the population. The ethical guidelines developed are an important part of this. At the same time, there is a certain reduction in the active management space through the notification. What we also say in the message, which is important for the future, is that at the beginning of each majority period, this strategy should be anchored in the Stortinge. Active management is important, and the day-to-day management of the fund is important, but what is perhaps most important for the Stortinget is the division of labour between the Norwegian Bank and the Ministry of Finance. It is then that we – the Ministry of Finance and the Stortinget – lay down rules for risks and rules at a more general level, such as: the distribution of the type of investment between shares, interest rate portfolios, properties and investments in emerging markets. This was also underlined in the last year’s report, which said that detailed management of the daily management of the fund by the Stortinget or the Ministry should not be carried out. I am very pleased with the broad consensus that is in this area. I would also like to point out here the strengthening role that Storting's own body, namely the representation of the Bank of Norway, has been given in the management of these significant sums. Let me conclude by saying a little bit about investments in emerging markets. Significant funds have been invested in emerging markets today, but of course it includes China and other large markets, about 160 billion, or 10 pst. of the proportion of the shares. We also want to invest in Africa and what we can call less developed countries, but what is the challenge is that there are also little developed investment markets here. You have to have good practice on how to invest, for example. in non-listed companies and funds. Norway’s Bank is looking at this, and we will come back to the matter in connection with the 2011 State Budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1970	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1973	Table 6.2 of the Storing Communication shows that an overwhelming proportion of research in this area finds that active management does not generate more returns for the investor. None of the three scientific articles that have considered the performance of State investment funds find that they are capable of generating more returns. Does the Minister of Finance really think that Norwegian bureaucrats and Norway's Bank are going to be able to deal with very little or no one else? Why? And, how?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1980	I guess it could be like that -- I was saying -- bureaucrats, if you're going to use that expression. But at least I have great faith that those who work with the active administration of the Bank of Norway and NBIM will be able to do that job in a good way. After all, the historical return you have had shows that you have managed to achieve a more return over time. In general, the management of the fund is index-based. But my view – and that is a view shared by the vast majority of the Stortinget – is that there should be a certain element of active management, because it is necessary in special situations to have the opportunity to achieve more returns, and in fact also to avoid losses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1987	In this case, the Right has chosen to mark the broad consensus – not for the sake of the consensus itself, but because it is a substantive and real consensus, although I note that the shades between the Minister of Finance and the Central Party and the SV may be greater than the shades of the bourgeois parties. When I take the floor, it is primarily to confirm that the Minister of Finance does not close the door for a further assessment and the establishment of a separate interest committee. When it is said that we want to make the changes that have been adopted work, we agree with that, while, in our opinion, it is absolutely necessary to keep this possibility open, precisely because it is a significant challenge for the Governing Council to manage as different tasks as controlling the management of the pension fund and pursuing interest rate policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1994	As I said in my post, and as the representative Sanner repeated now, it is important that we at least let the changes that have been made work – what goes on strengthening the administration. At the same time, it's important that we have an ongoing discussion about this. You get new tasks, the fund grows, and in the assessment we're going to do in the future, evaluating a separate interest committee will be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e1999	The perspective of eternity, at least I can agree that it's a good idea to bring along, whether you're a councillor or not. So until the last time the Council of State actually announced, that in budgetary terms it will come back to this issue of investment in poor developing countries. I would remind you that both the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Finance Committee have expressed something about this, have said that they want it, and that it will be right from an ethical point of view. It has not become less important for developing countries, either, in view of the situation in the world economy. So my question is, are we going to be able to expect the government to come back with a concrete arrangement for this type of investment? Or is it just an assessment of whether that should happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2008	To this end, with the present and eternity, you might also say that the management of oil wealth has a very long-term perspective, if not completely into eternity. But it's important to have the long lines. In the case of investments in emerging markets, and in particular, e.g.: In poor developing countries, the challenge, as I said in my speech, is that there are little developed investment markets here – to use such an expression. It is important to come up with good arrangements to ensure that investment makes sense. It has been entrusted with further work by the Norwegian Bank, and I hope that, in the context of the 2011 national budget, we can also present concrete proposals on this. But I have to have a small reservation, because it depends on what guidelines you come up with to ensure that you have some poorly developed investment markets in such countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2015	We in the opposition have a note that states that we believe it is a challenge that the Governing Board of the Bank of Norway, in addition to the usual central bank tasks, is responsible for overseeing and controlling the management of the SPU. Does the Council of State see this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2020	Let me first underline what I said in my post, that Norway's Bank, including the main board, has done a very good job in managing the oil fund and later on when the pension fund. I also refer to the answer I gave to Mr Sanner. It is absolutely right that the Ministry of Finance has this with it. We also had that when we appointed new members to the Board of Governors of Norway. And we believe that, among other things, through the last appointment, has helped to strengthen the competence of the Governing Council in this area. But then we get back to the slightly big discussion, whether you're going to have a main board, like today, or whether you're going to have a separate interest rate committee dealing with the more monetary challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2028	Does the Minister of Finance think it is okay for Norway to reduce Swedish, Icelandic and Greek government bonds? Some believe – justified or not – that shorting leads to increased financial instability and increases the chance of countries and companies tipping over and going bankrupt. In the case of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, should have been involved in a decision to shorten Norway, for example: Swedish government bonds? Can the Minister of Finance agree that it may be unfortunate if other countries accuse Norway, i.e. the State pension fund, of contributing to the deterioration of the economic situation of other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2033	This is a very interesting discussion. In fact, with the current distribution of investments between shares and debt securities, these investments are broken down by a relative index. This means that countries with large deficits need to borrow a lot. And that means they also get a relatively larger set of entries in the reference portfolio of NBIM. What's interesting is that the Progress Party wants to go further towards an index-based investment. I think there's some contradiction between what was now the replicator's question and what the Progress Party emphasizes. I believe it is right that someone has an element of some active management also in connection with the management of the bond portfolio.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2040	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2043	«State pension funds abroad now own about one per cent of the shares listed in the world», according to the Governor of the Central Bank of the Stortingen hearing on the notification. In 2009, the pension fund has had a positive development and almost lost it again after the global financial crisis naturally affected the results in a very negative way in 2008. The story of the pension fund will form a central part of the story of how Norway managed its oil resources. I think the fund is a visible sign that one has taken the management responsibility seriously and shown the ability and willingness to long-term thinking for the benefit of the generations coming. I am pleased that a broad majority of the Stortinget are behind the main features of how the State pension fund should be managed. It is a majority of predictability, security and long-term viability. I think it is important for political Norway to bring together as much as possible on issues relating to the management of our resources in such a long time perspective. Each AIFM has an administrative responsibility. The pension fund shall be managed in a sound manner economically, generating the best possible return, but within a sound ethical framework and with limited risk. After the financial crisis, many have naturally been concerned about how we can further reduce risk. The size of the fund is behind the fact that Norway’s Bank is now increasingly investing parts of the fund in property. In this way, a risk allocates further between shares, bonds and property. The Ministry of Finance is also involved in a project investigating how global warming can affect financial markets. Active governance frameworks are being reduced, but we still need active governance. Active management costs but can also generate significant revenues. I'm not going to go far into this discussion right now, but I'm pointing out that active management has so far given a significant extra return in addition to helping build up knowledge and competence. I also believe in the assessment made by the leader of NBIM during the Storting hearing that active management can contribute in a good way to reducing the overall risk through knowledge of enterprises and countries in which the fund invests. The amount of the pension fund has significant administrative responsibilities. The Fund must have strict ethical guidelines. Companies are excluded by e.g.: human rights violations, involvement in war or conflict, environmental damage, corruption and tobacco production. One excludes companies that produce nuclear weapons and components of class weapons. I also refer to what was said at the hearings, that NBIM has identified six areas of ownership in order to concentrate efforts, and that three areas are child labour, water management and climate. I am pleased with this profile and expect that the ethical guidelines and ownership exercise are still actively being worked on. Some will be concerned about the limitations. Where does the boundary between what we rule out, and what we don't rule out? Of course, you can discuss that. But if it is that someone is opposed to the principle of ethical guidelines as such because there may be a problem of demarcation, I have difficulty understanding that reasoning. Finally, I am very pleased that the government is pursuing an active foreign policy, and so it should continue. However, SPU cannot provide foreign policy initiatives, and one cannot simply exclude companies because they are located in a particular country. We must not get into a conflict situation between Norwegian foreign policy and the management of the pension fund. The decisions of the Fund must be a consequence of foreign policy decisions, not vice versa. In this way, there is a useful wording in the proposition that an exception to the rule will only be applicable where comprehensive UN sanctions or other significant international measures have been adopted and where Norway concludes on those measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2062	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9 [[Fotation, see page 4346]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2078	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2087	The treatment of the year’s credit notification, or, as it now says, the ‘financial market notification’, shows that there is broad consensus among the political parties here in the Chamber on these important issues. But as the setting shows, there are some important dividing lines, which I will briefly comment on at the end. The financial crisis led to the strongest economic downturn in the international economy since World War II. The problems in the financial market affected the activity of the economy — and continue to do so to the greatest extent — which in turn exacerbated the situation in financial markets. In 2009, GDP fell by an average of 3.5 pst in the OECD region. According to the IMF, the International Monetary Fund expects GDP to increase by 2 pst. in industrial countries and 6 pst. in emerging economies in 2010. However, there is an overall committee which stresses that considerable uncertainty has been attached to the further development of the international economy. The crisis that began as a financial crisis, which has gradually taken several forms, was met with the fastest and most coordinated global crisis packages over time. The comprehensive package of measures addressed to the financial market in the international context greatly contributed to the first-stage mitigation of negative interactions between the markets and the real economy. I would like to point out that the comprehensive relief measures aimed at the banking and financial sectors and a very expansionary fiscal policy have now imposed very high indebtedness on many countries. In fact, we have to return to the days of war in the last century to see similar indebtedness to that of many countries now struggling. Norway has so far proven better through this financial crisis than most other countries. The decline in output and the increase in unemployment have been low in international terms. However, there is reason to point out that our export-oriented business is influenced, in part strongly affected, by the decline in international demand for products and services they sell. Nevertheless, as I said, the decline in production and the increase in unemployment have been small internationally. The export-oriented industry has already labelled and will also, to a greater extent, continue to mark what is now happening internationally. Like many other countries around the world, the Norwegian authorities quickly turned the crisis into an expansive monetary and financial policy, which, in turn, gave strong impetus to domestic demand. In addition, we have the situation in Norway that the petroleum-oriented industry has remained up and, far on the road, dampened the setback for that type of industry. An overall committee points out that there is still a high risk that, over the next few years, major expansion measures will have to be phased out in many countries. If you phase them out too quickly, you can choke the rise that creeps in many countries now, and contribute to lower economic growth. On the other hand, if they are phased out too late, there may eventually be completely unmanageable deficits on many government budgets and high government debt. Misuse of that debt, the fact that countries are simply not in a position to deal with their own finances, can once again lead to a loss of confidence in the financial market, which in turn will affect production, jobs and the security of people around Europe and the world. The Committee further points out in its opinion that, in many countries, significant convergence proposals have recently been launched to meet this challenge. Once again, I would like to point out that the consequences of this for the Norwegian economy are uncertain, but that again it is the export-oriented part of Norwegian business that will notice this in particular. In the wake of the economic crises I have referred to, there is now a wide-ranging international debate – and there is much greater pressure in this work now – on the regulation of the financial market. I share the anger of many world citizens now when it comes to parts of an industry that has been going on for a long time, in many contexts, without proper regulation linked to the real risk they share in imposing on the different communities. However, I would point out that the Norwegian regulation of financial markets seems solid and has proved successful in the international financial crisis. Unlike many other countries, we have been able to build up comprehensive legislation that is risk-oriented and with a high level of control and enforcement. However, I would point out that Norway, as a small and open economy, is completely dependent not only on the fact that it is not just here that you have complete control and a regulatory framework around this, but that this is also happening internationally. In addition, we have a special instrument in Norway, which also has other countries, but which has proved to work well in Norway, namely a deposit guarantee, which has been an important contribution to creating security around the deposits of banking customers. There is once again an overall committee that is wholeheartedly behind that instrument. But that's not all that's rose red here at home either. I would like briefly to point out just one important thing that the Committee is concerned about, and that is the increasing debt burden that many households in Norway have incurred, making people vulnerable to interest rises, unemployment or falls in housing prices. Although house purchase is a long-term investment, the level of interest at the time of purchase is likely to have a significant impact on behaviour and decisions. This is something we need to give great attention in the years to come. In conclusion, I would like to say something about the international situation in the area of financial market regulation. Extensive processes are taking place, including: in G20, IMF, OECD and EU. The financial crisis has shown us that weakly regulated markets and poor control are so serious that they are exposed to jobs, to businesses and to the security of individuals around the world. I believe that Norway should be a driving force in its efforts to bring about a more comprehensive regulation of this part of the world economy. As far as the concrete wording of the proposals is concerned, many of these range from more traditional control and regulation to transaction taxes and foreign exchange charges on financial institutions or equity trading. I have been thinking for many years that it is right for Norway to support international initiatives that can provide stricter regulation and control, but also proposals that can generate income for development in many countries that need our support. Many of these proposals are now being discussed. I believe that Norway should support several of the initiatives, at least those that can receive international support. However, I would like to point out that there is something funny about many of these proposals, which have traditionally been given attention, at least on the income side, first and foremost, to raise income to the Third World and development in the poor part of the world. Then there were few voices in the world talking about these. But now the hard hit is the national states of Europe and the western part of the economy, and once again we see that there is more and more support for that kind of proposal. So even if the proposals sound the same, the reason has now changed somewhat. On the other hand, I will not reject the fact that several of these proposals can have a good reason, and that we should go further with some of them. I would point out that a joint committee stresses that monetary policy regulations, adopted in March 2001, are in place. We are pleased that the current guidelines have proved robust through the financial crisis, and they provide a good framework for the exercise of monetary policy by the Bank of Norway. It is good to know that, through a financial crisis, we have shown that the current guidelines do not prevent Norway’s Bank from lowering its interest rate as the outlook for inflation and production worsened in the autumn of 2008. However, there is reason, on behalf of the Committee, to express concern that the notified interest rate path, which will gradually move upwards, could have consequences for, inter alia, the following: export-oriented industry. But once again, I remember that we are responsible for fiscal policy here in the house, which can also give a handshake to that type of industry in Norway, so that they can also live with a level of interest that will be set in the future. Finally, I would like to point out that the suspension also takes into account the relationship between the IMF and Norway with many of the processes in progress there. At some points, the routes of the lots are separated there, inter alia: in the case of terms of leverage and degree of transparency and other, but there I leave to the various party groups to refer to their positions. There is reason to be pleased that a substantial part of Norwegian governance in the field of economic policy is a broad consensus in this Chamber. It shows the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2121	The financial market notification for 2009 provides an overview of this very important sector, and that for a year that was very special to the sector. As always, this Communication provides a good overview and, in most areas, the Financial Committee has also delivered unanimous comments. I would also like to thank the Governor, who, through the annual consultation we have in connection with the communication, also provides valuable information to the Committee, and answers our questions. It's a good arrangement. So back to the message: the message should give a review of the last year and summarize the status. But so important: when we have this message for treatment, it is the situation in Europe and the rest of the world that we should pay the most attention. Several European countries face enormous challenges. The euro is under considerable pressure and large amounts are granted in an attempt to stabilise economies. This also has consequences for Norway. With an open economy and a large export-oriented business, there will be the economic turmoil in our main markets. This is why the Progress Party believes that we in Norway must also be willing to take action to facilitate the situation for our country’s business life. Therefore, the Progress Party has repeatedly proposed tax reliefs in various cases. Among other things, we have proposed reduction of the employer’s fee and improved depreciation rules. These are measures that directly had a positive economic impact on business and helped to improve everyday life. As a result, companies that are now seeing the order servers emptied could wait with leave and cancellations. A generally lower tax burden, proposed several times by the Progress Party, could also contribute to lower prices for our businesses in competing in markets outside their borders. The fact that today's government has so far rejected any proposal to provide economic instruments shows a government that, in my opinion, takes little account of the situation that many companies are experiencing in these days. In an uncertain future, in the face of worldwide economic turmoil, the proposals of the Progress Party to grant more funds for investment will also be sensible policies. We believe it is important for the competitiveness of Norwegian business to ensure sensible and socially profitable investments in infrastructure. In fact, the European labour market is now making sure that we can make investments more reasonable than we could otherwise in a labour shortage situation. The Progress Party notes that in this area too, the government parties reject our proposals. In many ways, this reminds me a little bit of the situation we had in the autumn of 2008. The government promoted its government budget without mentioning the financial crisis in one word. Throughout the budgetary procedure in Stortinget, all proposals by the Progress Party and the other opposition were rejected. Parties to the Government used the time until the end of February 2009 to adopt a package of measures. This shows that the government has little power to act when needed. And the Progress Party believes that today's situation is completely parallel. Again, the government is influenced by a wait-and-see attitude. I think that can be expensive for Norwegian business and our value creation. In the Committee's opinion there are several comments which bring together the Committee. Among other things, there is a great deal of attention in the comments and notification to the deposit-guarantee scheme. The importance of maintaining today’s good and sensible deposit regime in Norway is a global increase. This is important for the citizens' security of their deposits in Norwegian banks and gives increased confidence in our banking system. While confidence in the banking sector is now struggling in many other countries, our deposit mechanism has contributed to the opposite in Norway. I would therefore like to commend the government for giving priority to the EU's efforts to secure our system. We are not in the target, and the Progress Party believes that this work is a priority of the government. It also refers to the appointed Financial Crisis Committee, which will deliver its investigation on 31 December of this year. The Progress Party looks forward to a broad review of Norwegian financial market regulation, and through this work we can ensure good and safe regulation in this area. It is important to learn from the experience of the financial crisis that arose in the autumn of 2008, and the Progress Party looks forward to a broad discussion and a good follow-up to the work of the Financial Crisis Committee. Norway has some advantages that many other countries today envy us. Norway has capital, and may include, inter alia: in the light of this, take action to mitigate negative impacts of economic turmoil abroad. But then it is also important that we apply the right medicine in a timely manner, and I believe that the Progress Party, through its budget proposals, has put in place a number of measures that are absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2144	The examination of the Financial Market Communication for 2009 shows, as the Chairman of the Committee and the Advocate-General say, a fairly broad political compromise, which was behind the crisis solutions that Norway put in place and that have been there since then. The right has joined them, and the right has followed them up both in connection with our alternative state budget and in relation to the revised state budget. In the Right, we believe that it is necessary to change the policy in order to ensure job security and well-being in the coming years. Several European countries are now facing a very serious debt crisis, economic growth is low and unemployment is high in Europe and the United States. Japan continues with low growth, and there are different signals of development in China. The weak economic development internationally will also have consequences for Norway – for Norwegian industry, for Norwegian jobs and not least for Norwegian imports and exports. But Norway is still well off. As the previous case showed, we have a significant pension fund, which has made it clear that Norway has largely failed to raise loans to finance crisis measures during the financial crisis. The measures targeted at the banking and financial markets have worked rapidly in Norway. With a large public sector, many are less affected by the economic downturn — at least in the first place. At the same time, many enterprises are dependent on exports. With falling markets, a particularly high cost level and red-green tax increases, many jobs may be exposed. In the hearing with the Finance Committee of the Grand Duchy on 18 May, the Governor of the Central Bank issued an image for parts of the companies exposed to competition: ‘The economic geography of Norway will change over the next 10–15 years. Our cost level and low growth in Europe will put pressure on jobs and industry in industrial communities. The loss of jobs will hit hardest where the industry weighs most. Whole branches of industry may be lost.» These are quite serious signals that the governor sends. One thing is monetary policy, which is one of the important elements. Where we can do something from this room, financial policy. The warning given by the governor must be taken seriously. Both the Governor and the OECD have repeatedly pointed out that Norway needs to tighten up the State budget in order to avoid excessive cost growth and increased pressure on the krone price. We are pleased that the government recognizes the challenge, but we are quite disappointed and relatively surprised that the government of Stoltenberg is unable to achieve the goals that the Minister of Finance himself set himself on reducing oil money use. Business challenges are reinforced by the marked deterioration in business competitiveness under red-green governance, and innovation capacity is clearly weakened in Norway, according to the European Innovation Report. Instead of tightening up the budgets and giving priority to growth-creating policies, it seems that the government is unfortunately once again choosing to push the problems ahead, despite the expectations of doing something about it. It can increase the need for conversion and tightening. The right considers that policy needs to be reformed, so that expenditure growth above the state budget is falling, and the ability to adapt in both the public and business sectors is increasing. Norwegian banks have largely gone well, but the market seems to respond slightly. The financial crisis has revealed that some companies and banks are so important that the apparent ‘not going bankrupt’. Some banks thus become so important that the market expects the State to rescue them, especially if the State is already a major owner of the bank, and thus these banks will receive cheaper funding despite having lower equity and possibly less collateral. The central bank manager said during the hearing that this can actually be seen clearly in the bank accounts. The right has noticed this, and that's something we're looking at further. The government has stated that the use of oil money is going down. The right-hand side suggests that the government will be able to do it already in the 2011 budget, so that we get down to the interest rate path as soon as possible, in order to get down to the 4 pst. goal. In the context of the revised budget, which we shall adopt tomorrow, a cut in public expenditure, the right has cut the government budget, in revised amounts, of more than 2.5 billion. kr, on which the government should be able to participate. We believe that this will contribute to business getting a more stable interest rate and exchange rate, and framework conditions that are as equal as possible to our competitors. It makes the impression when we see reports from the business community, which are struggling with the dollar price. We have a travel industry that is concerned about development. We have shipyards, shipyards, we have export industries along the coast of Norway that are concerned about currency fluctuations and exchange rates. It is also seen that Norway is one of the countries that have started the rise in interest rates. Although small, it is at least larger than in other countries. And now we're finishing a paycheck, like the European countries -- I don't want to say they're shaking on the head of it there, but they're just thinking Norway has to be lucky. When we see similar debates in other parliaments, in other election campaigns – of which it has been a good part now – the Minister of Finance's job is to cut budgets, implement painful cuts, structural cuts, look at new ways of operating the public sector. So we've done that in Norway because of the oil money, but for the sake of the competitiveness of the private business, we have to continue that job. We feel that the Minister of Finance agrees with the objective of this, but it seems that when his budgets come, he has forgotten it. This is something that we think needs to be taken more seriously. So a note that I want to show you a little bit of, and that means something. This applies to the deposit guarantee scheme. For the right, it is a very important part of securing the banks, it helps secure us individuals and secure small and medium-sized enterprises. It has 2 million. kr in collateral per bank per customer. There the government has a good job to do in the negotiations with the EU. I could imagine the Minister of Finance responding to what the status is like there. A financial crisis committee has been set up to work on this matter in December, and changes both in Norway and internationally are being promoted to improve the market. A free market needs strong regulation to enable everyone to compete on a level playing field and to identify problems, such as market failures. One of the topics of discussion that has been present in Norwegian policy, where the government has already concluded despite having this debate in the new year, is the government's bill to ban short selling. Knowledge of short selling and its effects is relatively low in Norway, and without a broad knowledge-based review of the theme, it is easy to blame short selling for market outcomes that have quite different causes. We know, among other things: the state pension fund operates abroad, inter alia: The shorting itself, and there are many others who have also done. This could be a clue to the market that something is not entirely right. We in the Right believe that we should rather take time for a more thorough and research-based review of these experiences before presenting the legislative changes that the Council of State has now made, especially in the light of the fact that we are awaiting the work of the Committee on Finance Crisis. A sudden ban on Norwegian short selling may result in a long-term lock-in effect for operators and may create abnormal market mechanisms. The granting of such authorisations by the authorities may also weaken confidence in the continued functioning of the market. A common approach makes sense to the right. Discussions are currently ongoing both in the EU and in the United States, in the context of short selling assessments. Therefore, Norway should wait for this instead of having an emergency. I would like to commend the case rapporteur and the chairman of the committee for a good review of the case. I would also like to commend the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank who was at the hearing. They gave us a good insight into the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2190	We're in a very serious situation. The financial crisis has led to the strongest economic downturn in the international economy since World War II, and this is far from over. Spain is now talking about the risk of losing a whole generation. Youth unemployment is sky high, a country that was viewed as something close to economic miracles, is set a long way back. The market, which was given the credit for the rise, is definitely responsible for the decline. Social unrest characterises the EU countries, and the fall of the euro and capitalism is increasingly being warned. The crisis is created by right-wing policies that have led to speculation and greed in banks and financial institutions through deregulation. It is therefore a paradox that many countries are calling for more right-wing policies in order to get out of the crisis. Cut in welfare, wages and rights will lead to increasing social disparities, which in turn will create greater problems. Today's Business June 10th and investor Øystein Stray Spetalen had some eye-catching statements. We can't "maintain a social system where 0.01 pst. The population is running away with the full gain," he said. He pointed out that the elite is primarily interested in protecting their own interests, that the financial sector has become too large, and that the speculators have been given too much freedom here. He also warned against the well-being of ‘indwelling and urbanisation in countries by country’. Stray Spätalen is absolutely right. We cannot maintain this unfair, unstable and undemocratic system that, at uneven intervals, throws us into crises and causes millions of people to lose everything they connect with security. Several countries are at risk of long-term conflicts and social unrest as a result, and differences between people are likely to increase. This in turn seems destabilising and will be very difficult to bear for already pressed public budgets. Norway too has marked the financial crisis, whether we escape much easier than most other countries. Norway is once again a different country, and this time it appears to be the best way of doing this to EU citizens. There are several reasons, but it does not help to be part of euro cooperation. We have also pursued an active counter-cyclical policy. We have invested in welfare and public ownership. We are a country with relatively small social differences and good opportunities for women, a result of an active gender equality policy over decades. We have huge natural resources and we have known to distribute and manage the revenues from these resources. The oil's economic features are of course important, but this will also be very challenging for us in the years to come. It's obvious that we need to shift our economy and make ourselves less vulnerable. Here, too, active governance is needed, not blindly believing that the market is to be settled. The demand for system changes is now increasing in strength from both Heads of State, politicians and people most. Norway, with a red-green government, has a unique opportunity to show why distribution, well-being, public ownership and equality are future solutions, not taxation, privatisation, deregulation and increasing disparities. The size should discuss system changes that can make the world more democratic, stable and fair. At the end of the year, the Financial Crisis Committee will stop. In the meantime, we should address some key debates. The first concerns the debate on so-called Tobin tax, the taxation of all financial transactions. Central EU countries such as Germany and France are now supporting a global tax on financial transactions. The EU has asked the IMF to investigate such a global tax, and earlier on last year the G20 leaders adopted the same. During the Copenhagen climate summit before Christmas, Gordon Brown and Angela Merkel called for climate action for poor countries to be financed by means of income from such a tax. Nicolas Sarkozy in France has also been active in this respect. We in the SV agree with Attac's call for this tax to be both in such a magnitude that the most short-term financial speculation is made unprofitable and that the tax must provide significant revenues for a global redistribution. The second thing we need to discuss is the fight against tax havens, a struggle that must be waged with many instruments. I hope there are few people here in the Chamber who agree with the former member of the Gjermund Hagesetter of the Progress Party that tax havens are positive, because they give tax competition. With the Swedish government, we've got the issue of capital flow on the international agenda. Norwegian development policy will now focus more on strengthening fair distribution in poor countries and preventing the use of tax havens. SV also wants country-by-country reporting, where listed companies are required to account for what they earn and pay in taxes in each country they operate. I would believe that both the Advance Party and the Right put the coffee in the wreath just at the thought of this – at least the Advance Party. Christian Tybring-Gjedde of the Progress Party has already received more than enough ethics and justice in economic policy, but this is nevertheless important. In the debate on the pension fund, the concept of ‘moral police’ was also introduced. It could be interesting to discuss this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2220	The financial market notification for 2009 addresses assumptions and prospects for financial stability in Norway. As others have pointed out, the Committee is grouped in a number of areas. The first thing I want to say is that an overall committee wants to stick to the Norwegian deposit guarantee scheme of 2 million. kr per bank per taxpayer, which is much better than in EU countries. There is now a pressure from the EU system to weaken our guarantee system. There is a high risk and weak guarantee schemes. Norway has, after all, lower risks and improved guarantee schemes. It is regrettable that the financial industry in Norway does not highlight this soundness of the Norwegian system. It's very central to maintaining it. It is sad that we are now going to face a criticism and an engagement from EU countries that suggests that we are going in a direction that is the opposite of what is needed, also in the European area. Furthermore, a joint committee points out that both the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Bank of Norway have warned on a number of occasions against excessive indebtedness in households. A single committee underlines the importance for the balance of markets of the cost of borrowing and the need to save, as the Director of the Financial Supervisory Authority has pointed out several times. The Financial Crisis Committee shall look at Norwegian financial market regulation. It is very important and interesting to follow the debate that is taking place in this context on the need to change the legislation in relation to the situation in which we are developing. Therefore, it is a little sad to experience in connection with the government’s proposal for a temporary ban on short selling – which could lead to greater stability – that it will be countered by the Right and the Advance Party with arguments that it will lead to lock-in and abnormal market behaviour. It's sad to follow that. And it's sad to learn that those parties seem to continue their policy of Norway's doing nothing but what other countries are doing, the countries that may have systems that have helped us most to get into the crisis. In this area, Norway should be a small different country, which can demonstrate a greater capacity for stability, which could be a small example. On the international financial market, the single currency is the euro, with a common interest rate for countries with very different economic situations, in crisis. There is a lack of confidence among economists that the euro will survive. It's dramatic. It is difficult to predict the consequences for Norway, but it is quite obvious that our competitiveness needs to be tackled more by trying to strengthen it, not weaken it. We need to look at work morals and work incentives in relation to young people, who have been raised at a time when you don't have to save that much. We need to look at the fact that there is no need to keep earnings while working and working hours are falling. It is obvious that a number of industries that are less important if you get less money will be in a more difficult situation in the future, where private consumption can rapidly go down in Europe. The situation in the national states of the Eurosystem, and insofar as it is in the United Kingdom, is such that there is no need for a great fortune-teller to say that taxes will be increased rather than tax-reduction – rather than State expenditure will be reduced. Therefore, there is something special when the right-wing parties here today are still talking about reducing taxes in Norway, in a situation where international taxes are rising. So we are facing a situation where private consumption in the euro area countries is being reduced, leading to social unrest. This leads us to a situation where the demand either becomes more political union or the whole Eurosystem is going to go into disintegration. It's very demanding. It's very uncertain what will happen. As far as the International Monetary Fund is concerned, it should affect international stability. However, in recent years it has helped us to come into a situation that has shown that the system that was set up there did not work to ensure stability. That is why we are facing a major change in the IMF's role in the future, where ensuring stability, as it was in the first decades, will have to come to the high seat if it is to play its role. It will be important to help Norway to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2239	Instead, we discussed the management of a fund that is in excess of 2800 billion. kr. Now we are discussing how Norway has come through a financial crisis in a good way. If this debate had been broadcast into the big world, in many ways people out there might have wondered how we've done what many others have not done. There's an important reason for that, and that's that there's a broad consensus in the Storting about how important it is to keep basic order in the economy. But we are going to come back to that debate tomorrow. What we are now seeing develop is that we are moving from a financial crisis to a state financial crisis, which in the next round can lead to significant social unrest and the development of long-term and increased social divisions in many countries outside Europe. There are some of the most important challenges that we have to address in the wake of the financial crisis. Then there are reasons for the crisis, and what kind of lessons to learn from it is discussed. In addition, it is also interesting to ask yourself: what is going to happen, for example. with changes in the economic balance of power in the world — look at the countries that have achieved the best? At the same time, it is also a cross-thinking that many countries have now used their state financial space to resolve a crisis created by quite a few in the international financial world, and in that way have now exhausted their resources in order to combat climate change and not least what is going on in a better distribution of resources on earth. One discusses how one should mold – as some say – the uninhibited capitalism. One discusses regulations, supervision and who pays. Norway was well prepared for what came in 2008. We had a crisis early in the 1980s that meant that we had sorted out supervision, regulation, capital adequacy – and in many ways were prepared on that side. It is interesting to note that the lessons that Norway learned from the early 1990s from the crisis are in demand in Europe. I've had the pleasure of attending international meetings where there's a great deal of interest in how Norway has done this, how it's done oversight, and the fact that you have the same risk and the same regulation – that you have one oversight. It is important for Norway to try to contribute to international forums with experience from the banking crisis we had in the early 1990s. So a couple of other points that I think are important. One may be summed up in the term ‘consumer safety’. It is that financial institutions manage people's savings. People have to be sure that the deposits are safe and well managed. Therefore, in 2008 stricter rules were introduced for so-called composite products. Therefore, we have put the search light on investment advisors/financial advice. That is why we have put the spotlight on remuneration and bonus schemes in the financial industry. This is important, because the safety of depositors – and in a way consumers – is essential. We must defend the deposit guarantee scheme that we have in Norway. I have sent a letter to Commissioner Barnier on 11 June this year, in which I have gone even deeper into the argument as to why it is so important for Norway to maintain the deposit guarantee scheme. We believe that introducing the EU Directive means a significant weakening of the new regime. I have in my letter gone through a broad argument that I believe is important in this way. One is the security of depositors and that it is a good source of funding for banks. The second is that we are one of four OECD countries – and the only one in the EEA – that neither issued a State guarantee nor increased the cover guarantee. There is something that has worked well, and we have little evidence to say that the Norwegian depositor guarantee has so far been anti-competitive in relation to banks in other countries. So this is a high priority matter from the government, and it is good to hear that we have full support in Stortinget to work so that we can keep the Norwegian deposit guarantee scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2254	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2257	I would like to ask the Council based on what he raised at the end of his post, namely the deposit guarantee scheme. A total accumulation is behind the fact that we want to keep the order of the day. I also commended my post earlier today for the work the government has now done over a few years. But I feel it's a problem that there's an uncertainty about whether we're going to keep the scheme. We all hope that we can come to the conclusion that we should keep it. But just that there's uncertainty about whether we can keep the system, I think is a problem. Now the finance minister said that he had recently sent a new letter to the Commissioner. Can the Minister of Finance make any further deepening of when, hopefully, one can count on being in charge of this matter? What's the time perspective here?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2265	The last question is probably difficult to give an accurate time indication on. But I hope, on the basis of the letter mentioned, that was sent for approx. A week ago, we got a good answer. That's point number. 1st@item: inlistbox It is clear that this is a difficult issue in the EU system. I suppose I might have to take a trip to Brussels – I was there last autumn, where this was a central theme. I can assure the representative that I will do what I can to keep the scheme, while also working against the EU system at different levels. Some exact timeline for when you get a decision is difficult to say, but at least we're putting as much strain on the matter as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2272	First, I want to follow up the representative, Mr. Leirstein,'s question. On the right, we have addressed similar challenges with the Right colleagues in the European Parliament. There's something all parties should do, regardless of whether you're in government or not. That's an important national job to do. A financial crisis committee has been set up to address the need for regulatory changes. In the run-up to that, the Minister of Finance and the Government have proposed to ban shorting, so a sample has been set up that might start that debate in the autumn of the new year. What makes the Minister of Finance so busy banning shorting, when the dialogue is going on in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2279	Firstly, it is very good that the representative, Mr Kambe, says that other parties also use their party channels against the EU system and work for Norway to maintain the deposit guarantee scheme. Then we're going to have to hope that through joint efforts we're going to achieve a good result. With regard to the proposal and what the Stortinget has previously decided to prohibit so-called naked, or uncovered, private short selling, it is part of the fact that this is an instrument that, in our view, contributes to financial market instability, and that is in line with what several other European countries have done. In fact, as I said in the debate on the matter, Norway has historically had a long ban on such short selling. So I think that's right, even if you have a financial crisis committee that's working on this, and that's supposed to be done December 31st this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2286	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2289	The financial market notification provides a good overview of the Norwegian economy and its development, not least in relation to the international financial crisis we are still in the middle of. As others have pointed out, the financial crisis has led to the strongest setback in the international economy since World War II, with major consequences for many countries and individuals. We know that Norway is doing better through the crisis than most countries, and we have had less decline in production and less increase in unemployment. There are several reasons why, as a nation, we have managed well through the financial crisis, but we can be very satisfied with how we quickly put our monetary and financial policies in an expansive direction when the crisis hit. We have room for that in the Norwegian economy without raising large loans – loans that countries all over the world are now struggling with. In Norway, there was room for large and expansionary measures in the economy because we have held back in good times, so we had money to spend when the financial crisis came. We are still living with great uncertainty about how our economy will develop, and especially in these days we are concerned about the development of our export-oriented industries that are vulnerable to reduced international demand. Although we see that our banks and financial institutions are doing better, there will also be a difficult situation in that sector in the future, and we note that the currency and interest rate markets are marked by uncertainty. Norway has a long tradition of good and well-managed legislation and supervision of the financial market. Through a well-regulated financial market and joint supervision of the entire financial industry, we have helped to create a secure framework around an important industry for our country. This has not been the case internationally, but we now experience that processes are in progress both in the US and in the EU that show great willingness to change, and there is good hope that we will have better regulation and supervision of financial markets also internationally. The work in progress at international level will have an impact on the Norwegian legislation, inter alia: by including amendments to EU legislation in the EEA Agreement. Norway must therefore seek to better influence the processes currently in progress. In particular, in the banking industry at home there is a voltage related to the new equity requirements under assessment in the EU system. However, many of the changes now occurring within the EU as of 2010/2011 will have no significance or represent a challenge for Norwegian financial institutions. Norwegian rules and supervisory practices are already more stringent in important areas. However, despite the already strict rules in this country, the Financial Supervisory Authority has been tasked with assessing whether there is also a need here for regulatory changes to better ensure that key players in the financial market take too much risk. In this spring, we have dealt with changes in the law that affect, among other things. short selling and compensation schemes that may provide financial incentives for employees to act in the short term. These are areas that have been identified as causes of the international financial crisis. Short sales, or sales of financial products not owned by the seller, have been appropriately tightened. As from 1 July, financial supervision shall be authorised to impose a temporary prohibition on covered short sales. From the same date we get a general ban on uncovered short sales directed at the seller directly. That's good, because we think short selling is suitable for disrupting financial stability and contributing to new financial crises. In the long term, we can also have a common European regulation of short selling that is similar to what we now have in Norway. The financial crisis also showed that a one-sided focus on short-term profit can put financial undertakings and the financial system at high long-term risk. Remuneration arrangements and bonuses for executives and trustees have often been designed to tempt a person to take high risks. It is therefore of great importance that, from 1 July of this year, new rules for the setting of allowances and bonuses will be introduced, promoting good risk management and financial stability in financial institutions. The Right Party and the Progressive Party are opposed to both of these important legislative changes, as we have heard today. It's not surprising, but it's strange in the light of the financial crisis we've been through, which has so clearly shown us that we need a good code of regulation as well as a good oversight to prevent new crises from emerging based on an industry that takes too much risk – a risk-taking that has created major challenges for the community around the world, and not least for individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2304	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4347]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2321	The 2009 national accounts are a comprehensive presentation. The material is definitely not readily available to us laymen, and I think we can hardly expect such a kind of message to be any great public reading, neither this year nor in the years to come. To that end, the message is too detailed and too technical, but at the same time, after studying it carefully, it provides a solid insight into the state finances of Norway. It is a unanimous committee that supports the setting of the notification. I should therefore be brief and mention only a few key figures and a few issues that emerge from the message. Firstly, the notification includes the government accounts consisting of a commitment account and a capital account. The former shows the total appropriations and accounts for each item in the State budget. The expenditure items also show the appropriations transferred from 2008 to 2009 and the same from 2009 to 2010. The capital account shows the assets, liabilities and equity of the known country. If you look at the figures, the total revenue in the national accounts for 2009 is 1051.9 billion. kr, while the cost is 868.7 billion. kr. It goes without saying that the net revenue of the State budget from the petroleum industry is just over 280 billion. SEK, divided by 304.5 billion. DKK in income and a total of 25 billion. kr in expenditure. The notification then shows that the government accounts have what we call an oil-corrected deficit of 96.6 billion. So it's going to be $10.7 billion. kr, in relation to the new ageing of the budget. It's the technicalities. But the figures show us first and foremost how wonderfully privileged we are to be residents of a country that has such government finances. Together with our combined work, it is the vast wealth of oil and gas that has enabled us to be in a completely different position and to have a completely different development in wealth than many other countries. When, in addition, the aftermath of the financial crisis and the consequences of high-record government debt now hit many countries very hard, it is only to note that we are in a very different situation here at home. We should be grateful for that. Thanks to both the oil money, the fact that we are good at working and have a lot of work, we have considerable income, as the accounts here show, the community benefits. But this wealth also requires that we take responsibility, that we manage the values well, so that future generations too can enjoy them. It is therefore gratifying that there is a broad majority in the Storting that wants to make a significant profit in the accounts and transfer it to the State pension fund abroad, a matter that we debated recently. We must ensure that the extra resources we receive, including: from the oil, is not phased into the economy at such a rate that the economy is over. In many European countries, so much has now been borrowed that you are on the verge of a gap, and you need to take dramatic action to get the economy back on track. Sometimes you have to cling to your arms when talking to colleagues in other parliaments around the world, not least now in our neighbouring countries in Europe. They hardly believe what they hear when Norway and Norwegian parliamentarians describe the state financial situation in this country versus many other countries. I repeat: we have every reason to be grateful for being parliamentarians and elected representatives in a country with these opportunities. In conclusion, I would just like to mention briefly that the vote is unanimous, but that I have noticed that the Progress Party has made a number in a special note that the government parties have been too busy using tax incentives to counteract the financial crisis. I am not quite sure why that particular comment is contained in the national accounts, but it is now getting the Progress Party to respond, if necessary, here or once later. To that it's a lot to say. First of all, it's a little strange when you see what almost every other European country is discussing. There are no tax cuts, which several of the representatives of the government parties have been in, rather opposite tax increases, also in bourgeoisly overthrown countries. The second is that the results of the measures taken by the Norwegian government to deal with the financial crisis seem to have been very successful – they were fast, not very bureaucratic, and they had the desired effect. I believe it is directly unreasonable to believe that there are tax concessions that would have made the accounting figures or the situation for Norway very different. What these figures from the national accounts show, on the other hand, is that it's been what I would call a successful policy. With this, I'm going to present the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2340	I chose to take the floor to produce two main points – the speech of the large figures in this country’s accounts in relation to previous years, and the consequence of the large numbers and the competitive situation we are facing, in relation to the reality that needs to be established outside society in terms of the time we are now going into. The numbers first. The total profit was reduced by 232,7 billion. kr on the state budget from 2008 to 2009, i.e. from 507.2 billion. NOK 274.5 billion. kr. The oil-corrected deficit increased by up to 4.8 billion. kr from 2008 to 2009. The net cash flow from the petroleum activity decreased by 136.1 billion. kr, or from 415,9 br. SEK in 2008 to SEK 279,8 billion. kr in 2009. The structural oil-corrected deficit is estimated to be 110 billion. kr in 2009. I don't think we've experienced any major changes from one year to another. It's a dramatic change that neither most people nor leaders in politics and business have in any way taken on board. It confronts us with enormous challenges. Fortunately, there are less changes in government accounts compared to the newly aged budget than there have been in recent years. That's good. In addition, the state accounts are more positive than the newly aged budget by increasing revenue and reducing expenditure. Some of the reduced costs we could have been able to do in addition to that the various levels could have been able to use the money that was put at the disposal, for example within infrastructure. However, the main challenges are those that the figures here present in relation to the conversion of — not least — Norwegian business. Here it is to establish an understanding of the need, which is something quite different from what one has the power to establish so far. We are constantly seeing reports that the revenue from the oil and gas sectors is going to be lower than budgeted, and at the latest now that gas revenues are going to fall faster than one has previously understood. So we are facing a shift from an economy that has been largely linked to the harvesting of oil and gas resources in recent years to an economy that is much more similar to the economy in most countries, namely the processing, development, long value chains and the commitment to labour skills in order to exploit the economic situation in a more normal way, for example, such a transformation that finds and others have been and are inside. Other countries are better placed to make these changes now because they face the problems in the past. It can be a scourge for us, unless the understanding of reality changes. The economy must clearly change from an oil economy to a green economy. Investments now have to be made in order for one in 10 to 15 years to be able to obtain revenue from the innovative innovative processes that have to lie around. Therefore, there is a need for more sacrifice in relation to what is the challenge for each of us. Those who have the most must take the greatest burden. It is necessary to invest in a business life among both small and large enterprises in order to increase value creation and to enable all young people with good education to demonstrate it in production life in such a way that they can have safe incomes and thus ensure good stability. Values shall be created before they are allocated.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2353	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4347]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2369	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2378	The tradition of faith is also the year’s discussions in the social security settlement between the government and the Norwegian Pensioners’ Association, the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons, the Cooperation Forum of Disabled People’s Organizations, the Landsorganisationen i Norway – i.e. LO – UNIO, the Central Association of Professional Organisations and the Academics. The majority – the government proposal is therefore the majority vote, all parties except the Advance Party – propose to increase the basic amount by NOK 2760, from NOK 72 881 to NOK 75 641, from 1 May 2010. This means an increase of 3.79 pst. from the same point in time, and the escalation plan has been completed in relation to increasing the specific supplement for single minimum pensioners. This year the Progress Party has chosen to propose a different regulation of the basic amount. It is precisely because of the social security settlement in 2008, where we believe that much of the lag of 0.65 pst. it was not used to regulate the basic amount of population benefit but to increase the special supplement for lone minimum pensioners. It means that all the old-age pensioners at the time they actually got their pensions under them. The Progress Party has said and believes that pensions should be regulated according to wage developments and, of course, financed from the State budget. We have therefore chosen to propose an increase in the basic amount of 4.45 p.m., which means that the new basic amount of the Progress Party proposal would be NOK 76 124, i.e. a further increase in relation to what the majority proposes. In addition, the Progress Party proposes to start with a phasing-out plan in the case of curtailments for married and cohabiting pensioners. We remember the state budget for 2003, when the Progress Party in the negotiations on the state budget with the then Bondevik government, and the Bondevik parties, were able to make a positive contribution to reducing the cut-off from 75 p.m. for today's 85 pst. We also want to remove that abbreviation, so that everyone within three years gets 100 pst. of the basic amount of the pension. We don't see any reason to differentiate this from civil status. In addition, the Progress Party proposes to increase the special supplement for all minimum pensioners, that is to say, too low a rate, up to 2 G. We're very happy that you've now lifted the lone minimum pensioners up to 2 G, but we could imagine that you also lifted all of the others. In reality, since the start of the escalation plan in 2008, the difference between a minimum pensioner who is married to an old age pensioner and a lone minimum pensioner has increased significantly. The difference had become three times greater than it was in 2007. At the time it was about NOK 13 000, now it has passed NOK 30 000 in the difference. The Progress Party also wants to be able to facilitate the start of new discussions – for as I understand it, in the future there will also be some kind of discussion with the social security settlement partners on annual regulations – in order to increase the participation of the organisations representing our social security recipients and pensioners. Today, there is a Norwegian Pensioners' Association that represents all the pensioners. We are therefore promoting a proposal which also seeks to see whether it is possible to achieve a broader composition, where this is being achieved to a greater extent than at present. With this, I allow myself to present the proposals that the Progress Party has in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2395	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2398	The right will vote in favour of the proposed social security adjustments, in line with practice, after agreement has been reached between the government and the social security settlement parties. And we're very pleased that you've now reached the goal of a completed escalation. I do not have so many comments on the settlement or setting beyond this. I note that the Progress Party has its own arrangements in the area of social security. It is tempting to say that it too – as far as I can see – is in line with practice. It has to be okay anyway. However, what may be a little out of the question is whether proposals made in the social security system also have an impact on the state budget. The settlement of the social security settlement by the majority has been made. Although, of course, the Right does not support the government's proposals for budgets in general, we are therefore in agreement with the Government on this matter. The advance party's generous additions to the social security scheme can be summed up to the same amount at the lower edge of 3 billion. kr. It would have been clarifying how these additions should be covered in.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2409	It might be interesting to comment on a debate between the Right and the Advance Party at this point, but I will wait and see if there will be anything more of that. SV is satisfied with the proposal that has been made, and of course supports a negotiated agreement between the parties. I also need to say that we are now completing the escalation plan for the lone minimum pensioners, so that these get an income equal to 2 G. This has been a very important matter for SV and for the government. We reached this agreement in the social security settlement in 2008. At that time, the overhang was used to lift the lowest performances through a fissure layer. The state put on the table the money to raise the benefits of young people and has later financed further. This means that the agreement of pensioners’ organisations at that time – which was a spice layer – has helped to raise billions of dollars into the social security system in the years that followed. This has been money to those pensioners with the worst advice, and I have to say that I'm overrun. I am very happy when I think that some of them with the worst pension have got a lift. We've followed up. The government and the majority have also raised all the other minimum benefits in popular fear at this level. It's been a goal to do that. It's important, because then you set up a minimum level, which is not very high, but at least is significantly above what was just a few years ago. This applies to several of the benefits. I would like to point out in particular that the benefits of single dependants are raised by this. Lonely dependants are a group that absolutely needs a lift. A few days ago, we discussed the related matter, about additional social benefits. It is an old-age pension for people who have not lived for long in Norway and who have therefore not earned rights in popular security. It is true that there are many immigrants, but there are also quite a number of Norwegians who have lived abroad for several years. Doing what the Progress Party wants to do, that is to remove the full benefits – that is what they propose in their programme – means that a significant number of older people who are in a situation where they are unable to support themselves through work, the rest of their life will have to go on social assistance. We supported the Bondevik Government when it presented this proposal. We're going to continue this arrangement, because the only decent way to support people is to secure a fixed social benefit. The framework of this scheme is somewhat stricter than that of minimum pensioners, but in principle it is at the same level as the other schemes. I'm very happy that we've made this promise, that it concerns all of these minimum benefits, and that we provide benefits to people who are in such a situation, and who in any case want to live in Norway for the rest of their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2422	The social security scheme is an important income statement, affecting all those living from social security benefits. Through the year’s social security settlement, pensioners are guaranteed a good income development and a continued increase in purchasing power. It is estimated that the growth of pensioners this year is slightly higher than that of employees. This is due, inter alia, to: that, in line with the Storting guidelines, we have also adjusted for the deviation between the expected and actual wage growth year before. In the social security settlement of the year, the parties, i.e. the country and pensioners, the organisations of disabled persons and workers agree to increase the basic amount by NOK 2760 from 1 May 2010. All pensions and other G-regulated benefits from popular security are thus increasing by 3.79 pst. from the same time. The increase from 2009 to 2010 is 3.77 pst. I also point out that from 1 May this year, the minimum pension for single pensioners is twice the basic amount. The action plan agreed during the social security scheme in 2008 has now been completed and the minimum pensioners have been given a strong boost. The minimum amount of the lump sum corresponding to NOK 119 820 before the social security scheme was settled in 2008. From 1 May 2010, it corresponds to NOK 151 272, an increase of more than 26 pst. This is the money we know will get along well, because it's among this group of pensioners we find those who labor the most financially. Raising the special supplement has been a targeted measure to increase pensions for those who need it the most. Also married couples where both have the minimum pension have received a corresponding increase. I am very pleased that we reached agreement on a new basic amount with all the social security organisations, and will give them the credit for this. I also point out that in good time before the next year's social security settlement, we will meet the organisations' wish for a separate meeting on the process around the annual regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2438	I have only a small question for the last Council of State to address in her statement; she shows that she will have a meeting with those who have been involved in the discussions. As I see it, there are still a number of unresolved questions here, because when it comes to pensions, this is going to be regulated differently in the future than it has been now. At the same time, we also need an annual adjustment of the basic amount, because it covers a number of other benefits. My questions to the Council of State will therefore be: Will clear guidelines be drawn up on how these negotiations are to be conducted and can the Council of State say something about the content of these guidelines? Will it be suggested that there should be real discussions, i.e. real negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2445	As I also pointed out in my speech, the parties during the negotiations we had this year were just concerned that they would have a meeting, a discussion with the state, about how this should happen, when we now – as the representative rightly says – get a change of system. We are now going to have such a meeting where we are just going to hear the parties and have a proper dialogue on how to do this in the future, and it is clear that we need to have some guidelines on how to do these discussions. But I don't want to conclude here and now, because now we're going to have a meeting with the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2450	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4347]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2468	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2477	The proposal by the representatives of the Right-wing Representatives, Mr Røe Isaksen, Mr Mathisen, Mr Flätten and Mr Gundersen addresses issues relating to the practice of classified sick leave in small and medium-sized enterprises. During the committee reading, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have agreed to the proposals. There is a cross-political consensus on the importance of having a good relationship with the labour market when a sick person is ill. We know that longer absences increase the chances of staying out of work. Work and work participation are an essential and supporting pillar of our welfare system. It is therefore good to have a cross-political focus on improving work presence. Then it is only to note that our pathways are distinguished in several important policies in terms of employment policy and the means to have a well-functioning working life. Despite the relatively high levels of absence in Norway — to which the proposers point — we have a high level of production and a predictable and safe working life for the vast majority. The fact that we have come there is closely linked – according to the majority’s view – to good tripartite cooperation and to the fact that the Working Environment Act provides a wider whole: for employees, for employees and for society. The social partners have negotiated a continuation of the IA Agreement. In the new agreement, it is widely agreed that an increased use of classified sick leave is desirable when a worker becomes ill. And it is good that the new agreement has had the overall aim of focusing on the actions that have had a good effect. It's important to use public money in a good way. The evaluation report from the IA work shows that there are some success factors. Basic support for the idea of the IA Agreement, good education of managers and employees, close follow-up by the closest managers, participation by the health care provider and the employee. West-Agder County managed – as the only state – to achieve the sick leave targets in the previous IA agreement, and several municipalities and businesses have reduced sick leave in systematic work over time. Mandal municipality is a good example of that, and Hennig Olsen Is in Kristiansand is another enterprise with good results, also on the other goals. It is easy to forget that the IA Agreement has three objectives: reducing sick leave by 20 p.m., increasing employment of disabled persons and increasing professional activity after 50 years. Proposalers want changes to the Working Environment Act. In several representative proposals, the civil parties have proposed different types of changes to the Working Environment Act. It is difficult to get an overview of the overall employment policy of the minority. But we see the big lines: impairments in employee rights, increased temporary ties and greater pay differentials to provide a more dynamic working life. The majority do not want a fragmented and fragmented working life. The majority want completeness and predictability, security and equal opportunities for all. We believe that the negotiated agreement provides good management tools, as it stands today. If we are to succeed, there must also be organization at the workplace that can make this possible. And my experience is that there are not always legal changes and more regulations. A story from a medium-sized dairy company shows this. The manager had done a registration work over time of all the work that was going on. This was registered and added to a separate folder. It was everything from cleaning machines, developing new procedures and different other tasks. This provided the basis for alternative work in case of a medical application in place. The nurse and the manager started working together from the day the employee went to the doctor. That gave very good results. In view of the fact that the parties now agree to follow up more of what has proved to be effective and the work that the government has signalled it will do to follow up the agreement, the majority proposes that the minority's proposals be annexed to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2494	Let me first thank the proposers, who have made an important proposal. There is an important debate in the wake of the follow-up to the sick absence debate. I note that the previous speaker concluded his post by saying that a number of instruments have now been put in place, that one should do more of what one knows has worked. Then my main question is: Has it worked? When we look at the IA work started in 2001, which lasted until last autumn, it is thus the status quo in terms of development. It's the same sick leave. I also find it interesting to note that sick leave in those companies that have not been part of the IA agreement is lower than in those companies that have IA agreements. It has also been in force all the time — from 2001 to the autumn of 2009. So I think it's important anyway, as the minority also writes in their comments, that is, the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party, that we get tools in place quickly so that we can start work on the reduction of sick leave early. One of the major problems that occurred last time was that the instruments did not come into effect until 2004. Then we also saw a sharp decline in sick leave, but then it gradually rose again from 2005 and 2006, was at a high level in 2007 and 2008 and remained stable high. Back to the question I first asked: Have the measures worked? If they worked optimally, it would also be thought that the reduction achieved in 2005 would keep the level down. It didn't. Therefore, it is very important that these measures are put in place quickly. It's important that it doesn't take long. I note that many of the measures still will not be in place until the summer of 2011, i.e. in a year. Then it's been a year and a half. It is quite a long time in view of the work that should have started very early. I also think it is an important point that for the state as a state, who wants to reduce sick leave, it must be resoundingly irrelevant whether or not the sick jobs of an enterprise that has an IA contract. We can imagine Per and Pål. Per is registered and works in an IA company. Pål is ill-reported, has the same diagnosis and disease, has been ill-reported for just the same time, but works in a company that is not an IA company. The state's costs of being sick are just as high. It must be of equal interest to the state that both of them return to work as quickly as possible and become healthy as possible. That is why I think the proposals from the minority are very important, and they facilitate that flexibility for small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway. Most of them are not connected to the IA agreement, but they can also use the means of graduated search messages in line with the other companies. I think that'll be absolutely crucial and absolutely necessary if you're going to be able to bring down the total sick leave. It's the total sick leave, no matter what item you register it in, which is interesting to get down. That is why, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to raise the proposals where the Progress Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2514	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2517	Sick leave in Norway is too high. There is a broad consensus that we should work out solutions to quickly return the sick to work and therefore reduce sick leave. There are many reasons why this is important. The most important thing is that long-term sick leave pushes people out of regular work and helps to keep up the pressure on social security systems. Among those who spend their medical allowance and are ill-reported for an entire year, it's only about 17 pst. who comes back to work. Work on sick leave challenges in Norway can be read as a description of the agreement reached to minimise them. For eight years we've had an IA agreement, where the goal has been to reduce absence by 20 pst. This target has not been reached in any way. Sick leave is the same today as at the time of the IA agreement in 2001. However, expectations were attached to the government and the government council Bjurstrøm's efforts to get into port with a new IA agreement. After eight years, when the macros have not changed, although there are good single examples, we hoped that this time there would be proposals that could help achieve the goal. What we were presented for at the end of February 2010 was a product that placed something in the middle of between absolutely nothing and almost nothing. Conditions that might help to make structural changes in sick leave work, norms of sick leave, changes in employer funding, changes in the financing of medical work were either forgotten or put on hold. But luckily, one thing came along, namely that classified search messages should be the ordinary form of search messages. The right has addressed and proposed it on a number of occasions, at the latest in the election campaign and then in the state budget procedure in autumn 2009. When a classified search report was also proposed by the government-dedicated expert committee, it was positive that the government chose to oppose it and rather base the proposal in the negotiations with the social partners. So if we can now establish that classified search messages really should be the primary search form, we have come one step further. Employers have a huge responsibility to follow up the sick, and the sick person has to find out that the employer is following up. The employer has a heavy responsibility for organising the job and the sick person has an obligation to work in line with the medical justification given in the doctor’s application. However, in recognising that classified sick leave is a good proposal and an action that will help to maintain the presence of the sick person, it must also be clear that there are companies and jobs in this country that may have problems offering a different job from the normal one for a sick person who needs special care. It might even be easier for a small production company with a few employees if the sick person is 100 pst. health-related, because it will then be easier to find replacement labour. Given that the vast majority of privately-owned jobs in this country are in small or medium-sized enterprises, there are likely to be many enterprises that may have difficulties in doing their job well enough — for the simple reason that the specific tasks of the enterprise are not multiple enough. This is by no means a reflection on what has come out of the IA agreement, which was celebrated in the month of February/March. If this is the case that the IA agreement is intended to have a different purpose than merely to maintain the world's best health pay scheme, a government council should be expected to be somewhat more forward-looking in relation to this. The representative proposal we are discussing today is promoted by the Right and is welcomed by the rest of the opposition in the Committee. We believe that something needs to be opened up in the possibility of hiring between enterprises to give small businesses the same opportunity to facilitate sick people as larger private enterprises or in the public sector. We also ask the government to investigate the possibility of a so-called pool of skills according to a pattern from the Netherlands. In its letter to the Committee commenting on the proposal for a representative, the Council of State indicates that the existing IA sites can serve the same purpose as the proposals for the opening of the lease and the creation of a pool of competences. That's right. However, this does not preclude further progress, for the Council of State should not be satisfied with the impact of these IA sites on the development of overall sick leave. In addition, it is the case that many small and medium-sized enterprises are not affiliated to any of the main concentrations in the labour market or, for that matter, to the IA Agreement. Our position is that these are business and employee choices that are to be protected by ownership as well as the freedom of organisation, and the Right believes that we need to take action also through laws that apply to everyone, not only those that are connected to an IA agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2536	Graded search message is a scheme supported by SV. There has been no dispute about this arrangement, so I'm a little surprised when the representative Graham places such great emphasis on it. It has been little used, but at least I have never been involved in addressing such a scheme, because it can be reasonable. It can both cause a faster return after illness, and it can encourage employers to make arrangements in the past. It's important. The most important thing is to have a working life that creates less sickness and exclusion. We know that there are parts of sick leave that are due to conditions at work, and there may also be a big difference in workplaces as to how easy it is to go there when you have a disease that is not due to conditions at work. So there's a very important key in working life, and in my view, the experience speaks for itself: Employers who take the job of creating a good working environment seriously succeed in reducing sick leave. It's not about shipper's roof, it's about scares, it's about whips at all. It is about working systematically with participation, with confidence and well-being – it seems much better than control, suspicion and coercion. We in SV are pleased that the expert group that gave advice, which was to provide a technical basis for assessing measures against high levels of sick leave, pointed out that the most important measures were to speed up the follow-up of sick people and to facilitate work. We are also pleased that the unprovokedly controversial Swedish proposals, which I do not think are appropriate. However, in the debate that has followed, and also in Mr Graham's speech today, it seems that the Right is a little annoyed that the expert group did not propose a cut in sick pay and not 'as much as more' of the measures that the Right wants. Then, of course, it is clear to the Right to present these proposals. Then we'll have to discuss them and get a little more real debate about that. It also applies to renting and renting and temporaryity, because it is about what the rapporteur said, namely different views on how the working life should be and the rules around it, and different views on whether it is the whip to get people who have health problems back, or whether it is about proper organisation and secure agreements. In the new IA agreement, there is a broad consensus on the increased use of classified sick leave, and the government is also asked to make proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act and, where appropriate, other laws to strengthen the flexibility of small and large enterprises. It is also in the response of the Council of State that work is being done to make this measure available to more people. So using these mechanisms and cooperating between them is also possible today. I'm one of those people who's been to Mandal Municipality. There is a cross-political consensus in that municipality about the 365-day self-notification attempt. But what is important in what they tell us is that they have built trust between employees and employers over many years. They have follow-up, and they have adaptations to the sick person. They have worked actively for a long time to offer alternative work in their own activities. But they actually also have agreements with other companies in order to give the employee the opportunity to try out there if it is difficult to find suitable work in their own business. It is important, but for our part, we believe that these are positive instruments that should be used with intelligence and understanding, and not as a coercive mechanism to move on to people who have difficulties in facilitating. I am absolutely sure that if companies have good deals between themselves in this area, which is not necessarily about embellishment of the provisions on renting, but about the continuation of what is the idea of these IA workplaces, you can find good solutions that will enable the employee to make these choices. If they come to another job as they feel that they are mastering better, I am absolutely sure that most of the employees will choose that job. I would like to stress that the experience with the IA site scheme today is just so that you can test your working ability in other businesses. We must then discuss further how we can do this, but it must be done within safe frameworks and systems that do not weaken the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2551	The proposal calls on the government to promote proposals for amendments to the Labour Environment Act and, where appropriate, other laws aimed at strengthening the flexibility of small and medium-sized enterprises and the ability to practice classified health care. In particular, it should be pointed out that the rules of the Labour Environment Act on rental should be softened and that the government should explore the possibility of establishing a pool of skills in accordance with a pattern from the Netherlands as an instrument of sick leave work. The government, like those who have spoken here today, takes sick leave in Norway very seriously. We also think it's too high. As you know, both from the parties and from the government in the context of the conclusion of a new IA agreement with the corresponding protocol, a broad consensus has been expressed that an increased use of classified sick leave in the case of the employee’s disease is desirable. In order for classified traineeships to be carried out in practice, the employer is required to enable the employee to function in spite of the reduced working capacity. This requires efforts — as far as possible — to facilitate work or provide workers with other appropriate work in the enterprise. Such measures are already compulsory for employers to implement and accept workers, and the rules take account of differences in the nature, size and economy of enterprises. The Protocol underlines the importance of the need for the employer to organise the work of each sick person and the need for the employee to contribute to such organisation. In relation to small enterprises with limited facilities for organising or relocating workers, work in other enterprises could be important measures to keep workers in work. Today’s system of IA sites is just such an offer, where IA companies provide workers with the opportunity to test their working capacity in another establishment. In the established cooperation between the parties, it may be interesting to discuss the possibilities to facilitate the creation of similar arrangements. For the purposes of the Lease provisions of the Lease Act, Leases from enterprises which are not intended to provide rentals, i.e. ordinary activities, are permitted if the employee has permanent employment with the lessor and the lessor engages in discussions with trustees. If an employer wants to hire a partially sick worker, the current legislation thus opens up. In conclusion, it is mentioned that the parties to the IA Agreement and the corresponding Protocol agree that the increased use of classified alerts can be achieved by continuing to work under the measures set out in the negotiated protocol. As regards these measures, a implementation plan has been established during 2010 and the first half of 2011. The measures build, inter alia, on: on the report of the expert group provided in February of this year. In the context of legal work, the rules on penalties against all actors, including employers, workers and health professionals, should also be reviewed. The planned entry into force of any legislative changes resulting from the legislative work is set at 1 July 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2564	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2567	The Council of State said in its speech – and it was probably also emphasised at the press conference that was held in winter, when the package of measures to combat sick leave was presented – that a broader review was to be brought back to the Stortinget and a more detailed explanation of the various instruments was to be made. Now some months have passed since it was said for the first time, without anyone coming here to Stortinget at least and giving some more detailed explanation. Nor have we seen so much about the different instruments. Too many people may think that there's very little happening in this area. You've been negotiated, you've got a protocol that you've put in a drawer, and then you hope the results get better. I hope that's not the case. Could the Council of State be a little concrete in terms of when she expects to come to the Stortinget with a broader review?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2573	First, I would like to point out that on request I have provided Stortinget with a written review of the content of the agreement. The agreement is also set out in the revised national budget. Then I have notified that in connection with the necessary measures to be taken to comply with the agreement, I will inform Stortinget. One of the first things we're going to do is we're going to make changes to the law, for example. in the Working Environment Act and the People's Security Act, as necessary. I will come to Stortinget with very soon, just to make the necessary changes. In addition, a follow-up plan has now been adopted between the parties, with clear objectives and dates in place – including in relation to the entire work to be done in relation to medical practice, which is a very large and demanding task, and in relation to the conversion of the search form in order to obtain a much better follow-up to the work done by doctors. In connection with these things, I will return to Stortinget and inform you about the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2584	The right has been proposing graduated search messages as a rule several times since 2007, and SV has voted this down every time. Those of us who want a shy sick pay scheme will, well, and there's the Right. The vast majority of companies will really live up to their expectations, obligations and obligations. I would like to ask the Council of State: what will the Council of State do to enable small and medium-sized enterprises, including those that are not affiliated to any of the main organisations and do not have an IA agreement, to cooperate with their employees during a sick notification period. So I would also like to ask what effect the IA sites have actually had on combating recruitment for long-term sick leave, and can the Council of State respond to how today's IA site scheme really works, on how many people use it, and on what attitudes the employers and the sick, and possibly Nav, have to the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2591	I would first like to say – and I have also said that – that we must look at the Minutes. This agreement is now in a protocol, and an agreement in the Protocol also applies to companies that do not have an IA agreement. It's a very important principle. This means that the entire work around classified search messages, as the representative says, will also apply to non-IA companies. That is why, and I fully agree with that, it is important to look at how small and medium-sized enterprises can be helped in that work as well. So one of the things we're going to be going in and looking at is how we can help with the organization obligation. Some of the work we have to do with the doctors and Nav is, of course, to encourage them, together with the employment centres – not for the IA companies, you have the right to do so – to help the employer with the organisation obligation. I agree, as I have also shown, that in certain cases this lease-in system, together with helping each other, can work in that context, but then one has to discuss it with the trustees.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2598	The increase in sick leave does not come exactly like the Christmas evening at the diner. There was an increase that you saw coming and had assumed, and we knew that the IA agreement had not worked as intended. Nevertheless, the expression ‘up like a lion and down like a skin trap’ may have rarely fit as well as the government’s handling of this matter. The Prime Minister started high and dark with a speech where he said that now you should turn on every stone and do something about sick leave. And then you had an approx. Three months long seminar where the prime minister withdrew, and then it ended up playing the same old record again. Now, too, many of the measures we will not see until the second half of 2011. I want to ask the Council of State whether she, yes or no, expects or can guarantee that the measures will work until 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2605	Of course, I cannot guarantee that the measures will work until 2013. I don't think anyone here would put on the table action on such a difficult and challenging problem as sick leave is. We have largely followed the advice recommended by the expert group that we set up. Then we have heard what is the answer in many other contexts: Karen's days and cut off access to sick leave – I know it's not in the representative's program now, but that's often what you hear – is the easiest thing. It may, if possible, have some meaning for short-term absence, but it does not solve the huge long-term absence, which I think we should agree on is a major challenge. But we're doing what the expert committee says we can do, and what we know succeeded in 2004. And it's also true, as Robert Eriksson said, that you couldn't keep it down in 2004. It increased again. It shows that we have to keep the pressure up all the time, because this is hard. That's why not the whole point for me is that we're now finishing everything, finishing it. We have to have a pressure all the time, and we're just doing that by having a gradual follow-up to the whole deal. I think that's the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2614	The President sees it as the representative of Røe Isaacen wants another line. In that case, it'll be the last line before Eriksson gets the very last and fifth.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2617	'Tap' is not exactly the word that strikes me as the most striking of the government's attitude in this matter here. It is more likely that you took the bet and then fell down quickly. One of the things the government has not done, which the social partners – the employers’ side – signaled that they were ready to go into, was that the employer should take some more financial responsibility for long-term absence. It didn't make any sense. It's now exposed, shot into the blue. Will the Council of State – or to put it another way – expect a change in funding, which employers have now said they are willing to accept, namely that they take a little more financial responsibility and thus also contribute to reducing sick leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2626	The employer’s side was that under the sickness pay scheme, the employer’s financing could be shifted from the early days of sick leave to later. What you have to look at then is whether or not it leads in total to a direction that we believe will bring down sick leave, actually. I think getting the employer to cover long-term absence is the right way to go, but I wanted to get this in a bigger context, like the government, that you could look at the entire social security fee in terms of how you aged out, i.e. that you got a bigger area to balance the employer's funding. There is agreement in the agreement that one should go further and negotiate about this, but I am very concerned that one has to make sure that no one can now do anything that could become a huge cost to Nav, because it is a great cost to put the whole sick leave system around, without knowing that one is doing the right thing. That's what we're looking at right now. But I miss a little bit of the good ideas from the Right. If the good ideas come along, I'll take them right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2637	We have a Document 8 proposal... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2642	I am glad that we have a government council in Stortinget today that accepts good ideas and wants them on their table. In this context, the Progress Party has actually sent a letter from the farm to the social partners, including to the Minister of Labour, on one model that can be used for employers to take a larger part of the long-term absence bill, without increasing the total cost of the employer. We refer to the letter of reply that was sent from the Council of State, that there is something that you will consider and come back to at a later time, when you are going to go ahead with this until the autumn. Will the Council of State, in the autumn, provide different models of how employers can participate and cover a longer period of long-term absence, which is profit-neutral within the current cost framework? Do we get stuff about it to the Storting, and can we put something about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2651	I underline, as I said, that I think you should be honest with each other here. Good politics is what I'm open to, of course. We now have an agreement that says something about how to look at the employer's co-responsibility. That's what I'm looking at in the first round now, because I'm obliged to do on behalf of the state. I will continue that work, and I will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way on how we follow up that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2657	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4350]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2677	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4350]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2695	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4350]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2711	What we are going to deal with in this case is that the pension granted under the Basic Law Section 75(i) is not based on legal claims, laws or regulations, but is granted on the cheap side of the state, so-called a gift pension. So it's up to Stortingen to decide what kind of pension scheme from the Treasury should be. The scheme currently covers three groups. It is locally added at Norwegian foreign stations; it is former statesmen who have not had membership of the State pension fund because the position was not included, and there are people who have served as officers or perpetrators outside the country’s borders in the period 1940–1945. In addition, there are specific cases where one considers it ‘fair and appropriate’ to grant such a pension. This scheme is intended to be a safety valve, in order to prevent people who should receive Norwegian pensions after a ‘reasonable assessment’ fall outside the scope of this scheme. The nine persons concerned with the pension have either been added to the pension or have left their spouse behind after having been added to their employment at Norwegian foreign stations. There is a joint committee that supports their getting a pension, as it is set on. There are, however, some different comments from the opposition, and also some comments from the Progress Party, which I want to go into here. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have determined that one finds it ‘appropriate’ that the proposition of pensions from the state treasury for the future is something more enlightening than what was the starting point this time. It's the Storting that's going to decide this type of pension, and then it's important that the Storting also gets enough information to make a decision. The Party of Progress notes that there is a significant use of discretion and has the objective criterion to adhere to when such a pension is to be granted. I'm referring here to question No. 5 from the Advocate General, on the issue of when it is ‘appropriate and fair’ to grant a pension to Group 3. So there is a demand that it be ‘appropriate and fair’, and my question was when the criterion was met. The answer from the Council of State is: ‘Retirement of Group 3 government funds shall relate to specific cases where it is reasonable to grant such a pension because it is considered appropriate and fair.’;» It is obvious that this answer shows that one does not have an objectively measurable criterion for the award of such a pension, and that everything is based on subjective judgement. The Party of Progress assumes that there are many different perceptions of when considering something as ‘appropriate and fair’ and therefore believes that in the long term, some objective criteria should be developed for when such a pension can be awarded. The Party also notes that the pension granted for Group 1 is locally added at Norwegian foreign stations, is based on subjective criteria and will be determined only on departure. We are of the opinion that such a pension in favour should be agreed upon upon upon accession and formulated as part of the written contract of employment. Such a scheme would provide workers with justice and custody both for themselves and for the family. We therefore hope that the Department will issue such a scheme and present it to the Stortinget on an appropriate occasion. The Progress Party notes that the pension paid by the State Treasury to Norwegian ambassadors abroad is not paid any source tax. There is no explanation as to why these are not required to pay source taxes, but the Progress Party is against source taxes, so we think it's good. However, we expect a non-discrimination in this case, so that the government also proposes that anyone who lives abroad and receives a pension from the Norwegian State should not pay a source tax for the future. Otherwise, there is a joint committee that is behind the setting in this case, so it would be a little problematic when it comes to the decision itself, but the comments are something different.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2740	I have some comments on the comment on the Progress Party regarding objective and subjective criteria for obtaining a pension under the Basic Law § 75 (i). I am thinking of a system in which you should have a safety valve in order to avoid that those who, according to reasonable judgement, should be entitled to a pension fall outside the scope of the scheme. The Progress Party called for objective criteria. I perceive that the objective criteria are that one is either a local employee, former government employee or has served as a command. And then there are special cases. Then I see that the Progress Party emphasises that there are no objective criteria. I wonder if they can tell us what objective criteria they see can be on the basis of here, when there is an overall assessment and a reasonable assessment of whether a pension should be granted. There should be some objective criteria, says the Progress Party. So if they could elaborate it a little bit, it would be nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2747	The government has put forward a proposal for a decision to raise pensions from the state fund. The pension of the state funds is based on the Basic Law § 75 (i) and the legislation has evolved through the practice of the Storting. The annual proposal concerns the temporary allowable pensions of the Treasury made by the Ministry to be approved by the Stortinget. It is up to Stortinget to decide how the pension scheme of the state fund should be. The pension is not based on legal claims, law or regulation, but is granted by the state on a cheap basis, a gift pension. The information is in line with what has been given in previous propositions. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party say that it may be appropriate that the proposition for the future be somewhat more informative than was the case this time. The members of the Progress Party believe that more objective criteria should be provided for the admission of pensions to the group where such pensions are considered appropriate and reasonable. I have noticed these points of view, and will take them with me in relation to the work on next year's proposition. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the Committee supports the Government's proposal for a decision on the pension from the State Treasury.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2756	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for having noted and registered the comments that we wanted a little more information about the setting next year, and we thought it was very good. We believe that when the Storting should assess this and make decisions, it is important that one is adequately informed, and that one gets sufficient information. For the sake of order, after we have received an answer to these questions, we also believe that the case is now sufficiently informed that a decision can be reached on the matter. When it comes to what I was into – and the representative Lydvo was into – about objective criteria, the Progress Party has not been involved in proceedings and discussions. We leave this to the department and ask them to evaluate it. We believe that if there is only subjective criterion, and there is no sustainable objective criterion for how to allocate this, there can be easily discrimination, so that the same case is treated differently at different foreign stations in the world. So we still mean that we have to work on this, but we can't start to sue and discuss this from the pulpit. It must be looked at and evaluated by the department. As I said, I am pleased that the Council of State has taken note of the comments we have made, and that they will be taken back to the department and laid the foundations for next year's treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2765	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4351]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2781	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2790	The royal crab is an introduced species, and therefore it is important to keep an eye on it. It is also an important proposal promoted by the representatives here, as the problems surrounding the king crab have recently been most topical. It is not that one should draw the parallel and say that it is typical of the Progress Party to bring about an immigration debate, whether it is under or above water, but here they have an important debate going on. It has also been the case that the administrative regime has been frequently discussed, and this has changed recently. However, it is important to come up with points of view as to how the case has been. The Royal Crab is, as I said, an introduced species, which was released by the Russians in the 1960s, and it began to be exploited commercially in Finnmark early in the 1990s. For Finnmark, this has become an important fishing activity. However, traditional fisheries are also so important for Finnmark that it is important to follow developments closely. The two-zone administration regime has been successful in several ways. It has succeeded in building up a brand on the king crab, in developing a fleet that can fish it, in developing industries that can process it, and in developing a market machine to sell this crab. The situation is that Finnmark now has an established industry that receives good prices for its products. So this picture, measured against the first few years when you had an invasion and the fishermen had to stop their traditional fishing because of the crab, is better. In addition, a disembarkation fish was established outside the commercial zone to aim to stop the spread of crab further west and south. The four-year crab fishing had a first-hand turnover of 126 million. kr. It is undoubtedly an important fishery. The management model adopted at St.meld. No Therefore, 40 for 2006–2007 have been successfully seen in the light of what was then known. The right agrees that the Fisheries Directorate’s proposal for the management model provides a simpler management regime, but will point out that the expansion of the commercial area, to several times its original size, assumes that quotas are large enough to limit the spread. It's, I'll repeat, an introduced species, and you don't want an uncontrolled spread of it. Now, when we see that we have a decrease in the quota size of 24 pst, you can't in any way say that you take into account the Storting decision to exercise a precautionary principle. According to the market, it will also be possible to trade less crabs than the present shell size of 137 mm. That gives us another chance to increase our quota. The sad side of this adventure is that researcher Jan Sundet has shown clear findings of damaged bilge fauna in Varangerfjord, and points out that these are due to the introduction of royal crabs. It is appropriate to point out that this knowledge should be part of the consultation basis for the new king crab management model. More and more researchers have worked on the crab, which makes us know a lot, a lot more than yesterday. It has been shown to be a large predator and eats everything that comes in its way, including fish eggs. The fishermen on the Finnmark coast are concerned, and I think it is right when Nina Mikkelsen at the Marine Research Institute takes a look at what the crab eats. It is documented that compared to other fish, it eats significant amounts of eggs from solders, hazes and roes. So you can fear an imbalance in the ecosystem. There is reason to fear that this could go beyond the recruitment of several major species of fish. It is therefore alarming to note that no increased research efforts have been announced to ensure that sufficient knowledge of the matter is acquired. In short, the view of the Right is that the new management model is good. It takes into account the possibility of exercising control over fisheries, which is important. For the treatment of St.meld. No 40 demanded that the royal crab be managed in accordance with the precautionary principle. This requirement requires that, in our opinion, quotas should be significantly increased, and all the unknown factors mean that research efforts need to be intensified in order to gain an in-depth knowledge of the damage to the seabed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2816	First of all, I would like to say that I think it is great that we have had many good fisheries policy debates in this Chamber, like this one, dealing with the royal crab. In 2007, the Storting adopted a communication on the management of the royal crab. That policy is firm, and it is not through a Document No. The 8--proposal that the big lines in the administration of the royal crab are added. It is worth noting that the government in this message proposes an evaluation of the Royal Cancer Administration after five years. The proposers are concerned, inter alia, with: of the proposal on the new regulatory provisions. This publisher of adjusted borders has also been consulted, with the aim of managing stocks in the regulated area in a way that ensures activity and employment in the area. Stability and long-term profitability shall be found in the regulated catch. It is to achieve this that adjustments to the emission range limits have now been adopted. As I said, the regulations have now been adopted, and I expect the Council of State to explain that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2827	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, who presented the content in a good and thorough manner – in fact, too much of what the Progress Party stands for. That's why I just want to spend a little bit of time on a couple of small comments. One is that there is no doubt that many feel tricked by what they now see related to the regulation of the royal crab fish, or the migration of the chamois crab. Then we heard that the case rapporteur suggested immigration policy with the Advancement Party, and then I can replicate that if there is one thing that might be more difficult than getting Cretan out of the country, then it is well enough to get control of the royal crab along the coast. So we'll see what takes the longest time. In the case of St.meld. No 40, there was a broad consensus on what had to do with the precautionary principle. The problem is that the regulation currently being introduced is not in line with the precautionary principle. Instead of increasing the catch, the northern border is being moved. By moving the northern border, you can actually risk the catch going down, and taking out too little royal crab. What we are sadly also seeing is an ominous signal on, is that it is moving westward and southward more than what is desirable. That's why you were going to get out that part of the royal crab tribe that went there. I also question whether the Council of State and the Directorate actually have the right to move that limit now – that is to say change the regulation – because in this case it was given that this should be done in a five-year perspective. That is to say, this case is not subject to the annual regulations. I look forward to the state council commenting on it in the perspective of giving a signal that you are going to evaluate in five years, and then you come after a very short time and you change the rules for fishing itself. I think that's actually going to be the subject of a lot of debate in the time to come. We also see that several people who have actually believed in bulking and government in this case have gone to the purchase of boats and equipment and have chosen to bet on this. We have seen farms that have built up activities related to desimation fishing. They're probably feeling pretty tricked today. Many are going to lose a lot of money. It has already been reported that more people are struggling financially and are going to wear even more. Yes, even Innovation Norway has been involved in financing some of these things, i.e. the government's own body. It will be exciting to follow this development further. I am a little uncertain whether the rapporteur promoted the proposal we have in the vote. If not, I'll sign it. Then I just have to say that I am of course disappointed with the result, but I think the last word has not been said in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2844	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to. The President is somewhat uncertain whether the rapporteur is really in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2849	No, the right is not on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2854	That's right. But now, at least, the proposal has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2857	The royal crab is an introduced species that has been known in Norwegian waters for over 30 years. The stock represents an administrative challenge, but it is also a resource for some coastal communities in eastern Finland. The aim is to limit the further spread of the king crab in Norwegian port areas and to ensure the lowest possible population of the king crab outside the quotad area east of 26o east. The government has now finally come to regulate the capture of royal crabs. The king crab quotas are reduced by 24 pst. And as has been said, this worries the fishermen. In St.meld. No 40 for 2006–2007, Royal Cancer Management, a five-year management plan is underpinned. Many local fishermen and businesses have invested and expected a withdrawal corresponding to the withdrawals in 2008 and 2009. The industry therefore finds it difficult to deal with a management system that changes already after two years. The Christian People's Party had the following joint comment with the Left in the context of the handling of the big business: ‘If the administration regime of the royal crab outlines this big message, and to which the members of the Committee of the Christian People's Party and the Left largely support it, are unable to prevent the further spread of the royal crab, these members will call for rapid action to limit growth and keep the population down.’ The proposers refer to the Marine Research Institute's report Coast and Aquaculture 2009, which states that Varangerfjorden has had a significant reduction both in the number of species and in the size of individual species. It turns out that the royal crab can survive in a further temperature range, which indicates that it can establish itself in areas further south and further north than previously assumed. It is a fact that the crab has had a significant and dramatic effect on the bottom fauna of Varangerfjord. The measurements before 1994 — before the invasion of the king crab — compared with today, show that there have been major changes in the fauna and major changes in the ecosystem of Varangerfjord. It's obvious that the crab's been doing a lot of work. The number of species in the ecosystem has been greatly reduced. Once upon a time, there were significant amounts of deposits and individuals of bivalve molluscs, sea stars, cockatoos and crowballs. Today, these are almost absent in Varangerfjord. The sediment profiles show very little animals in the sediment. Before 1994, Bøkfjorden was full of small animals and oxygen. The sediment had a bright color. Today, the sediment color is black. that there is no oxygen and no molluscs. The royal crab is at the top of the food chain, and part of the food is rye biscuits, pieces of stone, flutters, eggs, crustaceans and molluscs. It seems quite clear that the crab does more damage than you assumed before. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal to increase the commercial fishing of the royal crab in order to reduce the population to a sustainable level. The royal crab, which is a foreign species in our waters, has spread rapidly along the Finnish coast. It is a resource, but it also represents major problems for net fishermen and for the seabed. Therefore, significant increases in the catches of royal crab are desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2880	It's an important question that's being raised here today. The royal crab is a forward-looking species in our fauna, and there is a great risk of negative effects on the ecosystem. The size has previously entered to limit the spread of royal crabs and ensure the lowest possible population of the king crab outside the regulated area east of 26o east. SV is concerned about the effects of the king crab on the ecosystem. That's why we're busy keeping the files as low as possible outside the regulated areas. This is not about managing a viable stock. Here it's about taxing the population as hard as possible, and that means we have to pick up both small and large crabs. It's important that we follow up that it's done, and it's important that those in charge of the Royal Cancer Legacy take care that we have a really good de-fishing outside the regulated areas. The majority has previously agreed that we should have an evaluation after five years, and SV believes that both as we administer the regime that has been set up, and when we are going to have a proper review after five years, we should base the precautionary principle, so that we do not get a development in the ecosystem that we cannot tolerate.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2892	After the introduction of the king crab from the Pacific to the Kola Peninsula for a period from the 1960s and until 1978, the population has increased sharply, and the ecological effects of this have not yet been fully understood. The royal crab's bloom arouses both enthusiasm and despair. Fishing for king crabs brings great income, while much of the traditional fish has had to give way. The entry of the royal crab affects the quantity conditions and the biomass of a number of species. This will also flourish in the food network, and its long-term impact on the ecosystem is too early to say. What is certain is that king crabs cause damage to catches and tools for traditional line and yarn fishing. One shall also bear in mind that the royal crab is classified as a high risk of inherent biodiversity in the Norwegian blacklist in the Art Database. In line with the Royal Cancer Management Communication, the overall objective is to limit the further spread of royal crab in Norwegian sea areas and to ensure the lowest possible population of royal crabs outside a quotad catchment area in eastern Finland. The grossing-up message also defined a target to manage stocks within the quota area in a way that facilitates business and employment in this area. It is not to hide that it is a challenge that the population on the Russian side is up to 15 times larger than on the Norwegian side, and that the Russians manage the royal crab as a resource throughout their seas. It will continuously immigrate king crabs westwards from Russian waters, and this is also part of the background to the strategy of a regulated area in eastern Finland. It is important to stress that it is not an objective to have a population of royal crabs outside the quota area that provides for a profitable catch over time. Outside the regulated area, there must be an objective of minimising the presence of royal crabs. The Fisheries Directorate has recently completed the year’s consultation round, where the adjustment of the limits of the quota area has been proposed, in the light of the two-part administration of the king crab. It is now up to the Ministry of Fisheries to address the issue of quota size and any adjustment to the limits of the regulated area. There is further reason to note that the Council of State has warned that in this context it will also assess new research results related to the ecosystem effects of the royal crab.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2912	We are now in the situation that we are moving beyond the agreed time for the morning meeting. If the President could have reason to believe that there will not be a lot of three-minute posts after the Council of State – and the President finds reason to believe – the President is prepared to end the proceedings on this matter. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2919	The royal crab is a foreign species in Norwegian waters, and it poses some very specific administrative challenges. At least one thing is certain: it's come to stay. The overall objective of the administration — and that the Storting has been behind — is to limit further spread and ensure the lowest possible population of royal crabs outside a quotad catchment area in eastern Finland. In this area the crab shall be managed in a manner that provides a basis for activity. It means a sustainable harvest. This is a difficult balance, and there's still a lot we don't know about the royal crab and the consequences of it coming wandering into Norwegian waters. Today’s proposal for a representative is to increase the commercial fishing of royal crabs in order to reduce the population to a sustainable level. As you know, on Monday I decided to regulate the king crab fish for the next season. That decision is based on a comprehensive consultation process and, in my opinion, takes good account of the considerations expressed in the Committee's setting up. For the coming season, a quota of 900 tonnes of royal crabs has been set and the quota area has been extended northwards, and the entire Porsangerfjord has been integrated into this area. These elements are interrelated and shall ensure that the objectives of king crab management are achieved. At the same time, it has been important for me to ensure a regulatory arrangement that minimises the possibilities for cheating, and I don't think we'll see the same conditions this year that were reported last year. The limit in the Porsangerfjord is deleted because the assumptions for such a limit are no longer present. The king crab is also established in the inner part of the fjord, and in the free catch it has been mainly only the large commercial crabs that are taxed. The tax pressure in the Porsangerfjord may therefore be maintained at an equal level in the regulated catch. As in the Porsangerfjord, there is no reason to believe that an adjustment of the northern border will make it more difficult to limit the further spread of the population. The spread is mainly to the west along the coast, and the free catch should therefore be channelled into and intensified in the areas west of North Cape. In order to further limit this spread, an extermination fishing with leased vessels west of North Cape has now been carried out in our time. This is still ongoing, and the reports so far indicate that this fish has a good effect. I therefore want to implement a similar scheme for next year. Although we have a clear goal of limiting the further spread of the king crab, I believe it is important that we have a quota area at the same time. The background is to ensure a well-functioning reception structure and to maintain the markets that are absolutely essential for there to be no interest whatsoever in participating in the free catch. Nor should we forget the great importance that the king crab has had for fishermen and the fishing industry in East Finland. At the same time, this year we have received new research results from Varangerfjord, which shows a decline in the biomass of bilgo animals and a structural change in the sediments, which is probably due to the royal crab. These results were mentioned in the Quota Council of the Marine Research Institute as of November 2009. However, it is too early for marine scientists to draw clear conclusions about the ecosystem effects of the king crab now. However, we will continue these studies. We need to understand the significance of possible consequences, and evaluate them in a wider context, taking into account also the economic operators and local communities. In the news of royal crabs, it was announced that the administration would be evaluated after five years. This is confirmed, and in the light of the experiences of the season we are now going into, a broad evaluation will be carried out. The results will be submitted to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2942	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2945	I'll be brief, President. My questions are as follows: 1: What extra effort is now being made by the Council of State and the Government to investigate this, so that we can get the broad knowledge that the Council of State itself has addressed? I haven't seen any budgets where there are earmarked funds for this. I'm asking, how much is the increase in the earmarked funds for this project? Question 2: Has a department carried out a legal assessment related to the changes that are now being made? In St.meld. No 40 for 2006-2007 would be invested from a five-year perspective, while now, already early in the period, the conditions for that decision are being changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2954	As far as the question of research is concerned, we already have a relatively high level of effort. The question is how do we set that up? I've had dialogue with the Marine Research Institute. There are also a number of other institutions that are researching this. You have to look at a larger area, several geographical areas, as far as the royal crab's behavior is concerned. With regard to the issue that was also raised in the main posts of the representative, which I believe are related to the home to make the changes we are now making, the big news is that there will be annual adjustments in the quota area in the light of the experience gained along the way. Since the controls showed so much fraud in the autumn of 2009, it was absolutely necessary to adjust these limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2961	Finnmark is naturally a popular state, and the next crab that plans to move there is the snow crab. It's not an introduced species, it has natural substance in the sea there, but it's spreading now. It's surrounded by the same frightful mixed mystic as the king crab, because we know very little about it. My question to the Council of State is whether there are clear plans to increase research on it as well, so that when it comes a little better prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2968	Now it's like all the advice we get in terms of management is based on multi-stock management, so I'm assuming that when the Marine Research Institute and other researchers to advise on management, the snow crab is also included in those surveys and assessments. It's an important principle to be able to implement multi-stock management that you just see the ecosystem as a whole, and I'm assuming that the snow crab is also included here. It's kind of funny around some table with what's going to happen when the snow crab meets the king crab. We will certainly have an answer to that, and in my dialogue with the Institute of Marine Research I would ask them to have a special look at that species.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e2977	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. The size is now paused. [[Fotation, see page 4351]] New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3013	We have to deal with the position of the presidency on compensation for large-scale representatives and government members. Since 1996, we have had a practice in Stortingen that a payroll commission is making proposals to adjust the remuneration in Stortingen. I quote from their mandate: ‘The Commission’s task under the decision of the Storting is to determine, with the consent of the Storting, the annual remuneration of the representatives and members of the Government.’ It has been common practice since 1996 that the Commission's proposal is what will be the decision of the Grand Duchy. As there is a split position in the case, I find the basis to explain a little about the proposal that is now available. If we compare ourselves to other groups in society – and this representative seems to be the natural thing to do – we should not have a wage trend beyond what they get. Compared with the government statement, which ended with a 2010 salary increase framework of 3.3 pst., the supplement that the payroll commission has now adopted, and which we recommend we give consent to, is equivalent to an increase of 2.72 pst. A paycheck is technically composed, by overhanging, slipping — by many factors. The type of factors affect the remuneration of the grossing-up representatives to a much lower extent than they do in many other wage settlements. For the sake of order, I would just like to make it clear that when, in the minority proposal, which will probably be taken up later, it says that one “finds it unnatural that the remuneration of gagning representatives increases more than this” – with reference to 3.3 pst. – then there is a wrong basis for comparison. If one takes the krone amount proposed by the minority, the comparable annual salary increase in 2010 will be 2.32 pst. – i.e. in relation to what the majority proposes, which is an increase of 2.72 pst. With that in mind, I would like to recommend that the majority vote be adopted. For information only, I can say that the presidency has gone into these calculations thoroughly, and one of the things we have examined is the development of the new system that was introduced in 1996 and until today. If a calculated percentage change for remuneration – with the change currently proposed and the vote of the majority will be adopted – the change for remuneration for large-scale representatives will have increased by 81 pst. during the period from 1996, while the average annual salary for all social groups has increased by 89.1 pst. – i.e. something more than the development has been for Stortinget. But to repeat it, the increase for this year – as the proposed impact date is 1 May – is 2,72 p.m., which is comparable to the country’s 3.3 p.m. settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3037	The world has been hit by a severe financial crisis lately. Many people have had to leave the farm and land, and many have lost their jobs. It started in the United States, where greedy directors were far too nervous and ran a financial game that eventually cost a lot of people, as I said, houses and homes and jobs. The domino effect of this was, and is, frightening. A few people's greed has put an entire world in a crisis that has been absolutely necessary to deal with. Norway is based on values other than this. The bearer of the Norwegian welfare model is that everyone should have equal opportunities. Therefore, differences in income between people should be minimised. Balancing the differences is an important element of welfare state support. It's a value in itself, and it gives a harmonious society. We are now at a time when wages and salaries in the private and public sectors have been in the media daily. There's been a strike, there's a strike, and there's been a notified lockout in some industries. Conflicts are big, power struggles and wage developments are tough. It sees everyone following this in the media. The staging representatives are outside this system. At least I've never seen a giant representative strike for a few thousand copies here or there. The men and women of the great thing are not there. We are briefly told in the unique position that we determine our wages. It does not just require moderation; it requires great humility – for voters, for taxpayers and for strikers out there. But that's not how it's going to be today. What I see, on the other hand, is that everyone, minus SV's representatives, today will vote to increase their salary by over NOK 27 000 per person. years, and it comes from an annual salary that is already almost NOK 700000. Then, of course, you could imagine that someone would think it was right to set up the pay because it is so difficult to be a staging representative – so demanding, brutal. I am tempted to quote what Mr. Celius says to his wife, Lavinia, in Nils Kjær's comedy "The Happy Choice": "But think of the big one itself, think of the long, bright months when we sit on the big one. Lavinia, Lavinia – it’s good to sit there’. And then he goes on to say, «But this: to go out and come in quite simply and directly and of course and sit down and hear, or not hear, and magazines in documents and read, or not read, and to know with all the infallible self-consciousness that what I do or don't do is significant and, in the given case, can become decisive – that, even if you are a woman, you could understand, that, it's all going on. That's life in the power.' So on Stortinget it's good to be – and in government, if I have to add it too. We're here because we've chosen it ourselves. Nevertheless, an increase of NOK 27200 is currently being adopted for the aggregate representatives. The compensation of state councils is proposed to be increased by NOK 40 200 and the Prime Minister by NOK 49 500. There are two reasons why SV believes that we should show greater accuracy when setting our own salary. One is that we already have a good salary of almost 700,000 kroner, and everything else comes in addition. The other is that we are leaders who should go ahead, show soberness and accountability. The combination of this means that on behalf of SV I have proposed lower remuneration in the presidency. I do not conceal that in the SV's group there are representatives who believe that we have such a high salary that we should actually freeze our salary. SV has therefore considered that we should adopt a much more moderate wage trend for ourselves than the one contained in the proposal for a decision. I recommend Stortinget to go ahead as good leaders, and take up my own suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3074	The representative Akhtar Chaudhry has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4351]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3092	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3108	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3124	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3140	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3156	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3172	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3188	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3204	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3220	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3237	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3253	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3269	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3285	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3301	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3317	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3333	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3349	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3365	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3381	No one has asked for the floor. The president asks us to follow the usual fire alarm routines and listen to the speakers. [[(Votering, see page 4352) (Fire alarm is running.)]] We'll finish the meeting. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 18.20. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18.42.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3410	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each batch and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3417	The government's goal was that the Santas should own their own land. The land fasteners directive was adopted to facilitate a lower redemption price and fastening charge by regulating the fastening charge according to the development of the consumer price index. This instruction no longer applies to the Fund of the Information Service as a result of the Supreme Court judgment. The background to the case under consideration in the Stortinget today is a proposal from the representatives of the local authorities Bente Thorsen, Dagrun Eriksen, Svein Harberg and Trine Skei Grande, where they ask the government to follow immediately the judgment of the Supreme Court in the Santa Claus case with a proposal to repeal Section 5, second paragraph, of the Information Society Fund Act, and on the one hand, to replace the fund of the Information Society in full for the loss suffered by the Fund as a result of the Santa Claus directive. It can be read on the Ministry’s website that all pending redemption cases will be halted as a result of the judgment, and that the government is in the process of assessing the consequences of the Supreme Court judgment. The Ministry now reviews the issues raised by the judgment and also assesses the question of compensation to the Information Service Fund. This is a procedure supported by the majority of Stortinget. The matter is not as simple as you can get the impression when you read the proposal for a representative. The case and the judgment raise several legally complex questions and issues. It is therefore important that the matter be thoroughly examined before the Stortinget takes its decision. It seems quite easy for the Stortinget to make such a decision – almost above the table – without a proper case proposal. I have no other comments on this matter and will advise the representatives of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left to vote against the proposal, i.e. vote against I and II of the representative motion 164 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3430	The proposals we are dealing with today should have been quite unnecessary, because if the government's parties on the Storting had the ability to deal with the Constitution and listen to the advice a sheep from other people than themselves, the Storting would have avoided the degrading judgment that was passed over the attempt of the government to break the Constitution and block the foundation of the Information Society. This is the second time this government has shared an important constitutional issue, and it is obvious that the government's credibility in such matters has been seriously grounded — perhaps more serious than any government in modern times. The case has had a wide range of treatments in Stortinget, ranging from interpellations to the initiative of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to consult the Supreme Court under the Basic Law § 83. State Council Trond Giske held his ear and could tell that the Law Department had spoken, so then they got recognized legal professors and lawyers to believe what they wanted. There was no need for warnings. In more detail, all the legal environments in this country that gave their opinion on the matter, except for the Ministry of Justice's own law department, said that the law was contrary to the Constitution § 106. The Supreme Court judgment is a clear sign that the Supreme Court takes the Constitution seriously, and it is, in principle, very important that the Supreme Court does not allow a simple majority to exceed the constitutional provisions required by a two-thirds majority to change. The judgment of the Court of First Instance shall, in so far as it is a preliminary sentence in the proceedings, constitute a judgment of the Court of First Instance. What remains, and what this proposal is about, is to clean up the government's façade. I had the pleasure of being the rapporteur for the law. The opposition pointed out in very profound notes how wrong this would be. An overall opposition believed that the amendment of the law would be contrary to the Constitution. The opposition gave the government parties the opportunity to moderate their starting point. Nevertheless, the Council of State stood above the legal competence of the minority. It was the Law Department's conclusion that had to be taken into account. The Councils of State said, among other things:\t\t You ‘I wonder who has the most political leadership in his constitutional interpretation of the Progress Party and the Ministry of Justice’. I guess one might say that the Supreme Court has also concluded at that point. With regard to the actual proposal of an overall opposition, it is really unnecessary to amend the law, because the provision is suspended by the Supreme Court. But it's important to have a law that expresses what is the actual legal state. Therefore, it is important to correct this error in the Information Service Fund Act. There is in fact reason to be amazed that the government itself has not taken an initiative already. It is also worth noting that the government has been silent in the progress of the clearing work after this government phase. There is reason to believe that it is now facing some challenges in this regard. But it must be clear that after the Supreme Court judgment, the State is obliged to ensure that the Information Society's Fund is in the same position for the future as it did before the illegal decision was taken by the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. It is also worth wondering about the very weak progress of the government. It cannot be accepted that the government is dealing with this in such a way that the Information Society's fund or others will have to sue the State again in order to obtain their legitimate compensation. I would like to hear from the Council of State later today whether the Council of State considers what is wise of her predecessors to force through the sale of land attached from the Information Society's fund despite the ongoing legal process. I am asking the Council of State to comment in its statement on whether she – in the light of the postwar clock – should have listened to the proposal of the Progress Party to draw the anchor after the verdict in Oslo District Court, where the state went on a deadly defeat. Now you know that the loss of the state in the Supreme Court — if possible — is even more deadly. Has the Council of State been a wise state council in these matters, in its own opinion? Sometimes it might be okay with some self-esteem from this pulpit. With that, I will address the proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3457	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3460	I thank you for the opportunity to deal with the matter now before we split up for the summer. Then I have to point out that two times in the last year something has happened very seriously, and that is that the Supreme Court has had to set aside majority decisions in the Stortinget. This applies in the tax case against the shipowners, and it concerns this case completely without comparison, but it is very worrying that so happens. In this case, as the previous speaker had in mind, there were many clear warnings, and there have been many occasions to turn around, but the then Minister of Church Trond Giske was reasonably clear on the rejection. All warnings were rejected. I would like to refer from the debate in November 2007, in an inter-pelling debate on this, where a predictor – not uncommonly – Inge Wohnning was quite clear in the invitation to Giske and said about the legality of the instructions: ‘I shall be willing at any time to make a bet with the Council of State — if he has such an opinion — on the outcome of such a trial. That outcome is going to be of little joy to the Government. Therefore, it will be my firm advice to the Council of State and the Government to follow the mountain-wet rule to turn in time — possibly dig down.’ When I heard the main inauguration from the government parties from the pulpit here, I guess I had a feeling that this very last one was what they might want to do. So to the background that we raised this matter now before the holiday. The Storting has not received a single signal that this case would be followed up quickly and efficiently. The Christian People's Party has asked the Minister of Justice what they wanted to do with this matter, and was told that the Minister of the Church had got the case. Also when it comes to initiating the follow-up of the compensation, it has been asked, and the Minister of the Church said yes, we are looking at this, and we are in ongoing dialogue with the Information Society Fund. The information agency's fund wrote this week's letter to the minister and wondered what was going on in the case. It is not entirely related to ‘running dialogue’. We are inviting you today to take some important principle decisions. It is true that the previous speaker said that, in principle, the law has been repealed by the Supreme Court. But we think it is important that the Storting says that this is being followed up and that the text is being adjusted, and that is why we want to give this support to the government immediately. As far as compensation is concerned, that's the same thing -- that's the principle we're inviting to take a stand here. We believe it is important to say that the Information Service's fund should be replaced in full. Yes, in the setting of the case of the amendment to the law to which it was referred, it is summarised as follows: ‘The Ministry stresses in its proposal that it is a prerequisite that the economy of the Norwegian Church should not be weakened as a result of the instructions. The OVF shall benefit the Norwegian Church on its legal basis.’.» It cannot mean anything but compensation in full. This is an important and, of course, a matter. I thought for a long time that Truls Wickholm's posts were beginning to support the proposal, but it was clear that today one should be in favour and vote against – a strange way to do so. It is important to give a clear signal to the Information Service Fund that they will receive full compensation. This fund, like other funds, notices the times we're in now. They have huge tasks ahead of them, they need security to get this money, and they need it to progress in the work to be done, and here we do not take a position on the sum, but on the principle. I am very excited about what the Council of State will now come and promise us in this matter. Finally, I would like to ask that the proposals be voted on point-by-point.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3492	Then the president has registered that wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3495	It is interesting to hear that the government parties now realize that this matter is not simple. In the previous debates in Stortinget on the Information Society's fund, the government parties have given a completely different impression – this was simple, this was easy, it was possible to implement, and it was just done. It also means that if the ‘easy’ – as the government parties have so far given the impression when they have dealt with the Information Society’s fund – should really apply, then it should be easy to go for the proposals that are on the table today. Because it's about re-establishing a bomb that the government has done in relation to the fact that a majority government is the sovereign of the Constitution. This is no doubt – as the representative Anders Anundsen also said – that the instructions are no longer applicable, that they are neglected, but it is an honor to the Stortinget to have a law that is correct and up to date, and it is therefore appropriate to do so. Then we can hear from the representative, Mr Wickholm, that the information strategy towards Stortinget is constantly getting new ways from this government. Now we can read on the Ministry's website how the government intends to handle the case and the Supreme Court judgment of the Information Society Fund. In the media we can read that they see this proposal as ‘game and speckle from the opposition’. We are making a proposal today for two reasons. One is that case-law must be consistent with our laws. The second is that there will be a budget for the harvest, where I believe that the Storting must give a clear signal that there is a clear expectation that the loss incurred by the fund will be paid by the government. Of course, we want to land cheap plots. Of course, we want to get the government to meet their campaign promises to landowners who wanted to get these plots at a low price. But when such election vows are to be fulfilled, the Christian People's Party believes that the government must take the bill itself and not let the Church and the Information Society fund pay for these election vows. I also want to say in this regard – knowing that debates about the Information Society's Fund are often used in later contexts – that it is important for the Christian People's Party to state that ownership, who owns the Information Society's fund, and what the Fund can be used for, has really strengthened itself in the Church's favor. So I hope that the recommendation made by the representative of Wickholm to his co-representatives from the government parties is not followed, that we vote in favour of the proposal, I and II, which is on the table, that we correct the injustice that has been done with regard to the Information Society's fund, and that the money promised by the government parties to the Santa Claus parties, of their own fund and not by others'.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3508	The size is currently examining a proposal for a representative in the context of the Supreme Court judgment of 12 May of this year, where the majority knew the Santa Claus Directive to the extent that it imposes on the Information Society’s fund the regulation of fast fees and the redemption of fast rooms under the terms of the instructions. The government is assessing the consequences of the Supreme Court judgment. In the proposal for a representative, the Stortinget asks the government to follow immediately the judgment of the Supreme Court by proposing to repeal the second paragraph of Section 5 of the Information Society Fund Act. This provision is the basis for the government to give an instruction setting out specific provisions on redemption and fixing fees for Residential fasteners. The judgment of the Supreme Court means, as stated, that the fastening instruction is known to be invalid in relation to the information service fund. The fund's tax regulations and redemptions are now in line with the principles of the Law on Landing and the fastening agreements concluded. As the nullity effect follows directly from the judgment of the Supreme Court, it is not immediately necessary to repeal neither the Santa Claus Directive nor the second paragraph of Section 5 of the OVF Act as a result of the judgment. In its II proposal, the government is asked to replace the OVF in full for the financial loss incurred by the fund as a result of the invalid instructions. The loss resulting from the solutions of fasteners is well on the way and is evident to the extent that the proposal has been prepared. In addition to the loss resulting from the redemption of fasteners, the OVF for some fasteners has charged lower fasteners charges in 2009 and 2010 than the fee agreed in the fasteners agreement. The question of future charging regulations for fasteners that have been reduced after 1 January 2009 in accordance with the rules of the instruction raises complex legal issues. Any adjustment of the deregulated fastening charges will also have an impact on future redemption amounts determined by the law on land fastenings according to the fastening charge. The Ministry now reviews these issues and also assesses the question of compensation for the Information Service Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3519	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3522	Unfortunately, the majority of the government's decision in the case of a change in the law on the Santa Claus has caused great economic losses to the Church. The information service's fund is an important source of funding for the Norwegian Church. This is the Church's only free means, and must be kept in a proper manner. There was no need for warnings from the opposition to obtain a judgment first on whether the decision taken in the Storting was valid by a limited majority. This majority turned the deaf ear and brought the decision into force, on the grounds that a judgment was eventually given to them. We now expect the government to take action as soon as possible to comply with the Supreme Court judgment and pay the Information Service's fund for the money it is entitled to. In addition, the government’s decision has resulted in a difficult situation for itself, even in relation to the landowners who have used the invalid instruction decision. But how the government will solve the challenges it faces with regard to the individual who was misled into relying on the invalid decision must become a matter between the state and the individual. The most important thing now is that the government replaces the Church’s loss after it – again – invalid festivities, puts money into this in the State budget for 2011, and soon comes to the Stortinget with a proposal to repeal the second paragraph of Section 5 of the Information Society Fund Act. It will be much clearer for posterity if it is lifted in order to comply with the Supreme Court judgment. That's what this case is about. If the parties to the government are to use the legal problems they themselves have created in the case as an excuse not to go in to comply with the judgment, it is not, as I said, what is to be dealt with today. In today's meeting, Stortinget deals with the matter of complying with the Supreme Court judgment, and it would be strange if the government parties did not agree to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3530	The next speaker is Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, who is also the chairman of the Committee. The President is sorry, Mr. Ine M. Eriksen Soreide is the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee now. In the previous period, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide was the head of the Church, Education and Research Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3535	I thank you for that, and of course it's nice to participate in the debate with my old committeemates again. The Council of State, Rigmor Aasrud, said in its introduction that the consequences of this judgment are being assessed. There is only one consequence of this judgment, and it is that the government has introduced an unconstitutional Santa Claus directive and amended Section 5 of the OVF Act in order to enable it to implement the Santa Claus directive. There is therefore one possible consequence of the decision in the Supreme Court, and that is that we need to amend the second paragraph of Section 5 of the Information Society Fund Act. So if you don't, you keep a lawless paragraph. There was no need for warnings against doing what the government has now done. There was no lack of advice, there was no lack of legal expertise. But the government chose to trump through a law decision, use its majority, and thus act unconstitutional. One should be aware that the Storting has had this matter for many rounds. Finally, the Church employers' and interested parties' association led the case to the Tingrätt, where the State then completely lost the case. The state then had to appeal directly to the Supreme Court, where it also lost the case. I think it is important to note that this case, like the shipping tax case, shows something very important. It shows that the Supreme Court gives a clear message to the government that it cannot use, and abuse, its majority to trample through lawless laws in the Grand Duchy. So it shows that power doesn't trump right. There's a notified government that has to take with it. We were all very clear that if the amendment to the second paragraph of Section 5 of the OVF Act was to be implemented, it required a constitutional change according to the rules of Section 112 of the Basic Law, which is completely different and requires a completely different majority from the usual rules on legal amendment. This government knew very well that they had no chance of getting it through in the Storting, neither in time nor when it was about the majority. That is why they chose the procedure they have now taken. Then I register, and I think that's interesting, that the Council of State says that they're now going to evaluate the different sides of any compensation. I was a seaman at the church meeting where former councillor Trond Giske was very clear that the church would possibly have its losses replaced if it turned out to be an incorrect Santa Claus directive. The proposal on the amendment of Section 5 of the OVF Act states that the Ministry stresses that it is a prerequisite that the economy of the Norwegian Church should not be weakened as a result of the instruction. So that means that after the Supreme Court has known the instructions unconstitutional, the government goes back two steps and no longer promises compensation to the Church, but says that this is something we should consider. There is a strange development in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3552	There is one thing that pleases me at the posts held by the Council of State and the representative of Wickholm from the Workers' Party, and that is that the tone is a little different now than the tone former Minister of the Church Giske has had in all matters about the Information Society's fund in this room earlier. That's a good sign. But then, of course, I know, not least based on experience from earlier today when the Control and Constitutional Committee dealt with a matter related to the encryption of health records, that it is very far inside government councils to admit that they should perhaps do something different. I noticed that the Council of State from this pulpit did not comment on any of the challenges I directly gave to the Council of State from this pulpit. I really think the Council of State should do that, because it's a rather special situation the size has now ended up in. The government has actually misled the Storting to take a lawless decision, and that's quite dramatic. Therefore, I could still imagine how the Council of State today assesses how wise it was of her predecessors to force through the sale of plots attached from the Information Society's fund, despite the ongoing legal process. Wouldn't it have been smart to slow down, stop and say that we have to wait and see the outcome, instead of making trouble for all the Santas they've made trouble for now? Perhaps she should also comment on whether it had been smart and not exposed to the State for the further loss suffered by the State as a result of the fact that the anchor after the Oslo District Court judgment was not pulled. I could imagine challenging the Council of States to say a few words about these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3563	There's something very interesting about the issues we've been dealing with in the Church lately, and that's how busy government parties and government councils are of the minority. It's very important. And then you actually forget to get – mostly – what the majority's conclusion is, whether it's the Church Meeting or the Supreme Court, and what it's really all about. I also have to say that what the Council of State said, is the very least one can say after having received the Supreme Court against himself. It's okay not to apologize and complain, we're going to have to tolerate a majority government feeling too good for that. But at least you realize that here you've been wrong once and twice, you actually owe it to those who've lost that way to the government. Then I see that the Council of State should have the floor. I would like to ask, since they are now on the Ministry's website saying that you are working on, in dialogue, etc., how to follow up the Supreme Court judgment. We heard here that the Information Service's fund has sent a letter to the Council of State on how this should be followed up, and I would like to know if the government intends to follow this up in dialogue with the Information Service's fund. Or is it a new dictatorship to be presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3572	As I said in my post, there should be no doubt that the government takes note of the majority that was in the Supreme Court. And we're also going to make the necessary changes to the law, but there's no need to make changes to the law immediately to change the circumstances of the Supreme Court. The Santa Claus instruction is invalid in relation to the Fund of the Information Service, and the redemptions from the OVF now follow the ordinary rules laid down in the Law on Landings. So there's a lot of people here that problem that we don't immediately come up with a completely new bill. But there are, as I said in my post, several relationships that need to be clarified, and on which we have to spend some time. I'm concerned that we're now going to get things done right, so we can get this case out of the world and get the necessary creations done. So these are the fees that were deregulated as a result of the Santa Claus directive, and how to deal with it in relation to the Law on Landing. We're working on that, and once we've clarified it, of course, we're also going to have a dialogue with those involved, once we've clarified the legal basis. For those who are going to redeem their plots, there is no doubt about what legal status is now in force. 12 May is the time of intersection and those who redeem their plots afterwards are allowed to do so in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Landing. Then ask Anundsen from the Advance Party if it was right to appeal. I actually believe that it was right to appeal. We have now received a Supreme Court judgment in this case. Then it's clear what the basis is. I record that there were different views also in the Supreme Court in this case, but that the majority stated that this was not in accordance with the way that the Supreme Court believes you should interpret the Constitution. Of course, we take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3583	Just a few brief comments. First of all, I suggested in my first post that it might seem that the government parties wanted to dig themselves down. Now it seems that they have done so, as they are absent in this debate. And I understand that it must be difficult, after the recommendation of the Labour Party representative at the beginning here, to argue why one should vote against what one is for. Then I registered that the Council of State said in its last post that she took note that the Supreme Court had said what they had said, and that there was a need for legislative change, but not now. In her first post, she said that there was no need for legislative change, because the Supreme Court had lifted the law. So when you go into this law today – I was there yesterday looking for the Stortinget – you see that this section is there. That's why we think it's right to take the Supreme Court judgment seriously, that the Storting shows that this is what we're following. We take it as a matter, we remove this section, and it's out of the law – no matter what happens to the replacement. That is why we have asked for a point-by-point vote. This can be a wise decision today and say that now we do. I expect the government parties to take a new round on this and think through that now we signal to people that we take the Supreme Court seriously, we remove this from the law, and then it's in place. I would like to ask again what will make you vote against the principle of fully substituting the Information Society's fund. There's a lot of discussion about the sums. The sums that are in the judgment are just a piece of it. It's far higher sums, perhaps up against doubles, which are the reality of the compensation that the Information Society's fund believes they are right. Is it so to understand that someone then has to look for the intention not to support this today? Is it so that one in the government parties has a clear desire to reduce this as much as possible, and not to replace it in full?
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3596	This has been in many ways an elucidating but also a very funny debate. When the Council of State says in its last speech that there are several issues that need to be clarified before implementing a change in the law, it is completely incomprehensible. There is only one thing that needs to be done, and that is to remove the second paragraph of Section 5 of the Information Society Fund Act. It's just as simple as inserting into the law the term that makes the bonding instruction possible. This is done with a simple handle, it's a simple operation. It does not require an offence, precisely because the only reason why the second paragraph of Section 5 was created was to make a derogation from the first paragraph. The first paragraph of Section 5 of the Information Society Fund Act reads: «The property and capital of the fund cannot be given up or used up.» So you just wanted to give away or spend the fund's capital. That's why you had to make a new term in the paragraph, so you could do it. When the Supreme Court has now so clearly and unambiguously known this decision and this text of the law, contrary to the Basic Law § 106, the government has no choice but to remove the other paragraphs of the paragraph. Something else would be completely strange. And it's an as simple operation as it was for the government to put the term in. But this, of course, needs to be distinguished from the discussion on compensation and compensation. That is precisely why the proposal now has two parts to vote on separately. To me, there is a mystery about how the government, at Rigmor Aasrud, might think that there are many questions to consider before restoring Section 5 of the Law on the Information Society's Fund to the original text, as it was before the non-constitutional part came in, precisely because the Supreme Court has known the decision unconstitutional. It is also important to note that the Supreme Court is quite clear that the result does not matter whether it is the instruction or whether it is the law that is invalid. It is unconstitutional as it is now interpreted, and as it is now used. This is an uncomplicated legal issue, a question that is so straightforward that the government parties here and now should be able to vote in favour of the proposal to immediately correct what now appears to be a non-legislative text. So it's quite obvious that both the instruction and the paragraph are out of play with the Supreme Court judgment. This is precisely why it seems even more strange that government parties cannot do what needs to be done: take the consequence of the Supreme Court judgment. I can't believe that it was going to be more to figure out, that it would be more to assess. The Constitution says one thing, the verdict says one thing, and the second paragraph of Section 5 of the Law on the Information Society's Fund says something quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3618	I have sat and thought to myself, Is the government going to follow up the Supreme Court judgment? Is it actually intended to repeal the second paragraph of Section 5 of the Information Society Fund Act? Then you should not give a signal to vote against you and create doubts as to whether you really intend to follow the judgment of the Supreme Court, even if there was a minority who said something else. We're not removing the law over the table, we're not removing the term over the table. We ask the government to promote the proposal that is to be made so that the paragraph becomes in line with what the Supreme Court has said will be in line with the Constitution. When I hear from the line of argument for II, that it is a little difficult to get out of the legal error into which the invalid instruction has led the government, I would remind you that it was part of the opposition that warned against introducing that instruction so easily, and believe that it would be so simple. I also have to ask about II: Does the government intend to compensate for the loss that the fund has received, on the basis of the invalid instructions? There should also be no indication now that one does not wish to compensate for the financial loss suffered by the fund as a result of the invalid instructions. If the government parties disagree with both I and II today, that means that they either vote against something they are in favour of, because someone else has made proposals, or they are now with them and raise doubts as to whether they actually intend to settle the law, so that it will be in accordance with the Constitution, and whether they intend to compensate for the loss that the fund has received. Here it should be a unanimous decision in respect of the Constitution and in respect of the judgment of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3631	Anders Anundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3634	The representative of the Seven said that this government in church affairs has a very strong attachment to listening to the minority. And I'm a little bit stated simply when the Council of State is standing here and saying that there was a minority in the Supreme Court as well. The judgment of the Supreme Court is final. It was 9–4, it's a crushing sentence on this government's policy regarding the Information Society's fund and the Santa Claus directive – crushing! You can't talk away from that. I think it is nice that we do not unanimously adopt both I and II today. You are an obvious and natural consequence of the Supreme Court judgment. II is really the same, and confirms the principle that the OVF should be replaced in full – not in the form of fixed amounts, but in the form of confirmations. I would challenge the Council of State on the following: if she does not wish to recommend her representatives in this Chamber to vote in favour of these proposals, the Council of State from this pulpit may say: a) there will be a legislative amendment, and b) there will be full compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3643	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1 on the supplementary agenda. [[Food, see page 4352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3652	The size should then vote in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3747	The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3763	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the promotion of the announced Government Ownership Notice by the spring of 2011 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3794	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 4 June 2010: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for additional appropriations to the police as a result of additional costs relating to the enforcement of the new legislation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e3825	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e4157	The President draws attention to the fact that it is the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that are behind the vote, and the President therefore assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e4173	During the debate, the representative Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of those behind Roman numeral II, requested that this be rejected. If no one objects, the President will comply with the request. – The President considers this to be a censure, and the second sentence is not addressed to voting and thus lapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e4184	It is the Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that are behind the vote, and the President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e4215	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 4-8, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Progress Party. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4-8, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to explore the possibility of setting up a Norwegian capital management environment in the light of the investments made through the State pension fund abroad. This can preferably be done by requiring a non-resident management company to establish or extend its Norwegian business.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish an investment fund aimed at investing in sustainable enterprises and projects in the energy and environmental sectors, with a particular focus on innovative and environmentally friendly energy technologies. Through its activities, the Fund must underpin Norway’s position as an energy nation.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is also asked, in the context of the next evaluation of the State pension fund abroad, to carry out an investigation into alternative ways of organising the fund, including separating the management of the SPU from the Bank of Norway.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present a case where SPU splits into two by 95 pst. be managed according to. passive index strategy and that the remaining 5 pst. be managed according to. active management strategy. [[5 pst.]] Active part current practice, while the second part of the fund is split into two different index funds. [[95 p.m.]] One is subject to NBIM, while the other is being tendered. As SPU's property portfolio is built up to 5 pst. by the fund, the index managed part is reduced from 95 pst. up to 90 pst.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the enterprises currently excluded from the State pension fund foreign investment portfolio on the basis of rigorous practices in the ethical guidelines.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e4268	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked by the government to instruct the Bank of Norway to enter into working arrangements with its administrators for the future, which also include downside bonuses. This shall also apply to external AIFMs with which NBIM agrees.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e4283	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the next evaluation of the State pension fund abroad, to ensure that an investigation is also carried out of alternative ways of organising the fund, including the question of whether it should continue to be one or more funds.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e4298	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to establish an investment fund aimed at investing in companies and projects in poor countries and emerging markets, with the objective of a total investment framework of at least 10 billion. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e4362	During the debate, Mr Eriksson put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the creation of a system that more closely respects the principle that future negotiations on the regulation of pension rights will be conducted between pensioners’ organisations and social security organisations on the one hand and the government on the other’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to the Stortinget for the removal of the curtailment of the basic pension of married/cohabitant pensioners in connection with the State budget for 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e5577	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose amendments to the Labour Environment Act and, where appropriate, other laws, which strengthen the flexibility of small and medium-sized enterprises and the ability to practise the general rule of classified health care.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to explore the possibility of establishing a pool of skills in accordance with a pattern from the Netherlands as an instrument of sick leave.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e5615	There is a vote on the proposal by Robert Eriksson, on behalf of the Progress Party, tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 27 May 2010: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary changes in order to convert pension funds earned before 2010 into old-age pensions and not to derogate from the best-year rule.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e5634	There is a vote on the proposal by Robert Eriksson, on behalf of the Progress Party, tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 27 May 2010: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the establishment in the law of the rules governing the procedure for the calculation of the standard of living so that any changes must be decided by the Stortinge.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e5888	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an open government to increase the commercial fishing of royal crabs, in order to reduce the population to a sustainable level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e5919	During the debate, Mr Chaudhry put forward the following proposals: ‘The reduction agrees to the fixing of the following allowances with effect from 1 May 2010: Storting representatives NOK719 900p. yearMembers of the Government1 065 400per. yearMinister of State1 310 300per. years.’» Alternatively, there is a vote between the proposal and the presidential vote. The Presidency had cancelled: The majority agrees to the fixing of the following allowances with effect from 1 May 2010: UKL 724 100p. yearMembers of the Government1 071 600per. yearMinistry of State1 317 900per. years
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e6017	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e6022	There are then 98 votes in favour and 7 votes against.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e6029	The size then goes to voting in the case no. 19–37. All of these matters are the second reading of the law. In order to save time, if the Storting does not have strong objections to it, the President will now undertake an overall vote on these matters. So we're going to vote on these things together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There are no proposals for comment on the legislative acts as from Act No 68 until Act No 86. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e6066	The representative Heikki Holmås has asked for the floor to speak on referral No. 418.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e6069	We've noticed that record number. 418 have been proposed to the Judicial Committee. Asylum matters are mainly dealt with in the Foreign Affairs Directorate and partly dealt with by the police. Nothing is happening in this case during the summer, but I suggest that we send it to the Municipal and Administrative Committee, and then we will have to decide for the autumn whether it should be dealt with together with other matters that deal with the whole reorganisation of the UDI and the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e6074	The President proposes that referral No. 418 shall be forwarded to the Judicial Committee, which shall submit its draft opinion to the local and management committee for an opinion before the vote is taken. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e6101	We will then vote on the proposal in document 8:164 S for 2009-2010. The proposers have here, at the representative of Svein Harberg, asked for separate voting on the two Roman numerals to be found in document 8:164 S for 2009–2010. The proposal reads as follows: «In Stortinget, the Government immediately requests that the Supreme Court’s judgment be followed by proposing to repeal the second paragraph of Section 5 of the Information Society Fund Act.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e6121	The proposal goes on to say: «II The Government asks the Government to replace the Information Service's fund in full for the financial loss incurred by the Fund as a result of the invalid instructions.»
ParlaMint-NO_2010-06-17.ana.ud1717e6137	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
